ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the other committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the transmission of the proposal to the Committee on Finance. The debate and proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 9 October 2020. The debate on the motion of censure put to Mrs Kiuru by the Minister for Family Affairs and Basic Services is also allowed, together with the agenda of 7 and 22 November. on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u2	Madam President! Although we are talking about next year's budget, I would like to start with a special recognition for last week, which also underlines the importance of this section. The Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the UN World Food Programme. It is an important recognition of the work to combat hunger and a reminder of the basics. Hunger numbs people and drives them around. It's killing societies. Sustainable food production is the cornerstone of peace. In Finland, too, we have been reminded of the importance of our own food production and the security of supply with the corona. It is therefore important that the budget also provides strong frameworks for sustainable agriculture and the management and use of natural resources, and it does so in a long-term and predictable way. This is extremely important, especially for young people, for future investment and for investment in the sector. The overall national budget for agriculture and rural development, which was secured by the budget, must be raised first. A total of EUR 7.78 billion has been earmarked for national funding for the next seven years, which corresponds more or less to the current level. However, the amounts of the euro in the EU's financing solution have not yet been exported to the spending limits, as they will only survive in the supplementary budget in November. By then, we have received more detailed country-specific information on funding from the Commission. However, it is already known at this stage that EU funding will bring more euros to Finland, especially in the rural development programme. Thus, the share of EU funding will increase by around 6% compared to the current period. The whole will also be complemented by an EU recovery instrument, of which Finland's rural development will account for approximately EUR 210 million. So when we look at this funding as a whole, both national and European, we can say that we have a truly strong economic framework to implement an ambitious and competitive agricultural policy. This is our future programming period: responsible and competitive food from the best raw materials in the world, while we do it with climate wisdom and animal welfare. Korona has brought security of supply to everyone's lips, both in Europe and in Finland. I am pleased that this package of funding provides the means to strengthen the crisis resilience of our entire food system. Mr President! As a government, we have also agreed on the full compensation of Veikkaus' fall, which is an extremely important issue for the horse industry. After compensation, then, we can pay for horse training and horse sports this year and at this year's level. Horse breeding and sport are an industry that also requires a stable financial perspective in order to be able to plan farming and breeding activities on a long-term basis. Furthermore, the horse sector does not have a buffer from the merger of the gaming companies at its disposal, but a reduction in the result will have a direct impact on the grants paid. Compensation was therefore indeed a necessary and important decision to ensure the protection of all horse breeding and sport activities. The budget debate also agreed on the continuation of the village trade grant, which now has a budget of EUR 2 million. I welcome this because the feedback to the pilot project launched during the Sipilä Government has been positive and the aid has been actively sought. The results of the grant are also promising, and with this increase in appropriations more and more village shops will be able to apply for this support. Village shops are an essential part of rural services and their vitality. Mr President! Finally, a few important withdrawals from the natural resource economy: The natural resources section continues to invest in the good management and sustainable use of forests. We all know that Finland lives in forests. The importance of forests for the national economy is very strong and can also be calculated in such a way that each hit used brings EUR 200 to the national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u3	And now I ask those representatives who want to use the reply to the question, to stand up and press the V button from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u4	Mr President! We have a common agricultural policy in the EU. We have to rely partly on EU aid. The expert hearing revealed the harsh fact that today the producer receives a salary of EUR 5 per day, leaving EUR 10700 in place after the calculation of the average earnings of 50000 holdings. It's a harsh reality. In the EU, Finland respects animal welfare and regulations very well, which is a great thing. Climate and environmental issues are very ambitious at the moment for the EU as a whole and especially for Finland. In the future, if Finland does everything that has now been promised in environmental and climate matters, it is likely that other EU countries will not do this. What happens on the market then? Finland is outnumbered. I would like to ask the Minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u5	Mr President! In the spring, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has sent a guide to the local Leader group. According to the application instructions, the population of the operating area must be at least 20,000 inhabitants. There is no such minimum population limit in European Union legislation. The demands of the Ministry affect the future of the seven Leader groups. For example, the Yhyres Development Association in Ostrobothnia faces the merger as part of a larger group. Actors fear that decision-making will run away from their territory. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has argued that groups should be reduced, inter alia, by decreasing rural development funds. Now, however, the financial allocation seems to even increase in the next programming period. Mr President! Locality is one of the key principles of Leader, a very central principle. The Ministry has also stated that Leader groups need to be small enough to make locality a reality. I would like to ask the Minister if you could look at this ministry's EU guidelines.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u6	And again, let me remind you that one minute is a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u7	Mr President! All in all, a good whole. It warms me that this programme for the recovery of endangered and migratory fish continues. The Natural Resources Centre has received more research and development money. The European Forest Institute, which is extremely important for North Karelia and Finland, is in the sphere of funding and is not called into question. And then the new working element is the new support system for afforestation, which can increase forest mass, forest volume and sink. In fact, when we have a valid forest policy report and forestry strategy and now a European forestry strategy and biodiversity programme and are open-cutting initiatives and the forestry industry and Russian timber imports are constantly discussing, would the place now also have to be revised nationally, or are these documents now relevant future documents for Finnish forestry policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u8	Madam President! Yes, in agriculture, you have to have this big picture in your possession and have that long-term view of the farmers there. Yes, the corona showed us the importance of having food security in order, self-sufficiency in order, and thus security of supply in order. And when we talk about this EU policy, which Mrs Elomaa is criticising here, I think, on the contrary, that the long-term approach to Finnish agricultural policy was brought about by this solution which now came from that EU table. In fact, I would like to ask Minister Levä how you can see the long-term nature of this agriculture now, both in terms of agriculture and in terms of rural funding, for the next programming period. Can farmers now count on the same levels of support, and can farmers be confident that this work will be long-term and can also be rewarded for the work that has been done?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u9	Madam President! Thank you, Minister Leppä, for the introduction. I would like to ask what part of the Government Programme’s entry ‘to curb the over-negotiating role of sparetrades by means of legislativeactions,other than privateabel products’. Have I understood correctly that your purpose is to cut down on shop-based products, which are less expensive? If so, are you aware, Mr Government, that the vast majority of consumers are entering the market because of price? I would also like to mention that for a large number of small and medium-sized food businesses, trade marks are the road to growth, both for their own brands and for their own branded products. The trade marks offer domestic producers and suppliers an opportunity to grow. My question is: how is this record of the government programme mentioned above, or have you given this up? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u10	Madam President! Agriculture plays an important role in the fight against climate change. At the same time as we need to reduce emissions, we can also bind coal in agriculture by, for example, making changes to soil treatment, increasing plant cover, growing more plant species at the same time or even by crop rotation. At the same time, these can even improve growth capacity and productivity, and many farmers have already shown interest in these new methods. The desire to have more knowledge and know-how and also incentives in our system has also come from farmers. Consumers also want to make climate-resistant food choices, which you can already see on the shelves of the store. For example, the consumption of oats is on the rise. In the budget, money has been earmarked for future years, or for the coming year, for climate action in the land use sector. I would ask the Minister what this money will be spent on in the coming year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u11	Mr President! It is important that the conditions for food production are taken care of in Finland even in these difficult times, and fortunately we are doing this in this Chamber by a large majority, I believe. We have also had good discussions with Minister Leppa on how to turn the improvement of the state of the Baltic Sea into a common advantage, as it were, in the interests of the nutrient cycle within Finland, instead of the Tunisian import phosphorus, which would make more and more progress. And when we know that, in this particular case, the recycling of nutrients from animal manure concentrations in processed form is the key to preventing the accumulation of new over-nutrition in water bodies, I would have asked the Minister how this budget is now responding to this cry. After all, the Government Programme has a few hundred million euros for this nutrient cycle and water protection. Is it now enough to support farms that give up manure so that we actually get manure?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u12	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for the presentation, and now that consultations have already been started on the state budget side, farmers at least feel very satisfied, but of course there are always the pains for which money is needed and, above all, measures. Korona has taught us how important it is for agriculture to be self-sufficient and also know-how, and that is something we will certainly have to work on. But then there's this problem that keeps getting messages. These include white cheek geese, cormorants, wolves, and even reindeer. I now ask the Minister: now that the reindeer husbandry law has come before us, how do you think we can make farmers happy in the north-east?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u13	Madam Speaker! The World Food Programme is considered to be one of the most effective means of managing humanitarian crises in the UN, and most of their needs are specifically related to food security. In the other year, Mr Laukkanen and I had the opportunity to host when David Beasley, Director of the World Food Programme, visited Parliament, and I can agree with Minister Leppa's assessment that the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the right party this time. The Government’s decision on security of supply in 2018 states that ‘the startingpoints for security of supply are the international markets, the diverse industrial and other productive base, the stable public economy and the competitive national Covid-19 challenges the pillars of our security of supply. Security of supply and self-sufficiency must be maintained. How do you see, Minister Leppä, now that both South Ostrobothnia and South Ostrobothnia?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u14	Madam President! Minister Leppä gave a good introduction and raised some positive points. I ask, however, that when the year changes and spring 21 comes and we are still expected to have a corona crisis, how will we ensure the availability of seasonal workers next spring? Would it be time for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to contact the Ministry for the preparation and payment of earnings-related daily allowance so that those industrial workers who are unfortunately laid off next spring could take part in seasonal work so that they could take part in the earnings-related daily allowance, so that in this area of lower wages there would be enough domestic workers who are not at least chained up by travel restrictions? Now would be the time to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u15	Mr President! This time, exceptionally, agricultural support levels have been very much secured and much good has been achieved in terms of investment within the framework of Makera and it has been ensured that it will continue to be available there. Thank you, Minister Lehlä, for this very good work for farmers. It warms the mind of this €2 million village trade subsidy, which will help keep these multi-service points alive in the rural area and serve the remote worker who has run away to work in the countryside. In particular, this research funding here warms my mind, and in connection with it the question to the Minister: This carbon sequestration capacity of peatlands has been funded by research to the Ruukki Research Institute in Northern Ostrobothnia. Are we now funding similar research activities in this budget as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u16	Honorable Speaker! This budget, the budget for the coming year, supports sustainable wood production by 5 or 3 million people, or actually gives a mandate of 56 million people, with an employment impact of 1,900 person-years. That is why it is good that this employment effect has also been mentioned, which is, after all, about 30,000 person-years. But if the entire support mechanism were changed to turn this into some kind of capital income reduction mechanism, for example, by increasing the forest reduction base or someone like that when these treatments are done in the forest? Is there any way we can figure this out? This would reduce controls, reduce the administrative burden, and this mandate would never run out. So I suggest we do a study on this. Amend this whole mechanism
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u17	Mr President! The past year has been exceptional for agriculture and forestry, just as the Minister said. The highly uncertain spring situation created great uncertainty for operators in agriculture, berry farms and forestry. The importance of our security of supply has been stressed by the Koronapandem and the importance of food security and food safety has, fortunately, played an important role in many discussions. This increase must now also be made a reality. The viability of agriculture is a long-standing major concern. The EUR 5 per day mentioned by representative Elomaa was EUR 5 per hour, but I think this is the sub-budgetation allowance for Finns. This budget is of the same size as the previous one, but the enabling administration mentioned in the budget book needs its own attention. Could such an enabling regime also help farmers? We need to make this possible for every administrative sector in practice. Minister, what are the practical steps to be taken to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u18	Mr President! The Minister said that Finland lives in the forest. I'm sure it is. Recently, there has been quite a lot of discussion about whether the Finnish forest industry is profitable and whether it is able to compete. Of course, there is also the availability of wood, and there is also uncertainty about the wood coming from Russia. And then, of course, it is important that this domestic tree can be used, that there is certainty that it will be obtained, and also that it will be effectively out of the forest. Now that the European Parliament has adopted this new forestry strategy, on which Petri Sarvamaa was preparing a report, I would like to ask the Minister whether, in this forestry strategy, this economic, social and ecological aspect of forestry is now in balance in such a way that we can be confident that we will continue to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u19	Irade the Talman! Om man ska söka något positivt i denna kris kan vi konstatera att uppskattningen för inhemsk matproduktion har ökat. Att vara självförsörsjände inom matproduktionen är någonting som är otroligt viktigt i kristider. Men trots krisen har inte en let kris försvunnit någonstans: det är lönsamhetskrisen. Därför är det viktigt att arbetet för att uppnå en rättvisare fördelning av inkomsterna måste fortsätta enligt planeter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u20	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski raised the very important issue of seasonal agricultural labour if and when the pandemic continues. Many people must have been surprised this year at the fragility of our country's security of supply, precisely in terms of the labour force in primary production. Earlier this year, the Parliament decided to facilitate access to the work of asylum seekers and even those who have received a negative asylum decision, inter alia by removing the issue. These legislative changes were justified precisely by the lack of labour in agriculture. This government has often stressed the importance of facts and research in decision-making. I therefore assume that you have followed the effects of these changes very closely. Could you tell us here how many people involved in these legislative changes have been employed in agriculture during the summer and autumn? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u21	Mr President! Good treatment of animals is a matter of civilisation, and the reform of the Animal Welfare Act has been under preparation for ten years, and I am now asking whether the government already has an agreement on the content of the law and whether we will soon receive a statement from that bill that this new welfare law for animals will not become a similar undertaking to that of the social welfare reform. There have been worrying messages from the government that there is not yet an agreement on a number of key elements of the law. My question is: Is there an agreement that farrowing cages and asparagus will end up in history during the transitional period and together with producers? Is there an agreement on the registration of cats and dogs and their registration in the law? Finns are a very animal-loving people, and we cannot consider that pets receive the treatment that they now receive, for example in Finland, that some 20,000 cats per year are still rejected or killed as unwanted. These are just examples of why we need that new legislation, and I hope that the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u22	On this point, I will give two more replies, and then the Minister. First of all, Mr Viitanen and then Mr Pirttilahti.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u23	Madam President! I too would have asked about this animal welfare law: what is its timetable at the moment? And of course it is, Minister, so that it becomes progressive and forward-looking, respecting animal welfare and ethical values, because I am absolutely sure that every single one of us has a competitive edge that we treat our animals well? For example, there must be a basic basis for this legislation to safeguard the dignity of animals as a being of self-worth, not just as an instrument or property, but also to agree on these details in the most ambitious way possible. I myself am also very concerned about the role of pets, and we felt it was very important that, for example, animal welfare organisations, such as SEY, now lifted the animals during the week.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u24	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. Here the basic agricultural support policy is quite right. Thank you, too, for the fact that the negotiations in the EU were still going well. And this village trade subsidy is, as has just been mentioned, very important for rural areas. But then this kind of citizen's question: Where is Kemera support? It's not in this book, is it? It's not in this book. I understand that, but the Minister can explain where it is hidden here, because we still have about a million hectares of unmanaged forest areas. We very much need those forms of support in rural areas. Each of us is a climate hero and is doing important work there. All right, this wasteland funding and the financing of their stands. One more thing, young people and 4H. Once again, the $250,000 has been taken from here, and we have another hard job here in Parliament to get it back. It's important work. Among other things, this seedling act, this climate action that the 4H-young people are doing, is important
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u25	Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u26	Mr President! Thank you for the good questions and the good comments. A few answers to this point. Let's start with this traditional form of profitability. This concern about the poor profitability of agriculture is all in common. One reason for this is that we are now in a position to offer a long-term view that aid funding will remain, a small amount of it will grow, but it alone will not be enough to guarantee profitability, but we need a functioning market. More of you referred to the market and therefore to the creation of a fair market in which there are no prohibited commercial practices and so on — that is what we shall do. Parliament will shortly receive a proposal to amend the Food Markets Act and it will list these issues that we want to take forward. It could be summed up in this way that now that we have different price basket comparisons, no matter how much, we need to get to the liability basket comparison, how responsibly produced these things are. Then we come to private labs and so on, where we have to look at the overall responsibility. These records, as far as they are concerned, are still in force and will be carried forward. Similarly, I strongly believe what Finland, under its own Presidency of the EU, also took strongly forward: All Member States must comply with common rules. This also applies to animal welfare. That is not the case at the moment, we know this, but we need to put this right. The Commission has now come to this. Presidency Germany has continued on the Finnish line, and that is a good thing. Mr Sankelo, securing Leader group activities: of course we want to secure Leader groups. It is precisely because we are able to achieve a more efficient, effective Leader action that has now been called for. There are also exemptions from these 20,000, but now that we know more about the funding, we will re-evaluate all these issues. Forest policy — absolutely in national hands. The EU forestry strategy was a good decision from the EU Parliament, a very good decision, and it reinforces the message that it is in national hands. Only those large, strategic bodies will be created on the EU side. Last comment on this point is that many of you, ladies and gentlemen, have raised the issue of research and preparation for research more effectively. It is also strongly involved in this government budget, and especially when we talk about climate-wise activities, about caring for the environment, it is soil research at the moment. It is a priority for both universities as funding and for Luke as funding — it is very important for us to know what is happening underground. We know much more about what is happening on earth, but now soil research is the one from which we [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u27	Madam President! Thank you Minister Leppä for his good work, including Metso and hiking fish. I would like to ask about the issue of the origin of food: is the regulation on restaurant food to be extended, and is it to be extended? It's coming to an end in April 2021. Then I'd like to ask you for an update on the white cheek geese situation. Could you tell me a little bit what measures are coming to resolve this problem? And then the big one, we started hunting last weekend. If I understand correctly, the Minister has also been on the hunt this weekend. Within a week, four hunting dogs, nine in all, have been killed by wolves. I would like to ask the Minister what measures the Sanna Marin government is taking to control the wolf population and ensure it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u28	Madam President! The crisis caused by the Korona virus has hit young people in particular. This is reflected, among other things, in mental health problems and increased unemployment. It is precisely for this reason that I am surprised that EUR 250,000 is once again being cut from 4H youth work. This also surprises me because, year after year, Parliament is forced to put money into this activity, and I would like to see the government finally and finally see the will of this Parliament. The proposed cut is extremely dramatic for 4H youth work. As a result, 4H activities would cease in some areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u30	Mr President! Thank you to the Government and the Minister for ensuring that EU funding for agriculture and the operation of the Agricultural Development Fund are secured. However, agriculture would also need more new sources of income. This could be the production of biogas, and this has been taken into account in the budget. The production and use of biogas will contribute to many positive things: the nutrient cycle of agriculture will become more efficient and emissions from transport will be reduced. However, improving the conditions for the operation of biogas requires a strong social climate. The profitability of the biogas sector could be improved, above all by reducing investment costs. The relatively high investment costs are slow, especially for small installations. Minister, how do you see the development of biogas use? Could there be more money for it than there is still in this budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u31	Madam President! Finland is committed to a number of international agreements and objectives, all of which cost hundreds of millions of euros. But is the government committed to keeping the farmer alive? Is there a commitment to promote the well-being and livelihood of an agricultural entrepreneur, something that can survive and invest? I think that the fact that we all value domestic food here is not enough to worry about the profitability of agriculture; it must be reflected in how we allocate money to agricultural entrepreneurship. What does the government do to ensure sustainable development in the income of farmers?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u32	Mr President! The Minister did not respond to that animal welfare law, and that is a very central issue that has long been awaited. I hope you'll answer that. That's where you brought up the horse economy and the horse training. What, Minister Leppä, have you done for the Finnish horse? I have received a lot of messages from Finnish horse breeders that the stock is collapsing and, among other things, colt money has been presented. — You don’t have to spin your head, you can read the Finnish Horse Federation’s press releases. — — — — I'd like to ask you if you're going to return the colt money so that we can preserve that ceremonial animal of our independence. We would not have this forestry, no agriculture, no well-being without the Finnish horse's contribution to reconstruction. So are you going to return the colt money, and could you declare the Finnish horse Finland’s independence as a festive animal? I've been proposing this over a number of years, and it always stays. Pays exactly zero euros. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u33	Madam President! The survival and well-being of land-economy entrepreneurs has been an issue of debate and concern throughout the ages. The farms are large today, which means that entrepreneurs have more and more jobs and a lot of stretching is required. Weathers, and as this year’s epidemic of viruses, have brought greater pressure. Clean Finnish food has risen to an unpredictable value. How have the government and the Ministry now taken into account and ensured the well-being of farmers in the face of existing challenges?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u34	Madam President! I would also like to hear the answer to these good questions about the overall reform of the Animal Welfare Act or, more correctly, the law on animal welfare. And with regard to the subject matter, I'd like to ask you a question about fur farming.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u37	Madam President! Minister! Agriculture is a climate sufferer because ambitious climate objectives are felt in agriculture on weekdays. Agriculture could be helped if more local food was introduced. Have you considered, Minister, that local food could be of greater benefit, provide security of supply and generate income for the countryside? And if one wonders what possibilities can be found in municipalities, nursing homes, even in schools, if the food was mainly local food, has one wondered whether money could be invested in it and researched, how better could this be? True Finns value domestic agriculture, and local food, if anything, brings income to agriculture and farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u38	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister at the beginning for this emphasis on food security and thank colleagues for their excellent contributions, including on animal rights and security of supply. It has been difficult to reduce climate and water emissions from agriculture and has been slow. However, it is necessary, as is the more vigorous protection of biodiversity in all uses of land and forests. Farmers want to be part of the solution and, for example, the strengthening of soil sinks is under intense scrutiny, as the Minister has just said. When these means are found with research, they must be scaled quickly and, of course, these poor profitability and lack of incentives mentioned here are challenges. I would have asked the Minister: how to promote the rapid and widespread introduction of these climate and natural solutions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u39	President! I would like you, Minister Leppä, to give me a direct answer to the question: do you have the objective of getting stock management wolf hunting started as soon as possible, just as in Sweden and Estonia, and to clarify the legislation so that it is not unclear that property such as cattle and hunting dogs can be defended from the wolf? Mr Halla-aho also asked a good question here. I hope we hear the answer to that, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u40	Mr President! I'd like to ask the Minister about exports and the Finnish degree. Finnish natural product companies need more and more raw materials in order to meet the demand for products on the international market. For example, collectors and suppliers of berries and spruce pickers and other domestic natural products do not encounter companies that use and further refine these natural raw materials. In 2017, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry commissioned a report that more than half of the enterprises processing natural products are experiencing difficulties in accessing raw materials. I would ask the Minister that Finland is one of the most forested countries in the world, so how can we better fix this problem and how can this rate of Finnishism be raised even higher in these natural products, especially those that export.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u41	Mr President! The Minister mentioned compensation for horse training and sport. It is good that the situation in this sector has now been stabilised and that funding can be secured at the current level of the year. In the future, it is also important that the horse sector is able to offer a long-term view of the future. Secondly, I would also like to raise this issue of animal welfare and I would like to ask: there is a requirement for compulsory identification and registration of owners for dogs in preparation. When cats are about to leave this regulation out, how are you going to solve the situation of cats when we know that 20,000 cats are rejected or killed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u42	Madam President! Much has been said about security of supply in the food sector — it is extremely important, and it is good that attention is paid to it every year. We are always heading towards a world where international trade can be disrupted, and that is why we must always be 100 % self-sufficient in the food economy, practically a little over the fact that there is a reserve for the bad, bad harvest year. But too little attention has been paid to domestic energy. After all, now that we've made this decision on peat, we've been sworn that we're going to be able to move wood, and that's a dream picture. The Russian state at Putin's mouth has announced that in 22 years the trade in timber or cross-border timber traffic will be substantially reduced compared to today. And now, as we all know, all the larger thermal power companies operating on a market basis... Some of them have already been sold abroad, and after the peat decision, there will soon be a wave of Finnish power plants being sold abroad, and we are moving further and further away from the security of supply target. What are we going to do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u43	Madam President! The dismantling of peat production will not only weaken our energy self-sufficiency, but will also hit the horticultural sector. For example, growing peat is used in gardens as a substrate for growing lettuce and cucumbers. Growth peat can be raised to a large extent as a by-product of energy peat. When energy peat is reduced and stopped, the supply of peat will also stop, or at least it will be much more expensive to raise, and it will also be reflected in the consumer prices of horticultural products. In the summer, a survey reported that 90% of greenhouse growers are going to stop operating if the peat stops. Minister, how do you ensure that domestic gardening products will continue to be available?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u44	Mr President! As a friend of horse racing, I would like to thank the government for fully compensating for the decrease in the yield of Veikkaus, which therefore affects the horse sector as well. After the compensation, the budget for horse training and horse sports will be at the same level next year as this year. This situation in the bet is worrying, and it is, of course, due to this fall in the interest rate, but also to this prevention of gambling disadvantages, which has brought further challenges. In the future, as Mr Vikman has said here, we must sit in a larger, perhaps parliamentary group and think about the future of Veikkaus, so that the funding of these beneficiaries can be resolved in a sustainable way in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u45	Madam President! As a representative of the people who are concerned about the vitality of the countryside, and also as a rather recent horse’s share owner, I am also concerned about the condition of the horse economy and the state of race sports. It is great that the government, as we heard in this speech by Mr Aselli, has compensated for these losses for race sports. However, the situation in the field is that several top horses have been moved to Sweden to compete and many race instructors have also moved with the mass to Sweden, of course, when these races can be visited more freely. It would be important for the future to be able to take care of this vitality of the horse industry and also of the future of race sports. My question is: what are the key steps in the development of the horse sector and also in the development of race sports that we are taking here in Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u46	Mr President! The damage caused by white cheek geese to farmers has reached record levels and there is a high risk that the migration route will widen even further as the changing stock grows. Breaking property protection is unacceptable. This vibrant species is also harmful in parks and beaches. The species must be brought within the scope of the Hunting Act as soon as possible in order to allow more flexible protection hunting. The EU Birds Directive does not prevent this, as the example of Sweden and Estonia shows. Are you, Minister, prepared to support the transfer of white-cheese geese into a species to be hunted at national level, so that the goose can also be used? Do you have any more detailed information on how many birds have now actually been shot with derogations? And thirdly: could they not be treated with the current model of compensation for crop damage until the game compensation rules in the EU have been notified?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u47	Madam President! I must thank the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, namely, the big picture is in place with regard to agricultural and forestry policy. It has been pointed out in the speeches that forests bring and have always brought prosperity to this society, and thank you for maintaining this support for Kemera, which is a forestry incentive system, at a high level of EUR 53 million a year. In fact, according to the Ministry’s statistics, last year alone wolves killed 49 dogs, and this compensation amounted to EUR 165,000, and on top of that the compensation for predatory animal damage for farmed animals. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what measures will be taken with regard to wolf stock hunting?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u48	In this debate, I will give you two more answers, and then the Minister. First Mr Peltokangas and then Mr Olliikainen and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u49	Madam President! According to the Wolf Report of the Natural Resources Centre, as with many other dog animals, the wolf population can grow rapidly. We know that if food is available, the wolf usually gets its first puppies at the age of two and grows annually. Puppies are born from three to six, and the biggest puppies can still have about a dozen puppies in the autumn. Nevertheless, the estimate of the number of wolves in Finland remains very moderate year after year. An example of growth from the previous year compared to this year has been from 10 to 30 individuals. Mr President! Now, Minister, you would have the opportunity to send real greetings to the hunters, to the hundreds of thousands, and to the people living in sparsely populated areas, creating a sense of security. We need to make sure of things. I hope that you will support my initiative for action, which I am going to leave with the aim of calculating the real population of wolves moving and living in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u50	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Coronan visade verklogen att det är valdigt bra att vi är självförsörsörjande gällande matproduktionen. Vi har en valdigt hög kvalitet på vår matproduktion och det ska vi vara över. Vi har kunniga pineskor.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u51	Mr President! The last round left a few questions unanswered. I'm starting with reindeer husbandry, which means they want to set up a reindeer damage committee. The government has made its proposal on this, and this seeks to resolve these reindeer conflicts, which inevitably come, especially in the southern reindeer management area. So there's going to be some improvement. It's about seasonal workers. I fully agree that we need to take measures to ensure that domestic seasonal workers are provided, that is quite clear — and this year, this harvest season. Normally we have over 15,000 seasonal workers from around the world and this year there were about 7,000 of them. The rest was filled with domestic labour, and this was very important, great, and thank you still to the Finns for going to work there. But this is an important issue, and we need to work together between the ministries in order to achieve this. Different measures need to be taken. And these reports, how this thing went — no, they are not all ready yet, but they will be ready at some point in the near future, but I do not yet have the information that was asked. The Animal Welfare Act, it will be renewed, and next spring Parliament will have it under review. It is certainly ambitious, it also contains answers to these issues, which have been raised here, such as the registration of pets and other things of this kind and the fact that animals are then able to exercise their natural functions. Then the issue of the origin of food: we want this to be tightened up all the time, we are not giving in to this issue of the origin of restaurant food, but, on the contrary, we want to put pressure on this issue. With regard to the 4H funding, it is true that there is a minus there, but last year we had that patched up. But this is such an eternity issue here, and I agree that we should get rid of this, but it is now like this. But: however, it has been very much invested in many different ways. Then: will there be colt money?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u58	Mr President, ärade talman! Finnish justice is efficient and of high quality. Confidence in our judicial system is at a good level and it is particularly important to maintain this confidence. Citizens and businesses must be able to count on their case to be dealt with efficiently and smoothly without undue delay. But, as we also know, there are many challenges and problems to solve in our society. The budget proposal takes account, among other things, of the efforts made to strengthen justice. A total of approximately EUR 1 billion is proposed for the section of the Ministry of Justice. This money manages a large part of the activities of the Finnish rule of law, i.e. it manages, among other things, the activities of the entire judiciary from top courts to regional courts, comprehensive public legal aid, high-quality public prosecutors, public lobbying, financial and debt counselling, efficient enforcement, effective enforcement of prison sentences and community sanctions, and state elections. The budget proposed for the administrative sector is more than EUR 40 million higher than in the current year. More funding is being proposed to improve the efficiency of court dealings, ensure criminal liability and increase the safety of prisons, among other things. An additional EUR 2.7 million of permanent funding is proposed for the courts in order to streamline the proceedings. A permanent increase of EUR 2.5 million is also proposed to the Prosecutor's Office in order to safeguard the enforcement of criminal liability. We need to ensure that our justice system functions smoothly and in a high-quality way in the future. That is why we need to develop and reform our system. It is important, for example, that court proceedings focus on taking evidence to district courts, where the evidence can be videotaped in the future for possible appeal proceedings. The reform will improve the validity of the assessment of evidence in the appeal, improve the efficiency of the appeal procedure and reduce the costs and other adverse effects of the appeal for the parties and witnesses. The report of the Legislative Working Group will be ready in November and further preparation and the necessary technology will be implemented as soon as possible. The aim is to introduce a new approach in 2022. Framework funding has been provided for the technical equipment of the Chambers. The acquisition of videoconferencing equipment has been accelerated due to the coronavirus pandemic in order to allow for a wider range of litigation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u59	Madam President! We are in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights starting to discuss the budget. I would like to ask the Minister a few questions, in fact, for the hearing and for the rest. The committee has often pointed out these savings in JTS billions, which are a tough target for savings every year in the courts, and is then constantly being filled with additional funds. Would it be time to give this up as a very constant savings target, because it is central to the guarantee of legal security, to the judicial procedure, to the whole process? I'm asking you this. On the other hand, the committee has required that the causes of these cases of asylum and foreign affairs and the congestion of the courts be examined, not only that there should always be additional money. Has this study been started for these reasons? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u60	Mr President! It is a great thing that next year, as the Minister said, an appropriation is finally being made for the creation of an independent rapporteur for violence against women and a long-awaited Ombudsman for the elderly. They are really great advances. But the number of people in need of public interest is increasing every year as the population ages, and the corona virus epidemic has also increased the number of people in need of financial and debt counselling. How will next year's budget take account of this increase in the number of people in need of financial and debt counselling? On the other hand, there will also be other congestion in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice as a result of the epidemic, so how do you prepare yourself for it? And then there's one more thing. The systematic violence against prison guards has just come up, and you too, Minister, have drawn attention to it. Have we thought about ways to put this worrying phenomenon in order, and does this draft budget already contain opportunities to intervene in this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u61	Madam President! With the government, ideas do not always go hand in hand, but especially with regard to the Ministry of Justice’s administrative sector, the main points may very often be the same. This time, too, there are many good entries in the budget, and I would also particularly like to highlight the new task of reporting violence against women, thank you for that. My real question relates, as does Mrs Eloranna, to the Criminal Sanctions Agency and to the security of prisons, as we have recently read in the press about the increasing violence against prison guards. There is EUR 3.2 million in the draft budget for the renewal of security technology, and I would like to ask how this will be used and what else the government intends to do about it, because it is not just a question of safety technology. I would also like to ask: what happened to the 1.8 million that had been proposed to the courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Criminal Sanctions Agency?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u62	Värderade Talman! Jag vill börja med att tacka Minister Henriksson för de stora satsningar som nu görs inom justitieministeriesets förvaltningsområde. Det är viktigt för att trygga vår rättsstat. Några exempel är satsningar på domstolarna, åklagare, digitalisering, aylsökandes rättsskydd, förebygga våld mot kvinnor, inrättande av äldreombudsman och tillgängligheten till economist- och skuldrådgivning. Det är är et verkligt digert packages.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u63	Madam President! Coronavirus pandemic has caused long-term congestion and the need for additional resources for the administration of the Ministry of Justice. It is true that the government is making a great deal of effort to improve debt and financial advice, and there will also be an additional allocation for the enforcement agency to improve the advice of the debtor. However, I am still very concerned about the position of over-indebtedness in Finland. The duration of late payment is quite unreasonable, and the disorderly marking follows a person long after he has paid his bill. We are in the midst of major reforms, and a positive credit register is on the way, and it has been suggested that many of these important reforms depend on the timetable of this register. I would like to ask the Minister: what is the timetable for the completion of this reform, and it cannot be that all these other reforms depend on this one reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u64	Madam President! Where the representative left off, it is good to continue. I would ask the same question, and I would stress that there is parliamentary pressure on this. This was signed by over a hundred MPs last season. The Legal Committee sent a separate letter to the Ministry of Justice: this must be done as a matter of urgency. In this period, more than 100 names remain on this bill for the abolition of the default mark. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy took a strong position in its own statement that this should now be separated from this positive credit register and imported as a matter of its own. We have already seen and seen what happens when people are in debt after the corona and, unfortunately, have to take a lot more quickly. Fortunately, the government and Parliament have already granted this cap on interest rates, which is a little less restrictive. But as a second question, will there be an extension? That would be an excellent performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u65	Madam President! It's really great to have more money in court. That's what you need. I would like to raise the end of that process, as Mr Keto-Hovinen did, namely the prisons. What is really worrying is the fact that prison guards are being abused, threatened, and, as I understand it, their families are being threatened. This has happened on a small scale before, but now this situation has exploded. It is all right that 3.2 million are funding to improve prison security, and it is great that organised crime is being combated, as it says here, because the fight against organised crime is completely lacking in the government programme, and there is no mention of it. I would now like to know exactly what this 3.2 million will be spent on. Is it enough to get more staff, or is it just technology? There is also a need for more staff in prisons, otherwise this situation will certainly not improve. It is a question of safety at work, but it is also a question of the safety of prisoners that this organised crime should be brought about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u66	Mr President! Long, at worst years of heavy litigation are not part of childhood. The truth is, however, that a large number of custody disputes are still being resolved every year in courtrooms, and we know how slow and heavy these processes are at their worst. Not only must we, of course, invest in child and family services in society, but also in the availability of assistance both in the middle of and after the separation, we must genuinely succeed in extending conciliation procedures and in making trials more smooth. Parental reconciliation researchedly promotes the welfare of the child and is more likely to ensure that the child’s relationship with all his or her parents is maintained. However, the possibilities for access to mediation services are regionally unequal. The courts, on the other hand, have been congested for a long time, and with the corona virus epidemic the situation is bound to get worse. Particularly in the case of children's matters, it is extremely important that the legal problem can be resolved as early, as smoothly and as quickly as possible. I would therefore like to thank the government for trying to streamline the trials now. But I'd like to know how the government's trying to increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u67	Mr President! It is very good that the entire chain of criminal proceedings is being strengthened in accordance with the Government Programme and now EUR 40 million is being added to the entire administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, a significant part of it for the courts and also for the Prosecutor's Office, and also to the end of the process, which has already been discussed here. The centralisation of the reception of evidence in trials is, of course, part of the process of streamlining, but we also save on the costs of the future. It is now important to increase costs for the management of over-indebtedness, as Corona virus pandemic poses an increasing risk of an increase in over-indebtedness as it persists. I would like to ask the Minister: would it be possible to consider this extension or permanent suspension of the reduced interest rate cap for quick-leases? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u68	Mr President! In this connection, I would like to ask the Minister first of all about the situation of prison guards, which has been asked several times here. It is extremely untenable, especially in the sense that prison guards even tell them that they feel that they are not being heard either at Risse or at the Ministry. In that sense, I would like to hear what you are going to do about this. And in this connection, perhaps I would also ask about this ban on smoking in prisons, which has also been raised in this budget book. Then there is the second point: the operating costs of the Supreme Administrative Court of asylum seekers. After all, there are almost half the length of these processing times here, but this investment is now going to the asylum sector, and it is understandable that their processes should be quick. But have you made some legal changes in this regard so that this asylum rally does not continue to exist so that the same people continue to be there?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u69	Madam President! Minister, the level of funding for the judiciary has finally gone uphill, and thank you for that. We've got more money for a lot of pain spots. Finally, the work of the Ombudsman for the Elderly is also on the way, thank you for that. In the case of enforcement, temporary interest rate legislation has been introduced, but there is a short gap in resources, which means that these payment arrangements are not getting out quickly enough to help people. I would like to ask: is the Minister prepared to bring in more resources in the amending budget in order to get the right solutions for these people as quickly as possible? The second issue I would like to ask is the over-indebtedness of the recession in the 1990s. Is the government bringing in the so-called amnesty law so that the lives of these '90s debt prisoners can eventually end more peacefully?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u70	Madam President! This is what many people have done during the corona period with basic income, and many have been laid off and laid off, and the number of people with defaults has continued to grow during the corona period. Almost 400,000 of these entries already exist in Finland. In the last three months, the number of incidents has increased by 2,300 and in the last year by 6,000. I would also like to ask what has already been raised by the representatives about this positive credit register. Where are we with that preparation? And then, from time to time, these quick levers have always been tried out. Are there going to be any further presentations in this regard? I would also refer to the presentation and statements made by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs during the last parliamentary term, which I found to be a good basis for further work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u71	Madam Speaker! The state of justice is a bit like a clean home or a clean job: its significance will be ignored until it is lost and until the values and the cleanliness and the rights are lost. That is why I very much welcome the fact that, in the midst of this corona crisis, the Minister of Justice has raised these grounds of the rule of law and the support for the fundamental rights of Finns, for which Mr Henriksson is most grateful. As a lawyer himself and as a lawyer in legal proceedings, I consider it a very big reform that we in the district courts will, as a matter of principle, take personal evidence as a record and then consider it at the appeal stage. I think that the Minister could open this up to the whole Parliament a little more. But then, President-in-Office, I would like to ask the Minister a point that the government programme talks about improving the status of the victim of crime and also about improving the status of the relatives of the victim of homicide, for example, in terms of the state office's compensation, and this became a very impressive documentary,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u72	Mr President! Important issues have emerged in this Chamber, including the safety of prison guards and the rights of children in custody disputes, and I hope that the minister in particular will have time to respond to them. My question concerns over-indebtedness, which is a growing problem and, of course, it is unfortunately present in Corona-Finland, which means that there is an increase in the number of default entries, and it is also a significant focus on young people. We need to find ways to improve the economic skills of young people so that they can all learn the basics and gain control of their lives. I would have asked about these debt counselling resources. Firstly, even though they have been added, they still seem to be very inadequate. The Coalition Party has also proposed an increase in the percentage of protection for enforcement, which would also be an important good employment act, would encourage work to be taken up. How does the government view this proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u73	Madam President! Anger hysteria is pushing through the red-green government programme, and the actions in this regard are yours, Minister Henriksson. What's going on with the paint law, which you've given the green light to in the past? Last week, we saw a special episode when the Prime Minister became nervous about the opposition’s criticism of mask recommendations. On Twitter, the policeman chose Marin’s side, and breaking neutrality brought a severe flood of messages to the policeman. If you pull through the paint law, the citizens may even commit a crime in the future, even as they start distributing their individual critical TV. Freedom of expression is already weak in oxygen: citizens do not know what to say, and the Prosecutor General is pushing for toughening. Paint law on shredder and resources to strengthen freedom of speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u74	Madam President! Unlike the previous speaker, I would like to bring this matter forward on a constructive basis. As has been praised in these speeches, both the government and the opposition are satisfied with these contributions, which are now being made in the administrative field of the Ministry of Justice, both to the Public Prosecutor's Office and to the courts. There has also been a debate here about this prison violence, and it is an extremely important topic to discuss beyond government and opposition boundaries. When 32 guards were read and interviewed in the West Media magazine, was it the case that only one, except one, all the interviewees told us that they do not feel that their employer cares about the safety, health and life of the staff. That is quite a result, and the government must intervene immediately. Above all, it must also be possible to restore confidence between the Criminal Sanctions Agency and the Prison Officers' Association,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u75	Mr President! It is really great that this budget now strengthens the foundations of the rule of law. In the midst of the crisis, often the underprivileged can accumulate and vulnerable people can be pushed into an increasingly difficult situation without support, and it is important that this is now addressed in a variety of ways. Perhaps I should like to address this issue of online harassment, of online violence. Perhaps it was suggested in previous speeches that this would not be a serious problem. But that's what it is. And that is a serious problem, above all, for many women, for girls, for minority groups. According to a recent survey, girls are 27 times more likely to experience online harassment than boys. And this is a genuine threat to the realisation of our democracy and to the realisation of freedom of expression, whether people of all kinds are also able to participate in the debate in this society. I would like to hear from the ministers how this is being addressed, what means the Ministry of Justice is taking.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u76	Madam President! The Government proposes a total budget of EUR 1 billion for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice for 2021. The budget for the coming year will strengthen Finland's legal system, will facilitate trial and business. Citizens and businesses must continue to have confidence that their cases will be dealt with effectively and smoothly in the courts without undue delay. We know that the number of people in need of public interest is increasing every year as the population ages. Corona virus pandemic has also increased the number of people in need of financial and debt counselling. I think it is important that this growing need is taken into account in this budget, as well as the need for additional funds for enforcement agencies to improve the advice of debtors. It is also essential that the Government Programme is implemented effectively and that the quality of the Government’s legislative drafting is safeguarded. I would like to ask the Minister: how are the resources for drafting the law secured?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u77	Madam President! There has been talk of prison care and how organised crime has operated within prisons: 17 serious acts of violence within prisons over a year and a half. If the situation is not contained within prison walls, Minister of Justice, it will soon not be contained outside the walls. You told us about the extra money of 3.2 million, and it would be interesting to hear what this appropriation will do to get more guards, among other things. A mere electronic or other type of addition does not secure that. And I'd also like to ask you about Hämeenlinna's new women's prison. We made a good decision earlier that this women's prison should be renewed. Now only five of the eight wards can be opened and 60 prisoners can be taken to a new prison. It is a matter of not having enough guards.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u78	And let us take the representative of the Park, and then the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u79	Mr President! Many representatives have raised the issue of a positive credit register. I myself have proposed that, in this context, a free-of-charge non-credit system should be introduced to prevent identity thefts, for example, so that a person can log into the system with his own bank credentials and place such a ban on himself, and then no one else could, for example, take prompt credit in his name any more. Can you find out?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u80	And now, Minister, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u81	Mr President! Very good questions, I would like to thank you for them. I shall begin with this over-indebtedness, which has been mentioned in many speeches. We now have the situation that the government is now investing in the fact that, in this crisis, where we are now, there will be more debt advisors all over Finland. The services of financial and debt counselling are provided by 22 legal aid offices, and the so-called chat service of financial and debt counselling is the latest service form. There are currently 194 man-years in this area and we now have an additional EUR 600000 in the draft budget. In addition to this, we do much more. We have a project together with the Bank of Finland, and we want Finns to be better able to manage their own economy in the future than they are today. There's been some questions about a positive credit register. It is an extremely important project, but it is also an extremely difficult project, both legally and technically. In spring, the Project Steering Group stated that the tax administration's income register unit will be the controller of a positive credit register. The aim of this register is to combat over-indebtedness in different directions, and it will also make it easier to assess the liquidity of the applicant. It was intended that the register could have been introduced during this government term, but now, unfortunately, we have recently been informed that it can only be introduced in the spring of 24. This is based on the estimate by the tax administration of the time required to set up such a large register. For this reason, I myself have also thought that it is important that all the legislative work should be completed during this term of government, but also that account should be taken of what the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has pointed out to the government, that is to say that these non-payment labelling should also be addressed. This preparation is now under way at the Ministry of Justice, and information on the exact timetable will be available at a later stage. Then this prison situation is extremely important, and I asked the Criminal Sanctions Agency for an explanation of what the situation is and what is being done about this matter more than a week ago. I have also received an answer here just recently from the Criminal Sanctions Agency, and let us return to this question. I agree with the Members of Parliament that it is very important that we are able to ensure the safety of the prison guards, and let us return to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u82	Mr President! Indeed, the Minister has already answered almost all the questions I had intended to ask, that is to say, this increase in the share of protection, that is to say, whether there is an increase in the percentage of protection for enforcement. For if there is not much left of pay to live, then it is not an incentive to work. Unfortunately, as a result of the interest rate, there are more likely to occur in the future, and there must be a change in the validity of this entry in the register, just as Myllykoski also pointed out in his speech. And to this positive credit register and its future validity, the minister replied. These people in debt in the '90s recession, they've been busting their asses for over 30 years now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u83	Mr President! I would like to add my voice to these thanks to the Minister in the sense that, when the section on local government and health in its own budget statement, which was then of course endorsed by the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Budgets took the view that these specific congestions should be dismantled, these efforts have now been made. It was then a rather conscious choice from the House that we did not go as if to split up the money there and here for those items that are actually part of the government's preparation, and rarely do ministers catch up on these issues as well. And the second thank-you point is that we will have this reporter, an independent reporter on violence against women, because it is an important part of the implementation of the Istanbul agreement and the overall fact that we know where we are going. I would also like to thank you for this funding for Hämeenlinna's women's prison. I understand that the Minister will return to this human resources when he has the next floor, and I am very happy to hear that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u84	Madam President! I would also like to ask about these child custody disputes and the prolonged handling processes that have worsened during the corona. In what way are you going to speed up that process? After all, at worst, the situation will lead to family consolidation and more autonomy for the other parent, and then the court will appeal to the fact that when the child has already been with the other parent, alienation has already taken place. Another thing I would ask about would be the treatment of intoxicant addicts. So we have a lot of prisoners, who are from smaller crimes, drunk driving, sitting down, and if we consider the future for them, it would be reasonable for those who can only be directed to receive treatment. That's if
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u85	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister who actually answered the question. It is absolutely wonderful that you are taking up this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and want to reform the system of defaults so that these retention periods are dramatically reduced once the debt has been settled. That's great. The separate Justice Ministers have not been able to do that. I would also like to thank you for the fact that nearly EUR 2 million has been allocated to the dismantling of congestion in water and the environment — an absolutely excellent thing, which will certainly also boost a number of investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u86	Madam President! Shoplifting and shoplifting are on the increase. I find it totally unacceptable that the same people come from day to day, shoplifting or stealing, among other things, from grocery stores without getting punished for doing things. For example: The entrepreneur catches the shoplifter and wants to take the case to court. About a year after the incident, the prosecutor calls that it is such a trivial matter that it is not being prosecuted or the preliminary investigation has already been suspended. I think this is completely the wrong signal. The resources of the police and the prosecution system are simply not enough at the moment. I understand that you are now increasing the resources mentioned above, but are we sure that there will be enough of these resources now? It is estimated that theft and shoplifting will cost some EUR 500 million a year. No money, however, replaces the mental state that a person experiences at the cashier’s store, for example, when it comes on your shift to rob, for example, with a knife. Unfortunately, this happens every day somewhere in Finland, and the convictions of the robber are completely ridiculous. I would ask again: are you prepared, Mr Henriksson, to consider, for example, that trades could apply for a restraining order against a person who is constantly disrupting? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u87	Mr President! A functioning and equal justice system for all is the cornerstone of the rule of law, and that is why it is great to see that the rights of the most vulnerable people are being upheld and that many important efforts are being made to ensure that everyone's human and fundamental rights are realised. I will continue with the violence against women. I share the thanks of a large number of representatives for this establishment of the role of rapporteur. It is an essential part of the implementation of the Istanbul Agreement. At the same time, however, we have these new forms of violence that require attention. I would have asked more specifically how to deal with the threat of cyber violence. Regrettably, many women, a girl and a minority experience online violence. Forty-two per cent of Finnish girls have experienced online violence, and if we are still talking about girls belonging to minority groups, the figure pains more than 60 per cent. In particular, we should be better able to protect minors,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u89	Mr President! In a state of justice, citizens' confidence in a functioning judicial system and in the administration of justice is crucial, and citizens must be able to be confident that cases will be dealt with in a timely manner without undue delay, and in that sense the efforts made to this system of justice and its functioning are very important and a great thing. My question to the Minister is actually from that southern reindeer herding area. There this public confidence in our legal system is a little weak. There has been a great deal of conflict among reindeer husbands and reindeerless citizens, and citizens feel that justice cannot be achieved. Could you, Minister, find out whether non-compliance with reindeer husbandry law can be subject to criminal law and thus sanctions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u90	President! Minister, you have just said that the safety of prisons will be improved. However, next year's budget shows less than 15 person-years for the Criminal Sanctions Agency. Why? When the police and the prosecutor receive more staff, the impact on prisons will also be enormous. The whole crime scene needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u91	Mr President! In particular, I would like to thank the Minister for the four budget appropriations: Firstly, there is an additional allocation for enforcement agencies to improve the effectiveness of the advice given by the debtor. That's a good thing. Secondly, additional funding for legal aid and lobbying is necessary, as the number of people in need of public interest is increasing with the ageing of the population. But here I wish the Minister a wish. As Chairman of the Memory Federation, I receive feedback from various parts of Finland that people working with lobbying issues should have more information about the situation of the memory sufferers and their encounters. The feedback also comes from the fact that the assessment of the overall state of memory is not always possible in the desired way. Could there be more training in these matters? Finally, I would like to thank you for the appropriations for the creation of an independent rapporteur on violence against women and an ombudsman for the elderly. At last, these important tasks will be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u92	Mr President! In my opinion, the most important thing that has been said in the Finnish justice system in recent years is to streamline the trials. This has been addressed several times by the European Court of Human Rights, among other things. Last year, in its alternative budget, the Coalition Party proposed a permanent increase of EUR 4 and a half million in the legal system, and now it seems that the government is about to implement it, so thank you for that. However, there is a small question in this whole: would it still have been possible to add more money to videoconferencing equipment, because it is an integral part of this whole process? Mr President! I would also like to ask the same question as many other people here about over-indebtedness, that is to say, raising the percentage of protection for this enforcement, which is less than EUR 700 at the moment, to EUR 900, would certainly have a good impact on employment if it made it more profitable for many people to accept work. After all, this interest rate situation has not improved the over-indebtedness situation in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u93	Irade the Talman! Justitieministern är inte bara justitieministeriö, utan också Ålandsminister. Jag vill taga Anna-Maja Henriksson för det activa arbetet Hon gör med att hålla kontakten till Åland — senast i dag med landsskapsregeringen. Det uppskattas valdigt mycket på Åland. Justitieministeriet bereder för tilfället samtidigt med landskapsregeringen ettt now förslag till Ålands självstyrelselag. Det har variety ett långt project, det går nu framåt och börjar så småningom vara på slutrakan. Jag ser fram emot den dagen förslaget kommer till riksdagen, enligt planen nästa år, då Ålands självstyrelse phyller 100år. Vid sidan av självstyrelsen är svenska språkets ställning mycket viktigt för Åland. Det är något justitieministeriet också arbetar på med en ny nationalspråksstrategist. I det arbetet hoppas jag att man som en del kunde se på laggranskningens resurser och att den Svenskspråkiga laggranskningen skulle få samma resurser som den finskspråkiga. Det har de Senaste åren upptäckts flera diskrepanser, alltså oilkheter mellan finskspråkiga och Svenskspråkiga lagtexter. Det är ytterst allvarligt. Det är naturligtvis ingenting som justitieministeriet senmt kan svara på, men någonting som jag hoppas att man kände titta på som en del av nationalspråksstrategin.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u94	Madam Speaker! It is important that the safety of prisons is strengthened for the sake of both staff and prisoners. The well-being and skills of staff are of paramount importance and I hope that efforts will be made to promote well-being at work, education and further training. It is far from easy to move from prison to civilian, and therefore a great deal of work is needed to reduce repeat crime. Cooperation between the prison and the surrounding society is essential. It is important that the legal security of those who have committed the crime is realised and that the existing cases, the crimes that have taken place, are dealt with in court as quickly as possible. I would like to thank the Minister for his work well done and, of course, for the fact that the district courts of Iisalme and Varkaus were able to continue their activities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u95	Mr President! In September, the Committee on Legal Affairs took the view that female genital mutilation should be made more explicit in Finland. Together with Mr Sarkomaa, we have proposed a separate criminalisation of mutilation and more effective prevention through our legislative initiatives. Our aim has been to speed up the implementation of the will of the citizens' initiative and to make the necessary changes concrete.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u98	Madam President! In a society where the protection of private ownership and property does not take place more widely, there is no economic activity or enterprise that creates well-being for the citizens of its society. The protection of property, both in Finland and in Europe, on a wider scale in the EU, has been called into question in many respects, and this is mainly due to the clash between the protection of property and the freedom to conduct a business with the so-called fundamental environmental right, as the need to protect and reduce climate emissions increases under the circumstances in which we live. In particular, certain processes being prepared in the EU, a biodiversity strategy and so on, may run into the notion of property protection, especially since the relationship with forest ownership is very different in different European countries. This scares many Finnish forest owners. Minister, do you think that the development of property protection is going in the right direction, and whether or not:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u99	Madam President! Good speeches have been made in this Chamber, for example, on the problems of debtors. At this point, I would also like the Minister to pay attention to the enforcement curve and to the situation that the public sees as unfair, that is, that you should pay attention to the commission of the enforcement men, because the people are very confused about this issue. Another thing I would like the Minister to look at would be the multifaceted practice of taking care of children in Finland. We also hear some disturbing news from the citizens on this subject. Thirdly and most importantly, I would like to see the situation that the underprivileged minister is now taking over the victims of the recession of the 1990s, which has been heard earlier in this Chamber. I would be very happy to praise the Minister's actions as recently as my colleague Strand here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u100	Let us take four more speeches before the Minister's five-minute speech. And now we are going to take part in the second round, i.e. representatives of Myllykoski, Koskinen, Ojala-Niemelä and Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u101	Madam President! We in this country have introduced so-called charges, i.e. for citizens to be entitled to justice, they will have to pay, for example, EUR 250 to the district court, over EUR 500 in ground disputes. Have we started to wonder where the opportunity for a poor person to seek justice goes when there is no money to pay, that is, when you need to see that you buy medicines and bread first? Should we start to look at whether these payments have in fact scrapped the fundamental right of people to gain justice when they need money to demand it? At the same time, in Mr Honkonen's proposal on the protection of property: the cormorants, the white-cheek geese, which destroy people's livelihoods — is the special legislation more powerful than the freedom of the property and occupation of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u102	Mr President! In the second paragraph of the budget section of the Ministry of Justice’s administrative sector, it is good to say that ‘legislative decisions are therefore required in many sectors of the economy to have a preconceived These are the worst aspects of the problem of enforcement and over-indebtedness. A significant part of the problem of over-indebtedness is due to the regulation of interest rates and the fact that we have too high contractual and partly statutory interest rates in relation to the current world of interest rates. In order of priority, when they go ahead of the actual debt of enforcement, it exacerbates and exacerbates these over-indebtedness problems. An open-minded and innovative solution would now be needed to review these interest rates across the board and also the order of priority for enforcement in order to overcome these problems. This change in the interest rate world is likely to last for at least ten years,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u103	Madam President! I will continue with this same theory as Mr Koskinen before me and raise one more objection. As a result of the covid-19 epidemic, the government has facilitated the enforcement cycle to facilitate the access of debtors to a restricted or lighter enforcement procedure. At the same time, however, the enforcement officer retains the case-by-case discretion to modify or limit additional periods. Should the enforcement curve be changed further in this regard so that, for example, those who are unemployed can obtain more easily months of leave from the enforcement procedure? Today, the case-by-case consideration of the enforcement officer often results in these free months not being granted. Unfortunately, this is a situation in the field.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u104	Mr President! In its reports and opinions, the Committee on Legal Affairs has raised many of these issues, particularly the issue of over-indebtedness. Certainly — and hopefully — the Ministry of Justice has also read, among other things, our statement about a month ago on the government's annual report for last year. I would have expected that the Minister would have had time to respond to this billion-dollar saving in public finances, that what was going on with him. This applies to all these areas. There were so many good speeches here, but the Committee on Legal Affairs has been concerned about this saving target for the entire administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, which is then always fixed every year. I would have asked again: has the committee's comment been taken into account that this administrative court congestion and its causes are being investigated? This is a matter of immigration and congestion. I would like to thank the committee for this spring. We have had very urgent changes to the law on enforcement and bankruptcy, among other things. I hope from the Ministry, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u105	And then Minister Henriksson, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u106	Mr President! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen! I will start with this question by the chairman of the Legal Committee on the JTS billion. It has now been corrected in a different way, and we now, among other things, welcome the fact that there is going to be more funding for the courts and prosecutors and also for prison care. In that sense, the situation of the courts and prosecutors will be better next year than it will be this year. Then I'll go back to this prison security thing. Prisoners belonging to organised criminal groups are a group that poses a threat to other prisoners and also to prison staff. It is regrettable that the number of acts of violence against staff has increased over the last two years, particularly as a result of organised crime. Measures have been taken at the Criminal Sanctions Agency to address this threat and the Criminal Sanctions Agency is placing prisoners of organised crime in its own departments, separate from other prisoners. In addition to the security department in Riihimäki Prison, a new security department is now being set up in Turku Prison, and the Criminal Sanctions Agency continues to assess the adequacy of the emergency services. The Ministry of Justice has set a result target for the Criminal Sanctions Agency that it will also carry out an external evaluation of the prison security situation next year and will take further action to prevent organised crime. A further EUR 3.2 million has now been allocated to the reform of prison security technology for 21 and 22 years, and the Government's proposal for a public finance plan will allocate an additional EUR 13 million to the Vantaa Prison building and the costs of additional personnel for the year 24, which will also bring flexibility and additional staff to the prisons in Southern Finland. With regard to the staffing resources of the Hämeenlinna prison, the situation is regrettable and we are looking for ways to secure sufficient resources for the Criminal Sanctions Agency. Then one can say that, among other things, we are also getting a new prison in Oulu, and there will also be a new prison in Vaala, which means that there is a lot going on in the prison sector. This was also discussed in the District Courts and the streamlining and renewal of the processes. To this end, our chambers of justice will now also be reformed, there will be more opportunities for videoconferencing, and security will also be the measures required in the Chamber of the future. As far as this legislation is concerned, we are working on it. Hopefully, Finland will be able to enter into the system in Sweden, i.e. that the evidence that has been received in the court of first instance can be used in the court of appeal, and in that way it will also be possible to streamline the processes and, in particular, to contribute to the situation of the victims of the crimes of the plaintiff. They do not need to tell many times about the traumatic experience they have experienced. There was also talk of hate speech, goals and so on. With an illegal threat, we're going to commit a crime under official charge. That legislative work is under way, and I hope I can bring that proposal here to Parliament this year. I am very concerned about this climate which is currently prevailing in our social media. It is a pity, and it is a shame to see how girls, especially women, are victims of this kind of treatment. This should not be the case; we all have responsibility for it. You have raised so many good questions that I would like to be able to answer them all, but we can also meet here at the café and discuss them further.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u107	Now we go to the main category of the Ministry of Education and Culture and hear the presentations by Minister Andersson and Saariko, and then we go to the debut. - Minister Andersson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u108	Mr President! There has never been a moment in this country when the decision-makers regretted the investments in education and knowledge. I am proud that this government, despite the global pandemic, will continue on the line of strengthening and developing Finnish education. This is also reflected in the draft budget for 2021 as significant new contributions to education and training. As part of the budget proposal, there is also a historic extension of compulsory education to 18 years of age, which aims to raise the level of competence in Finland and to secure a secondary degree for every young person. The budget proposal includes additional funding to promote the quality of early childhood education and education, equality and well-being, continuous learning, expansion of hobby activities and strengthening student and student care. We also propose substantial increases in vocational and upper secondary school education. The Government will also continue three-year development projects to improve the quality and equality of early childhood education and basic education with the aim of improving the learning outcomes of children and young people and reducing inequalities. We reserve a total of EUR 50 million for the development of quality and equality in early childhood education. The programme will develop, among other things, a three-step support model and pilot two-year pre-school education. Two-year pre-school education is to be carried out between 2021 and 2024, with a view to bringing 10,000 children into pre-school education over two years. Over the past few years, the importance of investing in the early years has been strongly highlighted in the public debate. Early childhood education is an important and useful social investment, and high-quality early childhood education is particularly beneficial for children who come from the most difficult home conditions. We will reduce customer fees for early childhood education by EUR 70 million. This is not only an excellent employment measure, but also a reform which will significantly improve the position of families with children with low and middle incomes. The reduction is to be achieved by increasing the income limits by 31% while reducing the maximum contribution of another child from 50 % to 40 %. This reform is expected to enter into force from the beginning of August next year, and then an estimated 20,000 new families will be transferred to the zero-payment category as a result of this reform. In accordance with the Government Programme, the structure of support for early childhood education will be developed and implemented into legislation. A total of EUR 15 million will be earmarked for this purpose in the form of permanent funding. In total, we reserve approximately EUR 75 million for the quality and equality programme in basic education for 2021. This programme strengthens educational equality, supports teaching and strengthens the quality of basic education. The project aims to address, inter alia, the differentiation of learning outcomes, to strengthen support for learning and the quality of education, and to support flexible and individual transitions in early years. As I have already mentioned, compulsory education is extended to secondary education up to the age of 18. At the same time, free secondary studies will be carried out. This reform will enter into force from the beginning of the autumn semester 2021. Additional funding of EUR 22 million will be earmarked for the reform next year, which will gradually increase to EUR 129 million in 2024, when all three age groups will be fully covered by extended compulsory education. To strengthen student and student care in both basic and secondary education, we reserve EUR 10 million next year. This, too, will amount to EUR 29 million in 2023, and the intention is indeed to create binding dimensions for these services, both in basic education and in secondary education. In upper secondary school education, the Government proposes EUR 3.25 million for the continuation of the implementation of the upper secondary school law and the reform of the upper secondary school, which is related to the basics and implementation of the new curriculum and to the implementation of the upper secondary school law. A quality programme will be launched for the development of upper secondary school education, to which a total of EUR 15 million will be allocated in 2021 and 2022 in the form of a one-off future investment, and the Government will propose an additional budget for 2021. The professional side presents:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u109	Then Minister Saarikko, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u110	Mr President! The budget proposal for the year 21 includes a number of priorities and also additions related to higher education and science as well as culture, art, sport, sports, youth work and student support. The actions of the budget proposal raise Finnish expertise and strengthen the effectiveness of research. The funding of art and culture supports creative work and production and also equal access to them for all Finns. Funding for sports and young people promotes a physical lifestyle, well-being and health. Next year, a total of EUR 375 million will be financed from the proceeds of gambling activities, including expenditure on science, art, culture, sports and youth work. The profit estimate has decreased due to the corona epidemic and the measures taken to reduce the risk of gambling. In line with the decision in the Budget Committee, the reduction in the return on gambling activities will be fully compensated for from general budget resources next year. The Ministry of Education and Culture accounts for 184 million of that compensation, of which 43 million will be implemented by changing the share of the lottery tax and the remainder by increasing the budget for the general budget item. According to estimates, revenue from gambling activities will be lower in the coming years. After next year, compensation will continue, but it is clear that it will not be possible to fully compensate for the fall in income in the future with budgetary resources. In addition to next year's budget, it is good to remember all the significant additional contributions made to the various sectors that have already been agreed this year in the context of the amending budgets. For example, EUR 91 million was allocated to Finland's Academy's concession by way of a one-off additional investment in Finnish research, and 124 million were used to finance additional start-up sites. Almost 80 million have been supported in the field of culture to cope with and recover from the corona and to survive beyond the stage, and 20 million have been supported in the field of sport and sport. In addition, in the budget debate, the government has agreed to draw up Finland's sustainable growth programme, which will be implemented from the EU's recovery funds. Education and research and innovation are one of the priorities of this programme. Mr President! The total funding for higher education, research and education will be EUR 3.36 billion next year. It will rise to 78 million next year. This will cost EUR 50 million to take account of index increases for higher education institutions. Otherwise, it will mainly be about the research appropriations for this year's amending budgets and the impact of their one-off growth on the budget for next year. Higher education as a service environment will be developed to meet the changing needs of society and working life. Study trails, learning environments and flexible study opportunities suitable for this time will be developed in such a way that careers are extended and skills can be developed for life in a spirit of continuous learning. By increasing the provision of higher education, improving access to higher education and developing flexible study opportunities — this is one of the top objectives of this government. The international competitiveness and attractiveness of the research and scientific community will be supported by investing in research environments and research infrastructures. Finland hosts and finances one of the supercomputers of the EuroHPC Joint Undertaking for HPC, which is located in Kajaani. Mr President! Study support is also my responsibility. The appropriations for student aid will amount to 643 million next year, and there will also be an increase in appropriations. For students, the budget proposal is positive because student grants increase by around 0.5 per cent as a result of the index change from August next year in order to safeguard the purchasing power of student support. In addition, the meal allowance for university students will be increased to ensure affordable meals. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the right to school travel allowance is being proposed to be extended as part of a free second stage so that, from next August, the school trips of students entitled to free education can be reimbursed without any responsibility for the duration of the school journey of at least 7 km. Mr President! The draft budget promotes cultural building projects of national significance: the National Museum building and the renovation of the National Theatre and the Sámi Museum Siida and its improvement, to name a few. Cultural services will be developed by proposing: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u111	Then let's go to the debat. I would ask those representatives who wish to take part in this debate to press the V button from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u112	Mr President! Thank you to both ministers for this introduction, and it is really great that we now have the opportunity to put more into this education and science and culture. Unfortunately, not all governments have had that, because the economic situation in Finland has been very difficult. First of all, I would like to ask Minister Andersson, and then, on the second question, I would like to return to the affairs of Minister Saariko. One in eight young people ends their primary school without basic skills, we have mental health problems in 20%, ADHD diagnosis in 5%, substance abuse problems, learning difficulties. However, we are now extending compulsory education without taking this into account. I would like to ask Mr Andersson how you intend to correct these issues, the basics first and then to think about extending compulsory education. Have you been in contact with the teachers, heard their views? What about the municipalities that are now really afraid that this will be a training cut?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u113	Mr President! Finland will be fine when we take care of competence, and next year's budget is about to put the entire training path in order. A model of three-step support for early childhood education will be developed, fees will be reduced and two-year pre-school education will be tested, the quality and equality of basic education and early childhood education will be strengthened, and, most importantly, investment in the future comparable to comprehensive school reform will be made, i.e. an extension of compulsory education, in order to secure at least a secondary degree for each young person, without which access to a job will be very difficult. We remember that only about 40% of those who depend on primary school alone are in work, so now no more young people are allowed to fall from education to their own devices. It is a little difficult to understand the criticism of this reform, because we all feel that we need to increase the employment rate and prevent exclusion, and with this reform we are doing exactly that, we are doing all the things that the opposition believes we should do instead, in other words strengthening early childhood education, basic education, supporting young people. Is this about being misfired?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u115	Mr President! Indeed, the biggest problem facing Finnish society at the moment is exclusion. This also threatens the success story of Finnish education. Especially boys are at risk of exclusion, but a mechanical extension of compulsory education does not help this. Mr President! I came here to the Parliament for child welfare work. I know what that ark is. I was working with those who are at risk of social exclusion. I saw, in particular, mental health problems and the threat of exclusion and exclusion of boys. We need more resources for comprehensive school. Mr President! Why, government, do you not resource more adults, helping hands to primary school? There, if we had enough resources, we could immediately tackle the plight of those children who are at the worst at risk of exclusion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u116	Mr President! I want to thank the government. The government has recognised that, in addition to raising the compulsory school age, there is parallel and parallel support for a vital comprehensive school. That is the most crucial point at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u119	Mr President! I agree with these thanks. It is wonderful that we have a government that invests in education in an unprecedented way, and its importance is increasingly important now that we are living in the worst times of crisis in recent history. Contrary to what the opposition claims here, this extension of compulsory education is not as if it were an alternative to investing in early childhood education and primary school. It seems that the opposition has not properly followed what this government has registered in the government programme, and may not have been paying attention to these previous budget debates. Furthermore, Minister Andersson has just reviewed these huge investments in education and training that this government is making. I would have asked Mr Andersson that when we know that this period of distance education this spring produced huge polarisation, how can we now, in this crisis period, see to it that the children who may have fallen out of the sled in the spring get a catch?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u120	Ärade talman, Mr President! Inledningsvis vill jag taga wastemycket för att vi har en bra budget ur utbildningssynvinkel, från småbarnspedagogic till universiteten. Personligen tycker jag att det ox förskoleförsöket med TVåårig förskoleundervisning är en valddigt bra sak.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u121	Mr President! I personally think that the most important task of politics is to build a good future and equal opportunities for children to work towards life, and it is really great that we have a government that understands this and is committed to investing in early childhood education, pre-school education and education in a broad sense. We know that early years play a major role in the growth and learning of children. It is therefore a little out of line that in this country of free education there is a price tag on the first step of the learning path. It is great that we are now taking a step in the right direction by reducing the fees for early childhood education towards genuinely free early childhood education. At the same time, it is really great that, through the two-year preschool experiment, we get information about the effectiveness of eskari and hopefully we can consolidate it as part of this learning path for everyone. Finally, I am very pleased that today, alongside traditional education policy, we also have a better understanding of the importance of well-being, endurance and mental health for learning and, of course, more broadly from the point of view of a good life, and...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u122	Mr President! The Marin government invests in early childhood education and education and prevents exclusion, and in this early childhood education, for example, this model of three-tier support is one of the things that will be applied to it. It will help, among other things, with learning difficulties, behavioral disorders and others — then it will be possible to prevent it when we are all concerned here about this exclusion. There are many advantages to the extension of compulsory education age, and one is that now, after comprehensive school, the student will not be left empty if the school does not land, but it is always someone’s responsibility: it is either the responsibility of the municipality or the responsibility of the education provider to take the young person’s life and the training path forward. Thank you very much again for the funding for this vocational training. Face-to-face education there is a need for more and I am pleased that this too is being invested in. The future of sports and sports organisations — whose funding comes from 98% of the population — is of particular concern. Now their income for next year has been compensated, but what will be worrying about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u123	President! I am sure that everyone will agree with the key objectives of the reform of compulsory education, but not with the means. The causes of exclusion can be found further away than the absence of a secondary degree. It's not the cause. It's the result. It is now happening that our country, which is in debt at a fierce pace, is spending a great deal of money on reform, which will only further reduce the level of education. It is also a direct transfer of income to those well-off, and it may well be that it is also a training cut. I believe that the money for reform should be allocated to the early years of children and young people and to those who have completed primary education who do not go to further education or stop secondary education. Minister Andersson, how will compulsory and free learning materials ensure that the objective is achieved for those who are not, in principle, motivated to develop their learning or who do not have the basic skills to do so? The government always says that decisions are based on researched information and experts. I would like to hear what the experts have said about this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u124	Mr President! You have to thank me when you have a place to thank me. In next year's budget, the Government is implementing many important projects for the assembly, such as the extension of free early childhood education and the two-year experiment in pre-school education. Of course, we would like it to have come into use for the entire age group. However, I would like to stress here what I think is the main problem with this compulsory education reform. It is that it does not achieve the objectives set for it, that is to say, that everyone should get a secondary degree. At the moment, we already have a month of education, which means that there are educational places for the entire age group. Unfortunately, however, that problem is related to suspension, and this reform does not have the elements to bring that student to the end of its secondary school if he does not have the necessary knowledge or skills or has chosen the wrong field. Compulsory education ends up at the age of 18, and then in practice the means of society end, so to speak. Free of charge, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u125	Mr President! I think it is good to look at the prospects of the financial crisis ten years ago, so that we can see the scale at the moment. At that time, investments were made to increase skills, research and education. This is what is being done now: resources for student care, ensuring funding for comprehensive school, early support, training places and compulsory education. I also welcomed the introduction of the Tki-Tax Reduction Incentive. How can we, Minister, ensure that companies find this tool and use it to develop their own activities with universities? In the budget, the reduction in early childhood education fees will add up to EUR 2000 per year to the family’s purse. With special joy, I also greet the inclusion of three-step support in early childhood education. It is necessary to respond early to the need for early support for children and families.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u126	Mr President! This increase in compulsory school age is a very important signal. Lifting is a message that a young person’s place is in school, preparatory education or similar. Under the current system, a 15-year-old child can vote out of education and, in the longer term, many of them will also be excluded from working life. This government, and hopefully the future, will continue to take the specific measures that have been taken in primary and early childhood education. Do you know that at the moment, one fifth of children receive support or special education? When the municipalities are involved, we do not know exactly how much it costs, but I have an informed estimate: EUR 200 million. So we've got support. Yet every year between 10,000 and 15,000 young people
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u127	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson, it is the world's most important objective that each young person should complete at least a secondary degree, but this means, this extension of compulsory education, does not respond to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u130	Mr President! Education is the best way to prevent exclusion. We invest in early years, we invest in that support, we make sure that young people at risk of falling receive that support. There's always someone up there at the second grade if the kid's going to fall. It's like that, and it might be a different model. The youth is supported and helped forward. There are plenty of options. Then, in your opinion, these costly costs and that free learning materials should only be given to families with limited resources — but they are actually an obstacle to many young people. Save Children reported, and 60 percent of young people felt that secondary costs have posed financial challenges for them or the family. According to the youth barometer, half of the young people who did not have that degree or did not have a place to study had dropped out or dropped out of those studies because of a lack of money — that is, absolutely absurd readings. This is really an important way. As far as the costs are concerned, if this reform costs 130 million,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u131	Mr President! I would like to comment on this same point, as do many other opposition politicians. I put a very simple question to the Minister of Education, and I would like to point out that, as we now act in Parliament and exercise budgetary power, its spending should be very responsible. It is taxpayers' money, which must be used in a targeted way to the very place where it is needed. I now ask the Minister for Education: When we know that the majority of those who have decided to go on to the second stage of basic education and the problems of funding have not been so far — although the representative has suggested that they have been, but the majority have continued to the second stage and we have only a small part that has not continued — why do we not use this money to support this part, which has not gone on to the second level, so that as many as possible have been motivated to do so and this does not lead to us saving from teaching materials? Then, just like that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u132	Mr President! Minister Andersson and Minister Saarikko, I am very pleased about investing in the well-being of families with children and in early childhood education. However, I am particularly pleased that the subjective right of each child to early education has now been restored and that group sizes have been improved for those over the age of three. Now the government also lowers the fees for early childhood education for people on low and middle incomes, which improves the well-being of families with children. This also supports the objectives of the Social Democrats on the free future of early childhood education. In addition to these, two-year preschool trials and investments will be launched in the Justice to Learn development programme, which will improve the conditions for learning a child, as has been called for here. Years of early childhood education are very important, and the need for special teachers has increased over the last few years. I now ask Minister Saariko:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u133	Mr President! The learning outcomes of comprehensive school continue to deteriorate in both the mother tongue and mathematical subjects. For example, the understanding of the reading in Vantaa has weakened since 2016 in all grades studied, i.e. in the third, sixth and ninth grades. According to experts, the results are influenced in particular by the deterioration of the home conditions of children, the presence of pupils in ordinary classes requiring special support, i.e. inclusion, and multiculturalisation. The problems in schools are alarming: children with behavioral disorders lack normal social communication skills, large differences in skills and learning, impulsiveness, children living on gaming and virtual worlds, increasingly saddening the value of education and learning, sick families, problems caused by immigration. This will not be remedied by major projects such as raising the age of compulsory education, which, in principle, I am in favour of if we had the resources to do so, rather than just individual increases in money here and there. My question is: how are you going to reverse the fall in knowledge?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u134	Secretary Andersson, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u135	Mr President! First of all, I repeat what I have said many times in this Chamber before that it is not worth putting the early years and the second degree against each other, but the strategy of this government is that we are investing in the early years as well as the second stage, and I also think that this country cannot afford any other kind of strategy in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u140	Mr President! It is gratifying to note that year after year we parliamentarians across government and opposition borders, each in turn in different places, combine the same concern for the future faith, exclusion and position of Finnish young people in society. I have become convinced that, in addition to the measures I am now responsible for — such as the youth work that was created over a decade ago as an important part of the basic services of the municipalities, it is as if to seek and find those young people who have little prospects for the future — or alongside its traditional youth work, which has been an important part of the Finnish welfare society for a long time, the educational system also sees an historic structural reform in the form of an extension of the compulsory education age. I am convinced that none of the ways we have so far devised and jointly considered in the fields of learning, youth work and employment and education are enough to ensure that the future of Finnish young people can be safeguarded. In a country of low birth rates, it is intolerable that we allow a situation where thousands of young people cannot find their way to further studies every year. That is why the reform carried out by Minister Andersson is really needed. Mr President! A few more comments from the debate on this point: Mr Asell, you said that the situation of the bet is worrying. It concerns both me and the government as a whole, not only in terms of youth work or physical activity, science and art, but also social and health care organisations, in other words, the whole concept of a welfare society. The government will return to this in the next few weeks and is now preparing a process that will enable all these beneficiaries, including the group of people you were concerned about in terms of physical activity and sport, to be understood, including a clear outlook for the future. Mr Kempp asked about the introduction of the Tki tax incentive. I find it an interesting new opening in next year's budget for the Ministry of Finance and is linked to my area of responsibility in support of Finnish research and development. Finland has always risen from economic crises through research and development, and now our goal is for smaller companies, medium-sized enterprises and also smaller universities of applied sciences to find each other better. On the basis of the feedback I have received from the field, I would encourage that this should be used and that this research tax incentive should also be found on the ground to boost cooperation between universities and businesses. Mr Kiljunen, you asked about the availability of early childhood education and the adequacy of kindergarten teachers. The decision of some 10,000 new starting places has already been taken during this parliamentary term, some of which relate to these corona activities and thus also to the placement of young people, not on top of nothing, but as part of the path of study. One of the largest sectors that has received more start-ups,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u141	Mr President! The objectives of extending the compulsory education age are good, but we have a different view of the means. Comprehensive school must provide the necessary conditions for the second stage to be achieved, and that is where the challenges lie at the moment. The aid should therefore be allocated to that comprehensive school and to the early years. That is why I am concerned about all children and young people in the most vulnerable situation. In 2018, the Finnish National Board of Education also conducted a study that found that the economic reason was rarely the reason for the drop-out of studies. The second thing that I am also very concerned about is the transfer of student care for the social welfare reform to the social welfare region, where it is also being taken away from children and young people. I would like to ask how the Minister of Education has been able to accept such a change.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u142	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! As we know, the immobility of Finns is already costing many billions of euros to society. If we in Finland want to build a future, we must ensure that our children and young people are mentally and physically healthy even in the post-corona period. Many sports and sports clubs are in great need. In this context, I would like to thank the government for its response to this emergency, but the emergency has not completely disappeared. For example, the cancellation of one junior tournament will bring tens of thousands of euros to the economy of the Junior Society. Our children and young people need vibrant and healthy clubs in the future more than ever. I should like to ask the ministers what action you have in store for this emergency. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u143	Mr President! The sector is an important industry, which is in serious difficulties due to the coronavirus situation. The sector employs thousands of people, and not everyone seems to understand its overall meaning. For example, the background of a popular musician, orchestra or sports team is typically influenced by at least dozens of people whose livelihood depends on what happens to the performer in question. It would also be possible to carry out events responsibly during the corona period, especially in outdoor areas where current knowledge does not allow the disease to spread very effectively. You can also arrange events indoors with reasonable security intervals and face masks, and this has been done. The scope for action of any industry should not be overly restricted. How does the government intend to ensure that the sector operates even in the current challenging situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u144	Mr President! Professor Uusitalo recently said that society will support young people in extending their compulsory education in situations where they do not yet understand their own interests. I would like to talk about extending the right of young people to learn. I do not think of reform as a school run, but of the continuation of the right to study, which will also continue to be a continuous learning process until the end of life. This obligation applies to society to take care of it, to keep everyone involved beyond its most difficult time. If, with this reform, we pick up at least some of the young people who are completely excluded, this will pay for itself. At the same time, when we take care of the budget for all school levels, it is not a question of a cut in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u145	Mr President! Every student has the right to be confronted at his school, and no child must remain invisible. Last Saturday we celebrated World Mental Health Day, the theme of which was listening this year. The theme is extremely important in a situation where the mental health problems of children and young people are still growing and the need for support is growing at the same pace. It is important that we recognize the need for a child or young person on time, and professionals in school play an important role in this. However, they should be provided with sufficient tools to address and guide support. However, no tool is enough if there is no time to face everyday life. The aim is not to solve all the problems in the school, but to have sufficient adults and sufficient time and means to meet, address and refer to the aid. I would like to thank the government for these considerable contributions, which are now value choices in order to ensure that we take care of children and young people and to ensure that the staff have sufficient resources and time to carry out their work with professional skills. It is, above all, an indication that we are now ready to keep
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u146	Mr President! The OECD reminds us that our schools today will be our economy tomorrow. It is to be welcomed that the government is creating the conditions for expanding skills and employment growth by extending compulsory education and allocating funding for continuous learning. The goal of the government is to raise the level of education and skills of the entire population. A number of parliamentary periods have been targeted at preventing falls, without success. Is it not also a strange situation when it comes to freedom of payment? Even when you think about your school life, college books were easily obtained free of charge, but high school cost you a fortune. The prerequisite for extending compulsory secondary education for both the Greens and the Government has been to guarantee the quality of the early education path in both early education and basic education, as well as adequate support and guidance for the school path to the joint stages and to prevent falls and interruptions. At the risk of being implemented, this sufficient guidance and student care resource will be available to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u147	Mr President! It is great that, after years of cuts, the government is now investing in all levels of education — and the opposition is opposed to extending compulsory education because, according to them, money would be out of education in the future. However, the economists from the OECD to the Group of the Greens disagree with you. I find it a little strange that when here the right is talking about employment policy and when we have such a means, which is financially viable, to pay itself back and generate money for future education, then you are opposed to it on ideological grounds, with a little similar arguments as the right was against elementary school. Just as the Finns of Finland and the assembly here want money to be allocated only to those with the most difficult situation, so one has to wonder: it is not a Nordic welfare state with such a poor-help mindset and it is not a sensible education or economic policy. I would ask the Minister: is there any reason to suspect that this reform would not be economically viable?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u148	Mr President! Extending compulsory education to 18 years is one decision of this government. It has been suggested here today that it would guarantee a secondary degree, and I would ask the Minister for Education: how does this guarantee that every young person will receive a secondary degree? I am in favour of free of charge, and I would like to ask whether this freedom of payment covers the whole of the second stage, i.e. whether it extends to more than 18 years of age, and whether it covers all costs at a different level. I myself would like to see strong investments in comprehensive school as well. Then exercise and sports. The sports clubs will not survive this winter, do not forget them. But I would ask the Minister for Sport, Saariko: Can you promise that organisations, sports clubs and these will also receive their money in 22 C.E.? Now you've made a decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u149	Mr President! Thank you very much to the ministers. The strength of Finnish education policy is that we have a broad tradition in Parliament of the appreciation of education across party boundaries, and education policy in Finland is traditionally long-term over government periods. It is also reflected in this budget and in the further work on the reforms carried out during the last term of government, which the ministers have done with merit, thank you very much. However, I would like to ask about this compulsory education reform when it is expensive, inefficient and does not help the young people most in need of support. It would therefore be necessary to provide the content of the training and their school trail, but now the money that could be spent on learning materials and bus travel to help these young people. This reform has been widely criticised by principals, professors of education and other educational professionals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u152	Mr President! It is very pleasant that the way to cutbacks is now in education. It is an important direction for change, and in that way if we invest in the future. President! However, I will say a few words about culture. I think it was a good thing that the government programme has already concluded that the funding of culture can be increased, and it has been particularly good that it has now been possible to provide this emergency aid to cultural operators and also to those involved in physical activity in the event of an emergency. Of course, there will be challenges in the future, and I understand from what the Minister has said that further support for the cultural sector is also being considered, which I see as necessary. President! However, I would like to conclude that libraries play an important role on the cultural side. In this time of pandemic, they have proved their role, as well as in the digital world, as a means of preventing exclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u153	Mr President! I would also like to ask the Minister about research and innovation policy. The Government has this Research and Innovation Council, TIN, which has met at least a few times, and I have looked at the minutes, and then there is this ministerial working group. When you look at these things, they are such that there are quite a lot of different concepts and practices and models, how to do things, but when you look at the actual content of research and innovation, there is little talk about them there, although I think that we should at least map out the very necessary skills and technologies that should be held in national hands. Other countries do this a lot. Of course, politicians are not to bet on those winners, but there are certain critical pieces that must stay on the ground. Let's just say if there's a takeover, then suddenly, in a couple of years, you can see that technology has moved out of here, and that comes as a surprise. Or we'll have to fight for some project money between the ministries. When are you going to do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u154	Mr President! The recent demonstration of the Elokian movement attracted attention, as it apparently intended. Finland has the right to demonstrate in an organised manner what it wants, as is the case in democracy, but no matter how important it is, illegal action is not acceptable. According to publicly available information, this particular movement of Elokavu is circulating, among other things, in upper secondary schools, telling of its activities. This movement openly encourages its activists to engage in illegal activities against organised society. This is, among other things, contrary to the existing upper secondary school curriculum criteria, which require education to guide students to social activity through legal democracy and peace. I would like to ask the Minister: what measures does the government intend to take to ensure that the rules of the game are clear, what kind of organisations are available for the educational institutions to present their activities?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u155	Mr President! The expansion of compulsory education sounds noble but shows poor knowledge of the school world and the problems of young people. [Interjection from the Centre Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u156	Mr President! I think that Mr Andersson quite rightly said that this is not a question of either—or reform; it is a question of both—and reform. In other words, when you invest in education from the doctor's hat, you also do those actions, such as now this corona support for training, which is specifically lacking in these weakest groups. I think this is a good employment solution and it is a good cultural policy solution. We know on the employment side because, in the long term, we need a skilled group to meet the skills requirements of the labour market and to raise productivity in the workplace, for example. But what has been interesting to me is that we have discussed whether money is going to be wasted here, when even those families receive free education that do not necessarily need it. This criticism is quite strange in that sense, because the same criticism from the same parties comes from why we do not do more general tax reductions,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u159	Mr President! Some of the young people studying at the university study in five years, receiving full student allowances and working at night to support themselves, when the student allowance is not enough, but there are also those young people who would like to study in the evenings, not just in the daytime and in the evenings, when they would like to graduate more quickly to work in their own field. However, there is no incentive for this, as evening learning does not become student support in the same proportion as the faster progress of studies. When it is harder for young people to get jobs during the interest period, could you consider a reform in which a student who studies a five-year degree in three years also receives a five-year student allowance? In this way, the amount of study work is genuinely recognised and encourages students to graduate more quickly, and society also benefits from this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u160	Mr President! I believe that every parent is trying to do his best, and if he can't do that, then there will certainly be backgrounds to explain it. The coalition here is once again pursuing this familiar policy of free-of-charge and support for those with the lowest incomes, and that sounds like a beautiful rhetoric —
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u161	Mr President! It is now necessary to correct this argument made by Mr Honkasalo. This educational material supplement, which was made last season, automatically comes to children and young people. They do not have to go anywhere as if to show it, but necessarily none of their fellow students know it unless they themselves want to tell us about it, and we would be prepared to improve it. If it is a challenge not to succeed in studies because of it or to suspend them because of the fact that the study materials are a problem, then of course it can also be invested in it, but, as Mrs Laiho has said here about this report by the Finnish National Board of Education, a very small part actually says that the economic reason is what causes it to be interrupted. The main reasons are the lack of guidance, the lack of choice and insufficient knowledge and skills, and that is the quality of education we would like to invest in, that young people should receive this support in primary school, after primary school and, if necessary, at secondary level, so that we would also like to help them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u162	Mr President! The debate on extending compulsory education has heard arguments that money should first be targeted at preventive work, primary school and young people at risk of exclusion. The only thing is that these means have always been made and will be made, and they are important, but they have not been enough, and we need both—that is, not either—or. Extending compulsory education is the only way to achieve the goal of obtaining a secondary education for the entire age group, but of course young people and students also need more support and guidance, and this is why they are also being invested in the reform. It is particularly important in the reform that the reform guarantees the possibility of individual support when the student needs it to start and complete studies. The Government also invests in early childhood education, comprehensive school and preventive work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u163	Mr President! The opposition has now suggested that their means of guaranteeing qualifications and their suspensions would be reduced. They have suggested here that it is the only way to make things better. There is absolutely no desire to understand even this government's objective of extending compulsory education, and I think that perhaps this evaluation council has been interpreted and solutions have already been sought for further interpretations by the opposition here. It is necessary to remember the old ones, as Mr Saramo has already recalled, that even then the assembly doubted whether it would be possible to carry the entire age group according to the same curriculum. Yes, a slightly similar situation comes to mind today, when different means have been sought and the government will come to apply for them along with this extension of compulsory education, but the opposition has never accepted or accepted this at any time. And I wonder at the chairman of the committee, who said that first the foot of the stone, then the others.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u164	Mr President! More than 4,000 secondary school students neglect their compulsory education. This was demonstrated by a study carried out by researcher doctor Sami Määttä for the University of Jyväskylä. There are psychological symptoms, mental health problems, lack of motivation, family social problems, and the problems are constantly increasing. These are not small or short absenteeisms; they are talking about absences from one year to two years, and that is quite a lot if you think it is a three-year high school. For some, it is more than two years of absence. I understand that there is a desire to help these very people in extending their compulsory education. This is a core group, a target group — those most at risk of exclusion, and they should really be at the heart of this. To this I would now like an answer that in what way extending compulsory education will help
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u165	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson spoke about sending signals to young people through this extension of compulsory education. That is precisely the problem, namely these marginalised young people and those who are at risk of exclusion, your mechanical decisions, that is, signals, are not reaching them. Mr President! It is also unfortunate that the future Minister of Education is accusing me of ideology when, in reality, I myself base my view on my own history as a parent of the Child Welfare Institute and later on my work in child welfare. It is unfortunate that the future Minister of Education will not listen to the voice of us who have grown up in the children's home and who have done child welfare work. I would like to see you and Mr Gustafsson in contact with the grassroots workers and visit them as soon as you start your job as a minister, getting to know their work. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u166	Mr President! I am happy to accept a representative of the Parliament who requires job guidance in my work. But I have been a member of the Committee on Education and Education for over 20 years because of my own enthusiasm for education and education, and something about that handprint can be seen. But as this debate shows, not all of our education systems and the content of education have gone as well as we would have expected. But one important and essential thing has now been forgotten from the debate. After all, the Economic Policy Review Council notes that the compulsory education age has been increased over the last ten years in Belgium, Portugal, Austria, the Netherlands, England, Germany, Israel and in some of the states of Canada, Australia and the United States. In fact, Finland will be 10 to 15 years too late to do this extension of compulsory school age,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u167	Mr President! There has been a debate here about compulsory education. Well, I personally am not in favour of raising compulsory school age, because health care does not treat different diseases with the same treatment. But let's get to the starting points. There's been an increase in the opening seats. Thank you for that. But quite often, according to the information I have received, starting places have only been temporarily increased and not throughout the training period, and then we have quite a lot of expensive training programmes and they have not been taken into account. My second question relates to the continuing training of teachers. When are you going to introduce the legal right to further training for teachers? According to the studies, it increases quality and well-being at work. People in the field of social services have statutory continuing education, and I think it should be for teachers. What about the aptitude tests of the social worker: When will you return the tests? Krista Kiuru was the one who quit as Minister of Education at the time. I wish they would be returned. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u168	Mr President! It is good that the Government Programme's basic line in funding science and higher education continues, i.e. a permanent increase in funding for higher education institutions, including full indexes, will continue next year. It is also very welcome that an increase in the amending budget has already been introduced to the starting points of higher education, which I think was mentioned just now. But much of the state's cultural, youth and physical activity expenditure is financed from the proceeds of gambling, and this is a hugely important work for civil society. Exercise, culture, science, youth work and the work of countless social services organisations are of immense importance to the well-being of Finns, as Minister Saarikko said earlier. It is therefore of enormous importance that these collapses in gambling profits are fully compensated for next year. But this compensation cannot be repeated every year, and we need lasting solutions. You would have asked Minister Saarikko: have you already in the government wondered how and when — what means we have to deal with this financial problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u169	Mr President! Let us return to this extension of compulsory education age. As an employment measure, this is enormously expensive. The Ministry of Finance estimates that by 2029 the number of employed persons would be around 1600, which means not a million, as I said last week, but EUR 672500 per person who might be considered quite expensive. But I would have asked how this split up. Have you calculated the income distribution effects of this government proposal? Of course, it is now quite clear that tax reductions are not coming for middle and high incomes, but this is quite a hand-out. So is the left-wing government actually doing a greater service to high incomes than any tax reduction that has been proposed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u170	Mr President! I was wondering if it would be worth taking the floor for a moment, but since the name was mentioned, I was thinking now of telling Mr Antitikainen, who suspected that the reality of child protection was not familiar, that I myself worked in the community child welfare unit and grew up in the family home, so that is why these things are very familiar. I think it is very important that we now finally have a government that is making an education policy in which no children and young people are left to their own devices, but this compulsory education proposal has been built in such a way that it gives strong support to all those young people. It is not just a mechanical obligation, as is implied here, but it is a large entity, which is precisely the source of the needs of young people, and I am very proud,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u171	Honorable Speaker! The Sipilä government reduced early childhood education fees by approximately EUR 84 million, and now this government will further reduce the fees by EUR 70 million. In other words, during the central government's responsibilities, early childhood education fees have been reduced by more than EUR 150 million in total, which is a very significant financial contribution to families with children. How do you, Minister of Education Andersson, see the importance of a reduction in early childhood education fees?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u172	Let us take a few answers, then the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u173	Mr President! These learning difficulties and exclusion concern a wide range of families. So it is not a question of whether there is money, whether the wealth of the family is what it is. When it comes to issues related to extending compulsory education, I see it as extremely important for me, working with special students for so long, to focus on these activities. None of this kind of general clutter is simply a practical work there at school succeeds. As a result, I understand that the government has a good purpose in extending this compulsory education, but this is a complex issue, and in my opinion, as a worker, the targeting should be better and more useful. I believe that, for example, Mr Gustafsson, whom I know for a long time as a professional in the field of education, sees:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u175	Mr President! It would be interesting to hear from the government who, in their view, will benefit from this extension of compulsory education: those pupils who are already applying for school there, or those who do not wish to apply there at the moment. After all, the real problem there is not the lack of compulsory education, but the lack of local education in terms of skills and real knowledge of working life, and this reform does not improve it in any way. One must wonder why the government calls such measures employment measures when this extension of compulsory education, costing hundreds of millions of dollars, will produce jobs — if it does — years from now. Even this reduction in childcare fees will produce jobs much faster and much cheaper, although it is a very effective employment measure as such. Is this because when the government does not have any sensible employment measures at all, then now these measures of debt money taken from future generations must be acclaimed as such?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u176	Secretary Andersson, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u177	Mr President! If I start with this target group on compulsory education, who we are talking about when we talk about extending compulsory education. We are talking about all those young people — that proportion of each age group — who currently do not have a degree at second level, and that is currently around 16%. So this applies not only to the relatively small group that does not go anywhere after primary school, but also to those young people who, for one reason or another, drop out of their studies at second grade. And, as I said, we know that these suspensions will focus on that first year of study, when they will be covered by this extended compulsory education. Then there is the question of whether there is a single sapluon here. The biggest change that this reform will bring is that the 16 to 17-year-olds will no longer be able to opt out when they are minors. It does not mean that they are studying the same thing or all in the same way when they are there, but it keeps our young people between 16 and 17 years of age in the field of free education, local teacher education, free student guidance and free-of-charge student and student care services, including all the different activities that education organisers do in cooperation with, for example, workshops and youth workers. This keeps them up to the age of 18 throughout our publicly funded education system and enables them to have tailor-made individual solutions to ensure that they are also able to complete their secondary degree. For this reason, the government has allocated additional funding for vocational training, additional remuneration for teachers and mentors. As far as this financial aspect is concerned, we have worked very well with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities throughout the preparation of this reform, and we have also been getting closer and closer to each other as far as the cost estimates for this reform are concerned. At the moment, this difference is only 10 million in terms of differences between the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. It is perhaps comparable to what it was in the context of vocational education and training reform legislation: I have been told that this difference was EUR 272 million at the time. [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: Who told you?]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u178	Mr President! Many interesting questions came to my area of responsibility — in time, I will answer everything I have time to do. Mrs Kauunto and Mr Heinonen, you asked about the opportunities for children and young people to engage in leisure activities, and also about the conditions for them to do so at the time of the interest rate and, on the other hand, at the time of the declining rate of return. We have supported leisure activities for children and young people, as well as for adults and all top sports activities, by about EUR 20 million so far, and some of the funding decided on in the spring is still unused and will be allocated in the appropriate way. As far as this corona crisis in the middle of our lives is concerned, my starting point is that in all circumstances it would be important to secure opportunities for children and young people to engage. We will certainly have to make tough decisions — and the regional authorities will — to prevent the spread of the disease, but, at least in my world of values, the pursuit of children and young people is something that is worth a great deal of resources to safeguard in a health-protective way. Mr Heinonen asked if I could promise that all the money, like this year and next year 21, will continue to be used by sports clubs, for example, in 22. Mr President, I cannot. The government has openly stated that this lack of income is so large that hundreds of millions of euros cannot be regarded as an automatic solution that these are always compensated for by the state budget. Together, we must now find ways that were also asked here by the representatives. They are not yet unambiguously available, but the process is being launched precisely because I believe that this Chamber largely thinks that this money, which is generated by the winnings, has been made and will be done a lot of good for the benefit of Finnish children and young people and all of us in various ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u181	Mr President! As far as I am concerned, raising the compulsory education age to 18 years is not a way of doing this. There's no need to encourage it. As an example, the fine system of the University of Jyväskylä today, i.e. studies Oriented to the University as part of upper secondary school studies and vocational studies, are good things again. So now that we are thinking of the incentive to catch our young people in society and less fallout, would the minister be prepared to go on to raise the starting points, because today it is thought that there will be a lot of active and good students there without that starting point? I understand what the Minister has just said, but I would almost like to approach the German model, because the more our young people become professionals, the better this society will be.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u182	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking the government and ministers for bringing hope to children and young people and their families in this difficult time. As we are well aware, Finland will only succeed with knowledge, and that is why the extension of compulsory education is one of the most important reforms in this decade. It is difficult to understand the criticism that we have heard from the right side of the Chamber today about this reform of equality in education and the well-being of children and young people. We must ask why the opposition does not accept a genuinely free second degree and the fact that no young people are excluded. Is it wrong to invest in the realisation of equality in education, even though it is the future of children and young people that has often spoken and worried us in this Chamber? If you are really concerned about the inequality and differences in learning, can you not consistently support this truly good government proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u183	Mr President! This compulsory education reform should be understood if we had a large number of young people who, contrary to their own interests, would not seek a second degree after primary school at all, but, as Mr Andersson has said here, there are very few of them. In practice, we already have an obligation to apply to the second stage — not to be covered by labour market support and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u186	Mr President! Thank you for ensuring basic funding for science and universities of applied sciences and for fully restoring the indexes and increasing the number of starting places. Special thanks to Minister Saarikko for also taking into account the plight of nurses in the media and for considering how education could support them. One of the key wishes of nurses is that specialised training to increase clinical expertise should be brought back to universities of applied sciences. Currently, it is difficult to develop the expertise of clinical nursing because there is no national guidance for organising specialised training. The universities of applied sciences are entitled to arrange, on the basis of their own autonomy, what paid specialisation training at any time, but it does not necessarily serve nurses or nursing or the clinical career development of nurses. This, too, is exhausting the nurses at the moment. Are you aware of this problem, Minister, and what can be done about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u187	Mr President! The aim must be for each young person to complete a secondary degree. However, this is not the most effective way of achieving this objective. Support is needed earlier. At present, 6000 young people graduate from comprehensive school each year who do not have sufficient basic skills to study at secondary level. How will this model strengthen their knowledge base? Just for comparison: the same money could be used to hire each child at risk of exclusion from pre-school education as a personal director or other support person. Another interesting element in this budget is that the experiment with two years of pre-school education is justified by the fact that this model should not be made permanent until it has been tried out. However, education is now being pushed forward without clear research evidence. Is there not an obvious contradiction? The assembly itself has also spoken in favour of this two-year pre-school education, which is a good thing. I would have liked more investment in higher education and research. I would have asked: is the aim still to raise the RD effort to 4%?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u188	Mr President! This government invests in education at all levels since early years. It is the right choice, and it is above all a value choice. It is not a choice to invest in the children of the rich; it is a choice to invest in all the children of this country, and it is precisely this choice that gives them more effective results. The welfare state is best served by the services that all Finns use together. Then each of us will be looking after quality, and each of us will also be able to see that it works, and this is what researchedly makes the Nordic welfare state so strong. I myself have recently enjoyed the maternity clinic services. Are free maternity clinic services support for the rich? Well, they're a universal welfare state service that takes care of all the children in this country just as much as it does to ensure,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u189	Mr President! It was mentioned above that seven kilometres would be the limit for school transport, which would be free of charge. How, Minister of Education, do you view those students who are travelling several decades to the nearest secondary school?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u190	Mr President! I have also been delighted to welcome the higher education policy, which the government has consistently and perhaps also, like modern regional policy. In South Ostrobothnia, for example, Seinäjoki University of Applied Sciences has strengthened both in terms of starting positions and educational responsibilities and funding. The Government therefore recognizes the great potential of polytechnics as a guarantor of the vitality of the province and a positive future. President! I would like to ask Minister Saarikko how he sees the position of universities of applied sciences and university centres in the future, especially in the light of the fact that their accessibility and quality will be further strengthened.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u191	Mr President! This spring and summer has been an incredibly challenging time. Thank you, Minister Andersson, for the successful administration of corona time. Your message to the school world has been clear and justified. I think it is important to extend compulsory education and to free secondary education. We just have to take care of all the children, and care begins with early childhood education. The reasons for these decisions have just been explained by both ministers, and you would think that they would finally get there. Art and culture are an important part of our society, and they contribute to strengthening well-being and the possibility of inclusion. The authors of the arts and culture have been and are still tight in this corona era. I hope that, Minister Saarikko, you will make every effort to support these sectors and their players. At the same time, I would like to thank you for your decision on the Warehouse Kuopio is the best place for the Warehouse Library.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u192	Mr President! The importance of research and science has been found to be very important in this time of the corona crisis and, therefore, a certain degree of disappointment in this budget was that there has been no increase in funding for science. We do a very high-quality science at our universities and together with university hospitals, and they would need long-term funding, certainty of that. In particular, an increase in the share of VTR funding would be needed. Why were there no changes? And then I would like to ask about these university teaching places in those fields where there are group education, such as medical training: has this group education also been taken into account in that resource?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u193	Mr President! Allow me to be a little surprised: next year, the public funding of education and education, taking into account municipal funding, will be around EUR 16 billion, and the National Coalition Party and the Finns Party are here opposed to an increase of 22 million in compulsory education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u194	Mr President! I am also a member of the Committee on Culture, and a great many experts have raised two very important problems there. One is that funding is not enough, as Mr Kempp has just said. Very many, you have also been there to hear, experts have pointed out that there is not enough funding. The second problem is that this reform in the middle of the corona is moving too fast. A great many experts have also pointed out that this reform cannot be implemented within this timeframe. So I ask the Minister for Education: why do you not take these expert statements into account? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u195	Mr President! School bullying and school violence are part of the causes of exclusion. We have been talking about this for over an hour and a half now, and this seems to have been forgotten again in the gym. I would like to ask you about this: What concrete legislative measures will the government take to prevent school violence and bullying? At what point is this parliamentary round table of bullying? When can we start this job?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u196	Mr President! Indeed, the big picture of education policy has changed in a much more positive direction, and cuts have since taken place on the road to investment in the future. The Government Programme included a book on leisure activities for children and young people in connection with school day, and next year's budget has now financed EUR 14.5 million. It is important that every child and young person, regardless of their family background, experience the joys and community of the hobby. Where is this project now? Has the corona affected it now? 5 million had already been earmarked for pilots for this year — do you have any experience with them? And how does this start next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u197	Mr President! Those learning differences are already beginning to grow there in the lower classes of basic education, in fact already in the past. The first signs of exclusion are already visible from the day-care centres, and so in recent years, studies have put a great deal of emphasis on these early years and on the importance of early investment as the most effective place, both humanly and economically. When the budget is made, it is always a lot of choices, that what is being invested in, and I would have asked you about these choices. In other words, these material costs will be permanent expenditure, but instead teachers will be hired for fixed-term contracts with fixed-term project money, as will a significant part of, for example, funding for gender equality here on a fixed-term basis. For example, in last year's alternative budget for this year, we proposed that these should be made permanent. Similarly, this experiment on two-year preschool education is for a very few people, and it is also temporary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u198	Mr President! This compulsory education reform and the free transition to secondary education have been criticised here because not all families have a shortage of money. However, listening to the stories of our children and young people, it is clear that the money will not go to waste. No one should have to stop secondary education because the money is not enough. No one should have to make sub- or course choices based on low costs and no one should feel guilty about their training because of the family’s difficult financial situation. These things may not appear in those statistics, but they are still a reality in Finnish families. Of course, the achievement of the objectives of compulsory education reform also requires investment in, for example, primary school, early years, guidance, joint stages, other support and, in particular, support for those at risk of falling, and that is what action is also being taken,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u199	Mr President! Actually, I'm going after this. So now that the problem is, as has been described here, that we are currently coming out of primary school for young people who do not have sufficient literacy and numeracy at that second level, I cannot understand how this will improve by extending their compulsory education for two years and they will not even be able to get the degree when they are 18 years old and are already entitled to leave that second level. Rather, this seems a little like when fools practically carried light into a dark room. In other words, this support should now be targeted more importantly at those who need it, and much earlier, so that they can obtain from comprehensive school the knowledge and skills that can cope with the second stage there, as was the case in the past. And that is a good question: has it been considered what has happened in this country, when no more 16 years have passed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u200	Mr President! Today I met with representatives of the students in vocational education and they said that they were puzzled by this forced debate, when the obligation is directed specifically at the providers of education, which was also mentioned here today by Minister Andersson. It is aimed at the providers of education; they must take care of young people. I would also like to ask Minister Saarikko that, once the cultural and artistic players in the free field have remained in a rather fragile position, their position is, in principle, weak, in what way these possible targeted corona subsidies have been considered in the Ministry so that they are targeted specifically at these small, very fragile artists and cultural operators.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u201	Mr President! Three observations. First of all, of course, the most important thing is that we have now moved from education and training to training. Congratulations to the Government and also to Parliament when we support this. The second is, of course, this extension of compulsory education. It is a major qualitative change and will have far-reaching effects. Congratulations on that. Thirdly, I would like to raise the issue of the cost of this early childhood education, and it makes it easier to pay for it. Someone here earlier pointed out — I listened in my room — that it is unusual that when we go to primary school and university, education and education are free of charge, but at that point when a family of children has been set up, the first step is so burdensome. Now I would like to ask the Minister what plans we have, and what timetable would it take to ensure that early childhood education is completely free of charge?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u202	Mr President! I would also like to highlight these good steps taken by the government to continue to reduce early childhood education fees and raise the age of compulsory education. Indeed, in the last period, early childhood education fees were reduced, and I would also assess these two measures in the context of family policy. Of course, these are very important things for countless Finnish families and also contribute to reducing the poverty of families with children, which we have had at a worrying level for a long time. It is clear that, in terms of education and education, raising the compulsory age will not solve everything, but it will definitely help many young people to stay on the way to school. It is important that the government has continued, among other things, this development of continuous learning. I would also like to ask you, Mr President, when last Saturday we spent the day of Aleksis Stone and the previous government decided to improve the quotes of authors: is there an e-book?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u203	Ärade talman, Mr President! As expected, we have talked a lot about this extended compulsory education, but the government announced the social welfare reform today. Both reforms require more experts, and in part there is talk of nurses, among other things. For example, in extending compulsory education, we must bear in mind the need to guarantee equal guidance for all, and student care, especially student guidance and school psychologists, must remain close to young people in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u204	Mr President! For some reason, I did not get an answer to my previous question, so I repeat. More than 4,000 secondary school students neglect their compulsory education. How will extending compulsory education help them? That is what I want the answer to. How can they now be made to comply with their compulsory education? Should aid and support not, however, be targeted in a timely and timely manner? Even a fire is worth putting out where it burns, and when it burns, especially when there is very little water. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u205	Mr President! In my first speech, I thanked you for your efforts in early childhood education. Now I would like to thank you for the start-up places for universities, which have been significantly increased. We also proposed this as a partial solution to this difficulty caused by the interest rate in the fact that the selection criteria had to be changed in the middle of the application period, and the government reacted quickly. That's a good thing. Although the R & D funding volume has increased since 2016, 2019-2020 will remain at the same level of R & D intensity. I understand that it is widely shared by Parliament that Finland's RK intensity should be the 4% of GDP. In what time-frame do you think that this common goal could be achieved by allowing the state itself to increase these contributions from one year to the next? We have argued that the state should increase its RD spending by 100 million a year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u206	Mr President! I must now be surprised how strongly the opposition is opposed to the extension of secondary vocational education, especially since we know that at present some 16% of the age group is quitting or interrupting or failing to complete secondary education. No real arguments have been found on you. It's a matter of human dignity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u207	Mr President! Some of that funding for secondary education is still there. After all, high school education is a bit of a problem at the moment, because it lacks a lot of money. For example, municipalities currently pay up to 60% of upper secondary school education. How will this be taken into account? After all, the financing base for vocational education and training will change in the coming years and will also become this regulation, which has now been the subject of a consultation. For example, the Association of Education and Training in Seinäjoki has made an excellent statement, and I hope that you will pay attention to it. For example, it draws attention to the costs involved in accommodation and to the fact that they are currently not covered by compensation as widely as they should be. Since there too we have long distances and we do not have the means of transport, then young people will have to come to Seinäjoki to live and then these accommodation costs are needed, so there will be a lot of them. I hope that this will also take account of vocational training.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u208	Mr President! The number of people who have been excluded and the number of those who have dropped out of school have remained stable despite the experience of the training month, the pass-through programme, various searches, joint guidance and support measures, measures to prevent drop-out of secondary education and so on. This reform will also take specific action. Young people are being replaced, escorting them from school to school. The joint phase consists of preparatory education for a qualification, which uses workshops as a learning environment, supports the Cabins, from which young people receive services from a one-stop shop, strengthens the cooperation of outreach youth work with schools, further develops the apprenticeship and then it is also a folk high school year where a young person at risk of exclusion can get on his feet and continue on the school path. So we're gonna need it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u209	Mr President! I am not going to go into secondary education anymore, but when Mr Kempp here said that we would oppose this proposal of 22 million, that we ourselves are not against investing in these young people, on the contrary, but that we are challenging the fact that we see that there are other, more effective ways of getting there. In the development of education, it is good to invest in continuous learning. I would also like to see new forms of cooperation in the implementation of education. In this context, I am submitting budget initiatives to create a new model of joint industrial training and to develop a research centre for wood construction. Then there are a few other issues within the ministry or within the section: compensation for organisations is a very good thing, given that there is less to distribute now, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that a more permanent solution is needed in the long term. I would also like to thank you for investing in children's culture, but at the same time we must remember that cultural and event players are in a wider difficult situation, and this deserves attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u210	Mr President! The volume of R & D investment was raised here and I hope that the EU Recovery Facility will provide further solutions. Then I want to go back to the early years. In the government, we have restored the right to early childhood education to all children and reduced fees and we are developing three-tier support for early childhood education. The two-year preschool experiment will begin. You can also see in the background the thinking of extending compulsory education and keeping pace with the international pace. We see that investments in a good start are the best basis for language skills, working in a group and for all subsequent learning. Early intervention in the burdening factors of childhood prevents children’s mental health problems and learning difficulties. Families should also be supported. One model is Finland's hobby model. I would also like to ask: how is it going?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u211	Mr President! I would like to ask: what is the second step in addressing the needs and plight of students who need special support? At the moment it seems to have been completely ignored in many debates, and now that this compulsory education is expanding, there may also be more obligations to make sure that everyone is involved in this sled. Another issue in which people in Finland are very old-fashioned is how to get people who are able to work part-time, how to get people with mental disabilities into work, and how, for example, students with mental disabilities in the second stage will be better cared for in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u212	Mr President! In the field of sports, youth, art and culture, there are many people who work with the support of grants. Associations that apply for grants often work hard with children and young people, so that good principles and ethics should be ensured as well as compliance with international agreements. The diversity of public sources of funding and the lack of uniform allocation principles may expose the system to exploitation and, at the same time, hamper control. Last autumn I asked a written question about a person working in the cultural field who was accused of trafficking in human beings — the process is still ongoing, but I asked a written question about it — and I would now like to ask the Minister what measures the government has taken, that now that the next grants have been awarded:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u213	President! This extension of compulsory education is a historic reform and this free-of-charge big act of equality. It helps families with low incomes in particular because of the cost of study equipment. There has been a great deal of concern here about how to prevent exclusion, and these instruments certainly have been there, and they will continue to be needed, but here is the good news that those students will always be the responsibility of someone up to the age of 18. Someone has been obliged to take care of it, the municipality or the provider of education, and there is also a low threshold in student care, when these problems arise, to go to school psychologists, curators and other social experts to discuss them. Of course, that aspect also needs to be strengthened. Now, at the age of 15, after primary school, some fall and disappear from radar, as it were. Perhaps some of the boys will meet in public the next time at an invitation and ask how things are going. Yes, this is a good reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u214	Mr President! The extension of the age of compulsory education is a real structural reform, and what the coalition has been saying for the last few months, the years: structural reforms. Now that you're making one, you're resisting. Why structural? It emphasises the responsibility of the organiser of basic education so that every young person starts secondary school, then the responsibility for guidance and supervision is transferred to the secondary organiser, who also has the task of monitoring and taking up the success of his or her studies, helps if there are problems, and then if there is serious interruption, then the municipality is obliged to catch up with this young person. Then the restructuring will include this law on preparatory education for qualifications, and, as Mr Kinnunen well said here,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u215	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson, I think it is a little understatement to say that we are not familiar. Yes, we're as good as we've been able to.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u218	This debate will be concluded by Mrs Eloranta, and then we will go to the ministers' speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u219	Mr President! Now it's important to take this big picture in your hands, what it's all about. There is much talk of creative destruction, of changing working life, of job losses. In the last 30 years, six hundred thousand jobs have been lost for which only primary school is sufficient — only two to three hundred thousand of them remain. We cannot allow young people to choose themselves out of working life, when in practice, however, the situation is that almost all young people after the ninth grade of the place of study receive but 16% do not. As a society, we cannot afford this, neither humanly nor economically. Then we must also consider the fact that two thirds of the new jobs will be created in sectors requiring higher education. It is not even enough for us to have that secondary education carried out, but we must ensure that more and more people achieve its level of higher education. In other words, we have a lot to do in this regard, among other things, with regard to the ongoing reform of learning. And it's quite a piety to talk about the early support when the previous government worsened.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u220	President! If I start with Mr S.H.I.E.L.D.'s good question as to how this reform would affect, for example, from the point of view of some 4,000 young people who are currently neglecting their compulsory education in primary school. Well, first of all, this reform will provide for a new legal form of guidance in basic education. In other words, contrary to what is widely claimed in the public domain, this reform does not only involve free learning materials and school travel support, but also includes new types of obligations: steering obligations for municipalities, as well as student guidance obligations, both in basic education and in secondary education. In other words, basic education becomes a new, enhanced form of guidance for eighth and ninth graders. Secondly, young people will also benefit from the additional contributions made to the services and dimensions of student and student care, as they will also cover the basic level. In addition to this, they will also benefit from this new, preparatory education, which will be renewed in the context of this reform, i.e. creating a new artisanal training which will also replace, for example, the additional education of basic education known as the tenth grade today. In addition, in OKM, we have prepared a new approach to preventing school drop-out, specifically to that part of the comprehensive school, which is to be reported at the information conference on Thursday this week, which will also present this broad set of compulsory education. Personally, I think it is extremely important that we can also strengthen multi-professional approaches even during primary school, that we receive the support that our social and health care professionals can provide increasingly as part of the daily lives of young people, as part of the range of services offered in schools and schools. As far as effective means are concerned, I would like to put a question to those opposition representatives who are opposed to this reform of compulsory education: are you able to identify one other measure or means which, according to the study, would be more effective in achieving this objective than the extension of compulsory education? That is something the experts have not been able to do. On the contrary, we have tried in Finland, we have had a separate project to reduce interruptions on the professional side of the second stage. We have had a youth guarantee, we have established Ohjaamo activities and we have established a search for youth work, but despite this and despite these targeted measures, this proportion of those who have not completed a secondary degree has persisted in it at around 15% throughout the 21st century. I can assure you that with the birth rates we have seen in this country, we as a nation cannot afford this development to continue as it is, and that is why we need this structural reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u222	Now we're changing sectors. — Correcting, Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u223	Mr President! — The previous President has promised a further floor for the reply. Representative Peltokangas was wondering if I would be prepared to add them here. I see it as a very effective way of raising the competence of Finns. And how to get there faster: I draw attention to the fact that in the amending budget decision, access to an open channel, the places of an open university and an open university, has been supported by EUR 10 million, and it is also one way towards a university degree. Yes, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, I have really drawn attention to this attractiveness of the social services sector, including the studies of the weariness of nurses and concerns as to whether there is any attraction, strength and permanence in the sector and therefore interest in the future as well, and I am also putting this research project into motion in the Ministry in the same way as I did a year ago with regard to teacher training, which also showed worrying signs. More representatives, including representatives of the false and Honkasalo, have been concerned here about the corona crisis of cultural operators and how without their own fault there are no gigs on the calendar, and no one would want to support only the public, and if they are not available, what can be done. Culture has been supported, as I said earlier, by some EUR 80 million now in the supplementary budgets, and I am now preparing for an amending budget — on the seventh of the year — now a new package of aid, specifically designed to take into account these so-called freelancers, the cultural players in the free field, whose calendar is virtually empty now, even for those in fixed places, for example, in theatres, is not enough work. The cultural field is very fragmented, more beautifully diverse and multidimensional, and therefore the forms of support are not quite easy to arrange. In practice, these smallest grants and direct grants to individual artists will be targeted through regional Taike actors. Last but not least, Mr President, I would like to raise these many important issues with regard to the Finnish model of hobby, which was raised by Mr Eskelinen, among others. It is progressing, and I think it is another important structural reform in this administrative sector of this regime, alongside compulsory schooling. Every Finnish child and young person, regardless of their home background, wealth and place of residence, is entitled to a hobby when we know that it has a good effect on the self-esteem and friends of young and young people. Now the pilots are in the search, and I encourage all of you in your home communities to take this pleasure and pick up these pilots for children and young people — and no, as you asked us, we did not allow this to be disturbed by the corona, but we felt that this project still had to move forward. Next year, the budget will have EUR 14.5 million of permanent money to implement this in Finnish municipalities and in connection with school days.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u224	And now we've been to this administration, and we're going to the Ministry of the Interior. — — — — Secretary Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u225	Mr President! In the draft budget for 21 years, approximately EUR 1.568 billion is proposed for the section of the Ministry of the Interior. The police will account for approximately EUR 850 million, the Border Guard will account for approximately EUR 277 million, the Emergency Response and Emergency Response Services will account for just under EUR 80 million, and immigration will account for approximately EUR 207 million. The level of appropriations in the administrative sector will increase by EUR 39 million compared to the 2020 actual budget. I would like to raise a few issues in the draft budget, an increase of EUR 4.1 million to the police to strengthen criminal investigations and increase the refugee quota to the level of 1050 persons in accordance with the Government Programme. The human resources of the police will be increased in the fight against trafficking in human beings, in sparsely populated areas and in the fight against financial crime. Additional resources are now being allocated to sparsely populated areas to reduce police response times and ensure access to police services. With a resource increase in the fight against the shadow economy and financial crime in the capital region, measures against the grey economy included in the Government Programme will also be implemented. The group on the detection and investigation of trafficking in human beings established in the police has a key role to play in the fight against trafficking in human beings. It strengthens the capacity of the police to address this serious form of hidden crime and its consequences. In line with the Government Programme, other measures against the shadow economy will also be extended and accelerated to reduce the tax deficit. In addition, an investment-like increase of EUR 10 million is proposed to the police to maintain performance. Additional funding has been allocated to, inter alia, vehicle investments to halt the repair debt and other operational capacity investments. Border guards have become obsolete and must be replaced in order not to jeopardise the protection of the Baltic Sea against oil accidents and maritime border control. This repair debt cannot be transferred, and EUR 5 million is now being proposed for the design of ships, and the aim is to secure the financing of actual investments in future amending budgets. A total of approximately EUR 277 million is proposed for the Border Guard. The Agency shall be provided with investments in, inter alia, the ETIAS Passenger Information and Authorisation System, the permanent forces of the European Border and Coast Guard, the security of border security performance and the number of border guards and the improvement of the security of premises. In addition, additional funding will be provided for changes to the national information systems required for the renewal of the Schengen Information System. A total of approximately EUR 79 million is proposed for emergency services and emergency centre operations. In order to safeguard the education and training activities of the emergency school, to improve the quality of education and to support research and development activities, the budget provides an increase of EUR 2.4 million for the coming year in accordance with the spending limits decision. The corresponding increase is also in the framework of 22 C.E. This will ensure adequate and competent personnel from rescue services and urgent access to human assistance. An increase of half a million euros is proposed in the framework for the security of emergency services’ resources. A total of approximately EUR 207 million is proposed for immigration. The number of quota refugees received by Finland will be increased to 1050. The number of quota refugees to be admitted shall be estimated on an annual basis taking into account the total number of asylum seekers. The world has more people left behind because of various conflicts than ever after world wars. Finland must play its part in global crises and help people in need. The reception of quota refugees is an effective way of helping the most vulnerable refugees, and I am pleased that we have agreed to increase the quota as agreed in the Government Programme. In the draft budget, the Finnish Immigration Service is presented with an increase of EUR 8 million in the spending limits decision for the dismantling of congestion and automation of work and study-based residence permit applications, as well as for the maintenance and development of UMA, an electronic processing system for foreign affairs, of EUR 4 million. These additions support the Government's objective of increasing work-related immigration. Mr President! As shown by the additional efforts carried out above, the Government's draft budget will improve the implementation of fundamental and human rights and the position of the most vulnerable and improve police resources, in particular to address serious crime effectively and ensure the capacity of the police to act in sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u226	Let's go to the debat. Chairman of the Committee, represented by Mr Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u227	Mr President! Yesterday, we heard from the police again about a case in which a group of youths had decided to rob teenage boys with a knife. The victim was hospitalized. Almost all similar cases do not appear because young people do not want to report a crime. Phones are being taken, wallets are being taken, even brand-new clothes from off the top. Some videos tell us which school students have the best and most expensive gadgets. We're on the road to Sweden. Immigrant gangs, minors, mugging, assaulting, vandalizing. It's been going on there for years, and it's growing here. My own firstborn is also 15 years old and moves daily in Helsinki. We have had to discuss this issue. I ask the Minister what you are doing about this? Is it right for parents to fear the wonderful, free youth of their children in independent Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u228	Mr President! I will continue with what the chairman of the committee has said: these crimes, in particular against the lives and health of children and young people, and also against property. They are crimes that are particularly terrible and cause a lot of long-term suffering for the victim. I would ask the Minister if we could think of legislative updates in such a way that crimes against children and young people would also have such a certain period of investigation guarantee? That they would be prioritised when it comes to a victim who is a child or a young person? Second thing, international recruits. You told me there's resources coming in to maintain the UMA. The Coalition Party has suggested that companies that are repeatedly recruited could be accredited and thus promised that they will be able to have their work permits in good condition within a month. How has this joint performance guidance for TEM and SM worked and speeded up processes, and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u229	Mr President! Thank you to the government for proposing an additional budget of EUR 4.1 million for the 2021 budget to increase the human resources of the police. This human resources will be increased not only in the fight against trafficking in human beings but also in sparsely populated areas and in the fight against financial crime. Additional resources are now being allocated to sparsely populated areas to ensure police response times and access to police services. More than one million Finns live outside urban areas. I would like to ask the Minister: how can their sense of security be strengthened, as opposed to what the Police Government and the Police Chiefs want? And are you, as Minister, prepared to give political guidance in order to ensure a sufficient number of police services are maintained in a limited number of areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u230	Mr President! It should be stressed that, in this difficult economic situation, the government wants to invest in the safety of Finns and also to secure the activities and resources of the authorities. Just like the representative. The column here highlighted these significant additional resources for the police, more than EUR 4 million for the recruitment of additional staff, are a significant contribution. These additional resources will be directed specifically at the fight against trafficking in human beings and also at the fight against financial crime. This is a sensible course of action, for this fight against financial crime also brings more resources to society. I would also like the opposition to recognise the importance of these measures. I would like to ask the Minister what ambitious objectives are to be set up for this police-based unit for trafficking in human beings, given these resources?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u231	Mr President! These police appropriations: it is a very good thing that they have been increased and that more police resources are being made available in those sparsely populated areas. I would like to ask the Minister about these response times as to what target dates are planned. And then there's another thing. I'm worried about the amount of juvenile delinquency. Would it be possible for us to restore to the system that police officers would go to school from primary school to tell us about the responsibilities that will follow if crimes are involved and what the responsibilities of juvenile delinquents will be when a crime has been committed? This would help prevent these crimes from occurring. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u232	Irade the Talman! Det oxåret har variant exceptionellt för många. Vid sidan av sjukårdspersonalen är en av de yrkskårer som sett den största praktiska förändringen gränsbevakarna. Då de inre gränskontrollerna återinförts har gränsbevakarna behövt bevaka också de inre gränserna till Norden och till Europa — en exceptionell åtgård.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u233	Mr President! The Ministry of the Interior aims to make Finland the safest and well-being country in the world. At the same time, the government is very positive about immigration from developing countries and is trying to increase it by various means. The facts are harsh. On humanitarian grounds and through family reunification, the employment rate in the country is poor and does not improve much with time. There is also a strong legacy of exclusion. More than half of the income support customers in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area are of foreign origin, one in three in the whole country. Over-representation in robbery and violent crime statistics is staggering, and these crimes typically fall victim to young people and women. I would ask the Minister: do you see that the ongoing development is economically and socially sustainable? Does immigration support the goal of becoming the safest country in the world?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u234	Mr President! The security authorities responsible for our security deserve the resources and powers they need. The EUR 4.1 million proposed in this budget is a good increase, but insufficient in relation to this target. In Finland, the number of police officers in relation to the population is among the lowest in the whole of Europe and is also significantly low in relation to the other Nordic countries. The government's proposal to set up a group on the detection and investigation of trafficking in human beings in the police is certainly excellent and will certainly be necessary, but it would also have required an increase in the number of police officers of 7500 person-years in accordance with the government's programme. In order to increase the number of police officers, the police in recent years have had to find the money largely inside the administrative sector. Consequently, the increase in the number of Htvs has been excluded from other activities. This isn't gonna happen again, is it? The direction does not seem right, for the morning paper just this week wrote that 11 police officers
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u235	Mr President! Much has been said about organisations and about the collapse of the revenue of Veikkaus, which is closely linked to the activities of many organisations, but I now want to talk more about gambling policy in general. With regard to gambling policy, the Government Programme mentions the effective prevention of gambling disadvantages and the directing of gambling to a legal, responsible and controlled gambling offering. The Government Programme aims to safeguard Veikkaus' ability to channel exclusivity and operating conditions in a rapidly changed operating environment. Veikkaus has recently taken responsibility actions by reducing the number of gaming machines, and next year there is going to be mandatory authentication for all games. This is the right direction, of course much remains to be done. All these objectives of the Government Programme require a reform of the lottery law, and I would like to ask, Minister, when we will have the government's proposal for a new lottery law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u236	Mr President! In the Government Programme, the so-called ‘spinning board’ model is recorded, where the refugee quota changes according to the situation of asylum seekers. During this term of government, there have been far fewer asylum seekers arriving in Finland than before, and we can now slightly increase the quota of refugees, from 850 to 1050, i.e. to the maximum of the government programme. This will help people in the refugee camp, who are most likely to be genuinely in need of help. I think it is important to remember that whenever we talk about refugee policy, we talk about people. From the point of view of maintaining a sustainable asylum and refugee policy, the fight against illegal trafficking by criminals is essential. Now that the EU's common asylum policy is being reformed, I would like to ask the Minister for Responsibility what kind of objectives Finland has in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u237	Mr President! According to reports, online hate and bullying have increased. Especially women and girls experience it and face it. The online hatred is different when it comes to women and men as targets. Women face more sexism and sexual harassment online in particular. In fact, women and girls are 27 times more likely to encounter harassment on the Internet than men. This kind of activity, in which people are harassed and bullied online, threatens even freedom of expression. Many women and girls do not want to participate in a public debate on the Internet, fearing to face attacks, harassment and threats. I ask you, Minister, what can we do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u238	Mr President! It is a good thing that crime prevention is being committed, but I am still surprised at the record of hate speech prevention. What was before normal, healthy criticism is often hate speech today. And when you follow the social media and the opinions and comments of the so-called hate speech police, it is obvious that hate speech has been made into a stick horse to spread the ideology of the Green Red Government. And that has also led to the police, with their tweets and their participation in demonstrations, publicly following the ideologies of the government. Such a development is dangerous. What measures does the Minister of Responsibility intend to take to eliminate the popular faith and otherwise good police activity of politicised social policemen?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u240	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. I noticed here that the reform of the rescue services that we are now doing has been slightly corrected in terms of funding, and that is a very good thing, because there were problems there. And it is a good thing that we now have the state control that I was preparing at the time, fortunately you have continued to do so. But the only thing I am still worried about is that now do not let it go under the so-called sots, but that they will be side by side in the welfare area, just as they have been until now, the administrative part. Because it's kind of like a cuckoo in a nest, that's where no one else can get any more money. So stand up for the rescue. I'd ask you about the online police situation, and then about the Ankkuri model, it's not in every police station and precinct. I hope you'll expand it. Child abuse. What have you done to prevent these terrible crimes from happening?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u241	Mr President! The reform of the social, health and rescue sectors has taken a step forward today. The rescue measure is part of this reform and perhaps the public debate has not yet gained the weight it deserves. There are approximately 15,000 fire brigades in Finland, and last year there were more than 45,000 alarm departures from the fire brigades. The EU Court of Justice and the Supreme Court have now interpreted the reserve of firefighters as working time. This will increase the pressure on rescue costs briskly. Contract fire brigades are a key player in the rescue service. There is a major threat that in the future the funds earmarked for the security of the start of the fire brigades will be transferred to the recruitment of professional firefighters in the largest agglomerations and the conditions for the operation of the fire brigades will be reduced in the future. Minister, will the contract firemen be appointed by the local authorities who agree on the terms of their reserve, or what will happen to the fire brigades in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u242	Mr President! Last year, Minister Ohio, you often raised the issue of well-being at work and working in this Chamber debate, and I am asking now why the post-traumatic workshops in the rescue service are still outside the budget and are forced to seek funding from various channels in the form of grants. I'd like to ask if you've considered this. Then the second question relates to immigration. You are saying here that immigration is controlled and socially sustainable, supportive of vitality, and you are preventing and combating illegal immigration and immigration, among other things. What have you done for these records in concrete terms? And third of the police department. There is a chronic shortage of resources, that is, a chronic shortage of resources, and this money cannot possibly be enough, even though 4.1 million is a good start. Why did you not use this climate money, which is now going to 10 million, directly on police resources?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u243	Mr President! More tasks and demands are being placed on the police here: there is more prevention, there are fewer patrols, fewer response times, more crime prevention, the fight against trafficking in human beings and financial crime. All the good things in themselves, but what has been forgotten is to make the fight against daily crime more effective. There is the worst mist, and it eats up the public's sense of justice in this society of ours. We should have made it more efficient. 4.1 million is a good deal, but that's not enough. We currently have unemployed police officers, those who have not been given a job when they have graduated from polytechnics, including those whose deadline has expired. They're unemployed. You won't even be able to get to the 7,500 police officers you promised on the government program. So let me just ask you this: what will you do to ensure that unemployed policemen are put to work, and what will you do to ensure that at least the 7,500 police officers, which is the absolute minimum?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u244	Mr President! The number of quota refugees will rise to 1050 in accordance with the Government Programme. In the early part of the previous term, more than 30,000 asylum seekers arrived in Finland. Over the last few years, a few thousand of them have come. The refugee quota takes people from refugee camps; they are genuinely in need of help. The "studboard" model means that the refugee quota is determined in accordance with the asylum-seekers' situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u247	Let us take Mr Hänninen and then Minister Ohio's answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u248	Mr President! There has been a good debate here, and I too would like to thank you for investing in internal security and increasing police funds. But I myself would highlight the changes in the situation and reserve of this rescue service that have now been applied to the entire kingdom. Many rescue services have urgently had to change practices, but there is a risk that we will soon have different diverse practices at national level, which can also at worst lead to disparities between regions in terms of the speed with which aid is available. I would ask you, Minister: in what way do we secure the status of firefighters in this rescue operation as a whole, and in what way do we ensure the availability of adequate and professional rescue personnel throughout Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u249	And now the answer to both this and other questions, Minister Ohio, and then the debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u250	Mr President! Thank you for your good comments and comments. I'm gonna put it down a little bit. Here are some of the delegates who asked about the fire brigade operation. There has already been a strategy in the Ministry for its development, a strategy that has just been completed, and of course the Ministry will support this work in the regions to strengthen and develop the fire service activities. It is an absolutely central part of our rescue effort and everything. A lot of people asked me about police resources in the first place. I would like to refute the argument put forward here that the government is not going to reach that 7,500. The government is constantly taking steps towards it. This year, the total number of man-years was increased by around 80, and next year we will continue with this additional resource, that is, those who go to combat trafficking in human beings, those who go into thin areas as new patrols and economic crime prevention, tens of new man-years across Finland. In particular, for this sparse area patrol, I would like to point out that we have a difficult situation in Northern and Eastern Finland, for example, where the real need for people's help is exactly the same as elsewhere, but there are no patrols available, and that is why there will be a concrete increase in the number of new patrols in these areas. So the government is moving forward with this increase in the number of police officers. I also hope that everyone who is interested in raising the number of police officers and who sees the lack of resources that have been there for a long time will also commit themselves to the big objective of increasing and increasing the number of police funds after this reign. Representative to Rantanen: I personally believe that post-traumatic workshops should be part of that very basic work, always involved in everyday life. There should be no separate application for funding for such activities. A very important entity. The programme to combat illegal entry and residence is currently being updated at the Ministry. And you asked me about $10 million extra cash. If I understood correctly that you referred to my speech, I meant that next year the police will receive 10 million extras for the purchase of equipment. Knowing that the patrol will not leave without proper equipment and protective equipment for the field, that is why this additional money is very necessary. Representative Risiko on this role of rescue: It is absolutely essential to maintain it precisely in such a way that it is an independent, old operator, not an subordinate to the war. That is what we have been holding on to, and this is a very shared vision in the ministerial working group. For example, to Mr Pitko and perhaps to Mr Peltokanka together: democracy is, of course, one of the things we should be able to criticise and openly discuss, but it does not include threatening or harassing or persecuting, and that is what we are unfortunately seeing. This is something we are trying to address, among other things, by increasing the resources of the police, so that every person can bring up these issues,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u255	You will continue — a long list of questions will also be — you will continue. — Let us take further questions here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u256	Mr President! The number of police officers will be increased, the visibility of the police in sparsely populated areas will be increased. In practice, however, police stations are now being driven down in the sparsely populated area and police posts are being transferred and concentrated on larger stations. Take examples from Eastern Finland: Suonenjoki station, Juankoski station. The police are being transferred to the main police station in Kuopio and then the police missions in these sparsely populated areas are being carried out from there. There is so much going on in every direction that it means that, for example, drink - driving duties are directly monitored, and that time will be long enough to look at the barrel of a shotgun, no matter how fast the police will drive there. I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior at this point: How does such an arrangement increase the police’s vision of thin areas, and in what way does this increase the public’s sense of security? And in what way will the number of policemen increase? This seems more like a trick of a twist, don't you think?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u257	President! According to experts from the Finnish Immigration Service, certain cleaning and construction companies employ foreign cheap labour. When the short employment relationship ends, Kela's social security system immediately begins to run. Cooperation between the authorities between Kela and the Finnish Immigration Service does not run and information on the unemployed of the residence permit holder is not available to persons working on the residence permit process. The matter will not be brought up until one year later in the application for a renewal permit, but then living on social security in Finland during the period of residence is no longer a reason to refuse an extension. Squirrel wheel's ready. This enables a foreign person to be granted a residence permit, even if the income is not proven sufficient to live in Finland. Why do you accept this equation and when will the flow of information between Kela and Migri be harmonised?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u258	Mr President! The realisation of fundamental and human rights is the value which I hope is why each of us has sought the work of a Member of Parliament — to promote equality for every person. The greatest threat to our society is exclusion and the fact that a person feels that he is not part of it: it is not appropriate, sufficient or correct. Two weeks ago, Parliament discussed how to reduce bullying, marginalisation and violence in schools and how to stop it. The fact that we are discussing who is right for us and who is not will not solve this exclusion. One key to reducing the mental ill health of young people and combating juvenile delinquency is to put an end to the continuing confrontation. My question is: what does the government intend to do to promote greater integration into society of people at risk of exclusion?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u259	Mr President! The decision by the police government on the payment of police assistance to social services has given rise to quite a stir. It is estimated that it will take away some 2 to 3 million dollars a year from social services. Is this supposed to continue? Then we'll go to these sparsely populated areas. It is great that there will now be additional resources for patrols, and it seemed particularly satisfied with this additional allocation of equipment. Yesterday I met with the East Finland Police Department. But then the very police stations of Kite, Juankoski, the Suonenjoki River came up. Even if the services of official assistance and authorisation and advisory services remain there, then patrols and staff will have to move around the provinces. I don't understand how it's gonna get us those extra resources, either. Even with more patrols, maybe it's worth it... And when you're doing this little thing, you know?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u260	Mr President, ärade talman! With great joy, we welcome this decision in the budget to set up such a police investigation team to combat and expose trafficking in human beings. In fact, since 2010, Parliament has already asked for it to be implemented, because it has proved to have been one of the most important ways in which we can improve our investigation of crime specifically in human trafficking, because it requires specific expertise. And Finland has in fact recently even received comments from the OSCE Special Representative for Trafficking in Human Beings that Finland's prosecution and conviction rates are very low compared to their identification. We have learned a great deal in twenty years, yet we have not quite reached the finish line, and this is, of course, a very serious crime. I'd like to ask you how you're feeling.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u261	Mr President! The draft budget of the Ministry of the Interior contains strong increases in the cost of immigration, which is particularly true at a time like this when we have an historic corona crisis, which is extraordinary, unacceptable, even immoral. But if this concept of refugees were to be extended in the direction advocated by the centre, that the basis for refugees would even be poverty, then these funds would not be enough. You said, Minister, that accepting quota refugees would be an effective way of helping refugees in camps. How many people in the camp could be supported instead of one who was taken to Finland? Would it not be the case that, in fact, this implementation of fundamental and human rights will be damaged if the government takes people from refugee camps to Finland instead of helping people to live there in the camps? So is your claim that this would be an effective way of helping refugees, even the untruthful one?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u262	Mr President! The aim of the Elo rebellion movement is to disrupt and draw people's attention to the severity of the climate crisis through civil disobedience, i.e. illegal activity. According to a police government report, the Elo-rebel protestors were responsible for 3.10. interference and obstacles to public transport, as well as the danger to demonstrators and police officers, through their illegal activities. During the demonstration, 24 police patrols were closed for several hours. During that time, the alerts were delayed. So I ask Minister Ohio: will you allow this illegal activity, and is this a sensible use of police resources?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u263	Mr President! It is said that the most dangerous point is the moment that nothing matters anymore. It is the moment when desperate actions are taken or broken down by violating one’s security. The drift of society is always not only a human tragedy at its worst but also a major social threat. We are most effective in preventing the experience of non-participation and the search for communityism in the criminal community by ensuring that everyone gets to feel that they are part of this society and by ensuring that everyone has a place on this side of the law as well. The root causes by identifying and tackling them in time are the most effective means of preventing crime, but we must succeed in preventing young people from drifting into crime and, on the other hand, we must succeed in helping out when habits or people around us hold onto the network of organised crime, for example. It is extremely important that the resources of the authorities to prevent crime are now strengthened and radicalisation is being prevented. However, I would also like to ask the Minister of State how the government intends to increase internal security by preventing exclusion and, for example, through the use of spirals of crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u264	Mr President! I would like to ask Minister Ohio what it means on page 192 in the budget book that we ‘promote immigration that supports the vitality of Finland’. That there's gonna be income limits? That we're paying attention to security? I've never heard anything like it play here. Does that mean that we are preventing and combating illegal immigration and immigration, as stated in the budget book? Here I appeal to the press release that the Ministry of the Interior had on 7.10. There was a network of 90 experts in this area to investigate illegal stay in the country — well, the survey actually uses the term ‘persons without a residence permit’, not to use ‘illegal presence in the country’. There, for example, the pawn control we have been waiting for is apparently turning into a service network. This is a huge attraction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u265	Mr President! In the area of the Inland Finland Police Department, 36 police posts ended at the turn of September/October. Of these replacements in the Pirkanmaa area, 11 police officers were left without a new job. I ask: why, in this situation, when the number of policemen should increase, are there still replacements being used, and this funding is becoming like a piece of money? It is a very demanding and unpleasant way of dealing with the work of employees and the police department. Intelligence legislation. We have new intelligence legislation introduced last year. If you could comment with a few words on how the legislation has met your expectations: will control, law enforcement work? Has this activity at all been appropriate? Have there been any hopes regarding the content of the legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u266	Mr President! Representative Meri, we streamline the permit processes for work-related immigration. Skilled personnel are a prerequisite for the growth of our companies. On the other hand, I would like to thank the government for the number of quota refugees. Lifting means that we can help the most vulnerable, people with disabilities, children and families and receive people from prolonged refugee conditions. The number of quota refugees in the world at a time when camp conditions are threatened as a corona and people have fled their homes because of conflicts and persecution is, according to the UN Refugee Agency, more than ever, 79.5 million. Trafficking in human beings. In Espoo and Vantaa, we have received a position on cleaning in the city's procurements recently. The result of trafficking in human beings is increasingly blackmailing a person with an immigrant background who is applying for a residence permit as a condition for employment. How We Can Through Authorisation Processes
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u267	Mr President! The police failed to investigate nearly 140,000 criminal cases in 18 C.E. The police identify for the prosecutor, for example, interpreting costs, international legal aids and the amount of work to be heard, i.e. in practice the amount of work to be carried out in relation to an individual act. The Finnish police have publicly admitted that in certain situations the police will decide that the investigation costs too much and that the investigation is no longer reasonable. According to the Deputy Prosecutor General, the limitation of pre-graduate qualifications may undermine general law-abiding. According to him, this phenomenon is mainly due to the resources of the authorities: the police are proposing to restrict the pre-trial investigation because the resources are not sufficient to investigate all crimes. I ask the Minister for the Interior: will next year's police budget increase the number of pre-trial examinations carried out, or will the trend of unexplored criminal cases continue over the next few years?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u268	Mr President! It has been reported this week that we may soon be in a situation where more crimes are committed under the influence of drugs than are committed under the influence of alcohol. The drugs situation is worrying and must be dealt with with with sufficient seriousness. The problem of drugs is not only solved by penalties, but also a significant part of the solution is that all those who need it will have access to the treatment they need and when they need it. However, since we are now discussing the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior, it should not be forgotten that the security and border authorities must also have sufficient resources and means to tackle drug-related crime. I would now like to ask how this worsening situation has been taken into account in the draft budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u269	Mr President! When an accident occurs in society or a disturbance caused by various causes, the authorities are alerted to help, and the police and emergency staff are often the first to arrive. In Finland, cooperation between the authorities is a central part of a stable society, and I too have been amazed at the direction in which the authorities would increasingly start to bill each other. The subject of paid police services has now been discussed, for example, for social services. Is this a deliberate reality and is this the direction to the future? There has also been police school dismantling in northern Savo, for example, on the river Suonen. I consider this to be a bad development because it jeopardises the availability of services that citizens need. The distances are long and I hope the Minister will explain why, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u270	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about police resources, and that is an important issue. In Finland, we are used to trusting the police. Representative Laiho raised Elokapina and how police resources were used in that connection, but there is another issue involved, and that is how police officers are viewed today. If you look at social media, for example, there are more and more comments that try to undermine the confidence of Finns in the police, and that is a very worrying phenomenon to me. I would be interested to know the position of the Minister for the Interior: have you yourself noticed this phenomenon and what you think of it? But in addition to that, Mr President, I would like to ask one more question about immigration. In the last period, the Assembly proposed a national border procedure for the asylum application process, i.e.:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u271	Mr President! The EU is once again working on a burden-sharing mechanism for migrants. Contrary to what has been done in Australia, which has been returning migrants across the sea to their country of origin, the EU intends to build a launcher whose idea is: when you pay for human smugglers, we will take care of the rest of the route. This promise will trigger huge migrations of young men, and they will not remain to develop their own country. Instead, children, women and the elderly who are genuinely in need are in refugee camps. Home Secretary Ohio, are you going to say ‘no’ to the EU’srenewal burden-sharing system, which is not just,which is irresponsible,and whichextremere resources in the face ofneeded eyes? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u272	Mr President! I will return to this matter of human resources for the police. We have now been pleased or delighted that this EUR 4.1 million comes into these resources. That is a good thing, of course, but if we look back a little bit on what this is really about, then before the last elections, all the political parties committed themselves to raising the number of policemen to 7850 during this parliamentary term. Then, when the government program came, it said that by 2022 7,500 police officers would be pursued. And now, as has been mentioned here, we have had to put an end to certain fixed-term contracts. The Minister then says here that he hopes that more police will be produced in the next parliamentary term. I therefore ask why you cannot now push for what all parties promised before the elections to be carried out and for this matter of police resources to be put right?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u273	Mr President! This increase in the refugee quota to 1050 seems to me to be all right, because it is people who really need help. This is the least we can do at the moment. Norway currently receives 3000 quota refugees per year, Sweden 5000 quota refugees per year. If you think about last year, the number of quota refugees was 850. Then there is this aspect of integration, and I ask the Minister: how effective are we in managing the integration of these refugees into Finnish conditions and into Finnish life?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u275	Mr President! In the coming years and decades, Finland will need a great deal of international recruitment in order to respond to the problems of the availability of skilled labour, which are already true today. We have a challenging demographic structure: the birth rate is falling, and Finland is ageing. The question really is this: what have the government and Minister Ohio done to promote Finland's becoming an attractive and attractive country for experts and their families? These licensing processes are relevant to this issue, and our international companies are already reporting on the problems and difficulties of the authorisation. In fact, right now would be a good time to recruit international experts in Finland even in the middle of the corona. We have a better corona situation than in many other countries. Many other countries have made it difficult for experts to enter, such as Trump in America, and with Brexit the situation in Britain has also changed in this regard. We have a stable country, a safe country, we have a good education system, we have beautiful nature, technology skills. What the government does,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u276	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the role of Customs. Although customs is an authority subject to the VM, it is nevertheless a key actor in internal security. The Government is now directing EUR 10 million to Customs for additional resources, which is a very welcome step and is now geared specifically to the additional resource needs resulting from the increase in the VAT threshold that will come into force next year. Mr President! Then the second internal security operator is the Emergency Response Centre. Around the field, all over Finland, various emergency centres hear a message about the challenges and problems of the personnel. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how the government is now responding to the problems of the work of these various emergency centres and trying to send them the message that their work will be valuable in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u277	Representative Halla-aho, followed by the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u278	President! In the shadow of Korona, the government, and the Ministry of the Interior in particular, have tried to undermine the already weak credibility of the asylum system by various means. I would mention in particular the extension of the right to work of asylum seekers and those who have received negative asylum decisions. These legislative changes were justified by the lack of labour in agriculture. Minister Ohio, you often emphasise the importance of facts and research in decision-making. I therefore assume that you have followed the effects of these changes very closely. Will you tell us how many people involved in these changes have been employed during the summer and autumn, for example, on farms? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u279	Now, Minister Ohio, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u280	Mr President! Ledamot Löfström väckte en väldigt bra fråga om de Svenskspråkiga poliserna, och jag har hört Ålands oro om detta. Det betyder att vi kommer att behöva fler poliser som också pratar svenska, i utbildningen, på fältet — i hela Finland men också på Åland. Det har vi hört valdigt bra.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u281	Mr President! The economy of the municipalities is in turn, which we all know has been in a rather weak situation in the last few years. Since then, interest has been a further challenge for both the economy and the operation. This is what the government has tried to respond to and respond to with significant contributions. The total amount of aid for the years 20 and 21 is over EUR 5 billion, and this is proportionate to the normal share of municipalities per year, which is EUR 7.3 billion. This aid will be divided into EUR 2.5 billion in the 21st budget and this figure will rise to 2.6 in total for these amending budgets. Of this, less than 3 billion will be distributed by changing the share of municipal corporation tax and by increasing the central government share of basic services and supporting health care districts, i.e. joint municipal authorities, directly by EUR 400 million. Costs directly related to the interest rate situation, including testing, technology, health safety at border crossing points and other related costs, will be fully reimbursed to municipalities. A total of EUR 2 billion will be earmarked for this over the period 20-21. The maximum amount of EUR 200 million will be paid to the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa for border testing, capacity building and analysis activities at airports and ports. In addition, the government will make a separate investment of EUR 450 million for the three-year period for the winding-up of the care and care debt. In addition to direct financial support, municipalities will be opposed by extending the coverage of the deficit — a law that will be presented to Parliament tomorrow. This is of great importance to municipalities and their ability to maintain services and to exercise the fundamental rights of residents. It is important that municipalities do not incur excessive costs as a result of the interest rate. This is what the government has been willing to do. Then there is the other side, i.e. Senate information system investments and strategies. Next year's budget proposes an increase of approximately EUR 100 million in the investment mandate for the Senate Group's business and defence property, i.e. a total of just under EUR 500 million. The implementation of works in the post-emergency recovery phase, so to speak, is, of course, economically sensible. In the coming year alone, some 50 investments of more than EUR 5 million will be launched across the country. We are preparing a list of these. The quality of public administration’s work will also be improved through investment in information systems. Their importance has increased with telework and especially with the experience of this corona. The budget, for example — this is just one example — presents 3 million for the technological reform of the common financial and human resources management information system for our joint service centre Palkee. Wages are a great example of how increased productivity has been achieved through centralisation of public administration support services. Several Government strategies have also been prepared this year under the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, in which the municipal court has also been strongly involved in the preparations through the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. The public procurement strategy, the urban strategy and the strategy for regionalisation reform have already been completed. The public administration’s strategy will be completed next month, so next year the main focus will be on the implementation of all of these for which funding is provided in the 21st budget. One concrete element of the implementation of the public administration strategy will also be the reform of the public administration service network. At the same time, we are also working on an operational strategy here, linked to this public administration. In the future, the role of e-services as the primary service channel will be emphasised, but at the same time, the visitation and adequate support for the use of e-services must be secured. These are things we are now moving forward at the same time, and I am very happy to present this good budget to the municipalities in particular, so that services can be produced and not extra costs to the municipalities, but can also avoid layoffs and layoffs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u282	Thank you, Minister Paatero, and then to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u283	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. Just as you said, we all know, and the reason for this is not the interest rate. Debting in most municipalities is entirely structural, and indeed even gold pigs such as Espoo are in trouble. It has not been enough for taxpayers and corporate tax. What is striking in many municipalities is that tax revenues do not develop favorably, even though population growth is good. Of course, ageing is a chronic problem, which we all know, and it causes costs, but even young adults do not seem to increase tax revenues. In Uusimaa, taxes paid by young adults have collapsed. Nothing will put the municipalities in order, except that their tasks are reduced, they are prioritised. However, the Government increases the functions of municipalities. I'd like to speak with the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u284	Mr President! The Government has decided that the reduction in early childhood education contributions will be compensated for by a change in the share of corporation tax. I ask you now, Mr Paatero: why? The corporation tax is not appropriate to compensate for the reduction in early childhood education contributions, as it is not subject to increasing tax revenues for municipalities losing payments. Example of Oulu, my hometown: A few years ago, the birth rate was one of the highest in the country, 2,500 children a year, and we are one of the youngest cities in Europe. This corporate tax revenue is considerably lower than that of many other large cities, although we have a high birth rate and there are much more children in early childhood education. Why is this reduction in contributions not compensated for by the State contribution to basic services?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u285	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for his presentation on local government finances. After all, the local government economy is known to have been in a very bad state, and in that sense this government package of over five billion dollars is a significant hand-out and an indication that the need for local government finances has been heard in the government. Thank you for that. It will make the daily lives of local government finance decision-makers much easier in preparing the future budget for municipalities. However, I would like to ask the Minister about this VOS system: How do you see whether there is a need for a more thorough renovation of the VOS system and strengthening the tax base of municipalities? After all, it has been customary for income tax reductions to be taken from there by means of municipal tax, which means that there is little in the municipal wallet to give taxpayers rebates. Do you think there's a need for this system to do some kind of bigger renovation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u286	Mr President! The government has been called upon to take major steps to improve employment in this Chamber too, and that is a good thing. In this acute crisis, state aid to municipalities has been essential for the provision of all basic services, but it is also essential for employment. The interest-rate crisis does not reduce the tax revenues of municipalities as much as was feared in the spring, partly because, for example, the share of corporation tax was increased and that increase will continue with this budget. Support will be allocated to municipalities in many ways for next year, even though important additional tasks such as extending compulsory education and care and reducing early childhood education fees will increase the need for resources. I would like to ask the Minister: what does the income from corporation tax look like for future or future years, when it is one of the major forms of municipal support?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u287	Mr President! The Minister explained the situation in the Senate buildings, how money is now being invested in repairing and putting these buildings — a matter that has long come from these different sides, such as the Raja and the police, to say that the premises have not been sufficient. And when they have been repaired, even though it is done with this budget money, it always comes up with this rent. The money that is given here to these operators is going to be taken away by the lessee. I have the impression that we are in the process of developing a system there, how to get this thing right. In what way is it intended to intervene in such a way that Senate properties are not taken up, sometimes too large rents are drawn?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u288	Mr President! A support package for municipalities is necessary, but what does the government intend to do to ensure that services can also be secured in the long term? The financial position of municipalities is historically difficult. According to the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, the corona crisis will weaken the local government finances by EUR 1.7 billion next year and the deficit in the local government sector will increase to EUR 4 billion in history. Despite this support, many municipalities are in practice forced to go into debt, raise taxes or cut basic services that are important to people. This equation is poorly suited to the fact that the government today announced in the Social Security Information that 13,26 tax units are being removed from municipal tax revenue. For example, Tampere's tax rate is less than 7, less than 5 in Helsinki, which should handle services, investments and debts. It looks bad. The State aid for health care districts will not be extended in 21 C.E. Why is the government not using this form of aid, which is most effective in targeting where the effects of the interest rate have been greatest? The Coalition Party presented this in April as part of the municipal rescue package, as the support through the VOS system was not targeted effectively.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u289	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for actively seeking solutions and supporting the economic crisis in the municipalities. But I would also like to raise this debate — you mentioned it in your introductory speech — with this recent national urban strategy, which has been completed by the Ministry of Finance. As many as 36 cities and several ministries have been involved. It is precisely urban-state partnerships that are sought here in terms of how cities can lead the way and lead the way in many areas. As cities are the platforms for knowledge, research, development and business at their best and the developers of new solutions, I would now have asked the Minister: how is this strategy being put forward in practice?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u290	Mr President! The challenging situation in the municipalities has talked us through much of the way in this Chamber, and now, in particular, thanks have been given to this huge package of support from the municipalities that has now been dealt with in this budget debate, and this is especially in order to overcome this corona crisis. Thanks also come directly from municipalities for which the support measures will provide relief in planning the future and organising the services of residents. However, municipalities cannot be over-represented in the relief provided by the state aid measures that have now been granted. The challenging years are on the way and many needs for renewal in municipal activities. We need to think — not just think, but, above all, implement. At the same time, the municipal level is rapidly differentiating from the combined effect of many factors. The population is ageing, the birth rate is falling, and the people are moving to cities. Minister, what are the ways in which we respond to this differentiation, so that everyone can be confident that they will receive the services they need on an equal footing, whether they live in Helsinki or Kokemäki?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u291	Mr President! As has already been said here, the situation in the municipalities has been very difficult in part before the corona. It is very important that the government has now secured the finances of municipalities during the interest period and is also prepared to support municipalities in the discharge of the care and service debt arising from the interest rate. Mr Talvitie raised an important point in my view. At a time when the reduction in early childhood education contributions is to be offset by a permanent increase in corporate tax revenues by 2 percentage points, this treats certain municipalities with a high number of children but a low rate of corporate tax. That is what I would like to see clarified and I hope that the Minister will be able to take this into account. Minister, you said that next year various construction projects will be launched as revitalising measures. I would like to ask whether it is possible to take into account, for example, schools that suffer from moisture damage, these mould schools. Can you do these?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u292	Mr President! There are over 300 municipalities in Finland and they are very different sizes and their problems are very different. Regional Finland's challenges are traditional and easy to understand: jobs disappear, people leave, services run out. Here, of course, the government can look in the mirror. If, for example, industrial competitiveness is undermined by taxation or an over-ambitious climate policy, it will hit the region of Finland. Mr Purra has already referred to the situation in the metropolitan area. The population is growing here solely because of immigration. Unfortunately, this so-called migration gain is such that it weakens the public finances of the region and does not strengthen it, not to mention all the other problems associated with it. As has been said here, the major challenges facing municipalities are not due to the interest rate, even though they have all been exacerbated by the interest rate, and we would like solutions to these structural challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u293	Mr President! Indeed, the municipal court has prepared next year's budget in a rather uncertain mood, as we all know in this Chamber, which we are. However, this municipal package of government was a positive surprise to the municipal court, and for that, I would like to thank Minister Paatero at this stage. Among other things, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities headlined its own press release ‘From budget to hand-outs’. In particular, this new EUR 4 billion interest subsidy package aimed at local government finances was important. It is an important hand-out for the municipalities that are fighting in this fight against corona infection. At the same time, in the midst of this crisis, the role of municipalities, public services has only grown, and it is important that the government also wants to ensure this. I'd like to ask you about municipal mergers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u294	Mr President! Mr Paatero, thank you very much for taking the municipalities' attention now, but of course I did wonder a little bit that now that this social reform has come and the municipalities have very little money left, and even though there has now been this kind of temporary support, then there is quite a lot going on. In other words, it is certainly not easy to be a minister, to remain in history as a minister who dwindles the municipalities in this way. But how about the hospital district support package? Now that it is only momentary, how have you thought about how it will be distributed and when will it become the final decisions? And then also this payment of the maintenance debt: at what point does it come in particular? Then I would have paid attention to those digital services that your ministry has done well over the years. When not everyone is able to use them, I would recommend such a systematic training program for persons.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u295	Mr President! Local government finances have been in deep crisis for a long time and, of course, the government has now responded to certain costs arising from the interest rate. Some time ago I asked about these municipal contributions, this prolonged unemployment and the so-called fines. Yesterday we had a meeting of the municipal council in Hyvinkää and thought about the future, and the CFO said that for the next few years there will be compensation for the additional costs of the interest rate, but the future is really unclear and open, and the social and long-standing difficult situation in the municipalities will bring their own problems. There was also a discussion about this kind of municipal tax pressure calculator, and we Hyvinkää thought it was a 2 per cent class. This is seriously affecting people’s purchasing power. I ask: what long-term measures are planned in the Ministry for the permanent plight of municipalities, and whether these fines are
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u296	Mr President! It is actually easy to continue with this raising of the fine policy. Now that we are on the employment side going strongly to the local government side, surely this whole must be considered as part of these financial solutions for the future, because it is no longer necessarily working in the same way as it was originally thought to. It may even lead, as it were, from a ditch to an ally, to improperly directing people to wrong services. But I actually asked for the floor, of course, to thank the Minister for the fact that the municipalities have come so strongly against them. It may have been more than many expected, but it became more necessary than any of us could imagine in advance. But it is not just a question of how we can cope with interest rate conditions and how we can cope with the fall in the interest rate in the municipalities, but of how we can cope with the future, and here it is important that Parliament is becoming a law that continues to emerge from the fact that voluntary municipal mergers can be made and encouraged financially. I'd like the Minister to think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u297	Let us take Mr Kempp and then Minister Paatero, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u298	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the government, which, during the corona period, has secured the services people need by supporting municipalities with an historic municipal package. Local government finances and the financial support of municipalities are about basic education, valuable ageing, family services, mental health support and, for example, the ability of family carers to cope, very important things for Finns. This has been a political choice of values, thank you for that. How long will we ensure the financial carrying capacity of municipalities, and is the government prepared to assess, for example, the statutory tasks of municipalities at some point? Korona has also brought good things. People’s interest in multi-spatialism has grown, and the majority of Finns today are multi-spatial in one way or another. According to a report from the Scientific Panel, 60 per cent of Finns were able to work remotely at the time of the corona. I believe that at least the right to vote and to stand as a candidate should be included in the rights of dual municipalism. We've been over this before, haven't we?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u299	And Minister Paatero, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u300	President! From this point of view, more people asked how the economic situation of the municipalities' future will be safeguarded and, of course, it must be in relation to those tasks. At this point, we have already started the so-called future work of municipalities within the Ministry, which is a continuation of the work that was published last February, i.e. taking into account all aspects of the vitality of the municipalities. This will have to go through the funding base of the municipalities so that the reform of the central government, to which many of you paid attention, will have to be reviewed again, and this will also, of course, come with the wars, so that the future financial contributions of the municipalities will remain adequate. But, on the other hand, when this Finnish and Nordic model has largely been that municipalities have produced their services through their own tax revenues, we also consider that share, not only of the state but also of how tax revenues will then be largely the economic potential of the municipalities to provide those services. So this whole thing is coming. There are many other elements and things that were referred to here, for example, in the changes in municipal structures, which will be one element, and I believe and see that this is probably where the social welfare reform is going to start. I am glad that we can also support these voluntary associations of municipalities, not just those of which there is a crisis community in one or another, but also in the future. At the same time, consideration will be given to what other joint activities of municipalities can then be taken forward. Today, there is often the possibility of making joint companies or setting up a joint municipal group or operating on host models, but is there any other possibility here, and we will also consider it there. Or is it the future that not all municipalities have similar tasks, but that others, even by law, would perform them for others? Some of us here believe that municipalities should provide less of these services and others believe that they should do more. This is probably also a political view of how much self-government there is in the municipality and how much the municipality is the unit responsible for the basic services of these people in this Finnish model. The will of this government is strongly that the municipality is the unit, and that is why we do not believe that the municipality has the possibility of reducing tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u303	It'll come, but in the meantime, let's take a few more questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u304	Mr President! The government acts very wisely when the municipalities are supported. This EUR 4 billion package, which targets the immediate costs of the corona virus situation, the dismantling of the care service debt and the support of the municipal economy, is really needed. We need to prevent the municipality from getting caught up in a cycle of layoffs and layoffs. This causes personal tragedies, but also social tragedies, and it will have the same effect if the services die. I myself come from the second largest city in Finland, and especially growing cities are now concerned about the sustainability of their own economy and how, for example, the financing solution of the social welfare package announced today will affect it. I am pleased to note today at the briefing that you told us that urban funding will be reformed to take account of the specific characteristics of the regions and the specific challenges they face. I would like to hear more about this timetable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u305	Mr President! It is important that we help municipalities beyond the corona crisis, but the interest rate has not changed the fact that only in a sustainable way can municipalities secure their activities in such a way that there is work and entrepreneurship, and that is why the postponement of government employment measures is a very heavy blow to municipalities and welfare society services. It is also a problem for the government to introduce different obligations, which are then not fully compensated. For example, the extension of compulsory education is 40 per cent more expensive according to Helsinki's calculations and will lead to cuts in education. But a special blow then finally is this social welfare reform that robs Helsinki's money and Espoo's money, for example. I therefore ask you now whether you, Minister, are concerned that the independence of the municipalities will go away, that investment capacity will be lost. What happens when an agricultural engine collapses when the money is taken from it? Are you worried about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u306	Mr President! There are up to 250,000 intermunicipal migrations in Finland every year. This migration is mainly directed towards a few growth centres. When we talk about the future of municipalities, it is good to accept this change. Growing municipalities and shrinking municipalities often have quite different needs and concerns. Where growing municipalities demand the ability to invest in new services and service buildings, the challenge for shrinking municipalities is, on the other hand, the weakening of services. All Finns should still be guaranteed a bright future. It is very important to make it possible for cities to grow, but also to help them shrink with dignity. I would ask, Minister, how municipalities are seen in this way as different units, how they can be individually managed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u307	Mr President! With regard to Senate properties, quite a number of times here in the Chamber have been discussed in a good and bad spirit, that whenever the Senate does what it does. Senate real estate manages these public activities quite extensively in the Finnish country, and there is one question that Mrs Semi has already raised. Quite a few regional cities, Senate properties dominate key areas, including the area of the station area, such as ours in Ylivieska. And this cooperation with Senate properties and the administration of these regions has caused quite a lot of problems in terms of zoning. In this connection, how would you help Senate properties to cooperate with municipalities in planning in these sub-urban areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u308	Mr President! The original question had already been answered. But first of all, I would like to say that we are living in historical times. With the Sote reform, the municipal court will be completely different. The tasks and funding of municipalities will become quite different. And this time with the interest rate has also brought new challenges for municipalities, which has led to the fact that local authorities really live well, can you say, insecure and historical times? I would also, of course, like to thank Minister Paatero for his very good work in the municipal field and also in the hospital districts. It has been a pleasure to hear feedback from the municipalities on how you have done your job well. However, I would now like to ask whether you have assessed the municipality field of the future and the tasks of the municipalities. How will this future municipal field possibly change, and whether we will have more in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u309	Mr President! There is no doubt that the municipalities thank the emergency aid in the middle of the corona. This will be necessary, but the fact is that these long-term structural problems will not be saved by such emergency aid, and of course we are all aware here that it will be done with debt money, that is, the state will be in debt on behalf of the municipalities. The problem lies there in the structures, i.e. that the tasks and funding of municipalities are not balanced. In addition, Finland is undergoing a major demographic change when babies are born few and Finland is ageing, and development, urbanisation and other phenomena are not evenly distributed throughout the country, but municipalities are in a very different situation. Even during this government, municipalities are being accused of new tasks without full funding, which will make the situation even more difficult for municipalities, as well as this social welfare reform, which creates the impression that the government is not interested in municipalities or the voice of municipalities is not heard. In fact, the situation in the municipalities is quite dramatic with the reform of social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u310	Mr President! During the time of the interest rate, care debts have been accumulated, both humanly and economically costly. One third of the withdrawals of medical appointments came from patients themselves and two thirds from treatment providers. For example, dental care missed nearly a million visits during the corona spring. The dismantling of accumulated queues takes a long time, even though resources are secured for the management of the corona and for the dismantling of queues — thanks for that. Local government finances will be strengthened by a total of EUR 1.45 billion. This, too, will come in dire need. My great concern is the vitality of the growing cities. The population is increasing, investment and service needs are increasing, but tax revenues are not increasing. This must be taken into account in all the decisions we make. I share Mr Ikonen's concern about the tax cutter for social welfare funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u311	Mr President! The locals are in a really tight situation. I don't think any municipality will survive the next few years with their dry feet. From the point of view of the finances of municipalities, employment is the factor that raises or drops the finances of municipalities. Municipalities are dependent on state transfers and tax revenues. Interest income facilitates acute distress, but in the long term we need big structural changes. We've been waiting for a social welfare reform in the municipalities. It is thought that it could bring relief to the municipalities when a really large expense comes out. But is this hope on a solid basis? You told us that the Ministry will consider how the municipalities will be doing in the future, but what is your view that the municipalities themselves have already begun to think about how to deal with the obligations left over by the municipalities after the social welfare reform has been carried out?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u312	Mr President! The finances of the municipalities are indeed in a challenging situation, and this rescue package, which the government is now about to deliver, is obviously necessary, but it does not solve the problem of the permanent situation that we have now, and it has only deepened further as a result of the corona crisis. For example, in my municipality of residence in Vantaa alone this year, only the falling tax revenues of the airport area amount to 15 million. Of course, it will be helpful for next year, but the fact that we are able to catch up with this challenge of unemployment and lay-offs and even the challenge of bankruptcy requires a great deal of action. At least it does not require us to have more tasks without full funding. It requires employment measures. In addition, the situation of the growing municipalities will be significantly hampered by the use of social welfare. In fact, more than 1% of tax revenue is being exported from municipalities now than in the previous proposal. And what about investment in growing cities? Many growing cities would like to invest in rail transport, for example, but it will be
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u313	Mr President! A critical question has been raised today from the point of view of the opposition: why is the government not defending the municipalities? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u318	Mr President! I will return to this compensation for early childhood education payments with this increase in corporate tax revenues. This means that we have cities that receive almost EUR 500 per child aged 0 to 6 to compensate for the early childhood education fee, for example the capital region. Then we have cities that receive about EUR 100 to 250 per child from 0 to 6 years of age for this same compensation. I ask the Minister again: why did the government decide to compensate for this reduction in early childhood education fees with this 2 percentage points increase in corporation tax, knowing that time is very different and that it treats different municipalities and cities very differently and that the number of children is very different in municipalities and cities? This is certainly not fair,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u319	Mr President! I have noticed that every time the government parties are a little lost with regard to what needs to be answered to the opposition's questions, there comes an attack that we have criticised your interest rate measures. No, we're not. We have not criticised your corona packages in the municipalities. We are talking here mainly about these structural problems, this whole which has existed before the corona crisis. We have asked for answers to these questions. It must be understood that, at the same time, you are increasing the role of the municipalities when we have such an economic situation and, despite this, there is no possibility of extending compulsory education and other projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u320	Mr President! The finances of municipalities have been tested over recent years, and the effects of the interest rate have contributed to a significant deterioration in the situation of municipalities, including through reduced tax revenues. The government has reacted quickly to this, defending the municipalities in every amending budget. Local government finances will be strongly supported in 21 C.E. by a very large group. The State will also fully compensate municipalities and medical districts for the necessary testing and other costs related to the interest rate. This draft budget is subject to major reforms in the municipal economy, such as the extension of compulsory education and the binding minimum size of care staff. These permanent measures, which strengthen care and education, and reduce family spending, are 100% compensated by state-owned municipalities to the extent that they increase local government spending. Mr President! I would like to thank Minister Paatero for having responded to the distress of the municipalities and for listening to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u321	Mr President! Korona has treated municipalities and cities in very different ways. For example, public transport debt has increased, especially in the capital region, and HSL is in serious difficulties as a result. It is good to mobilise investment now, because just as much as the state is trying to revive it now, the municipalities must have sufficient resources to be able to mobilise such projects that need to be put into motion anyway. For example, it may be about building public transport in parks. The Finnish economy is highly dependent on how we manage in Uusimaa. A large share of GDP is made up here, and now the service-intensive business structure of the SME region in particular has suffered the consequences of the interest rate and the loss of tax revenue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u322	Mr President! This government is truly on the side of man, especially the weaker one. You can see that in these decisions, which have built this municipal package, which has received a great deal of praise. However, municipalities provide basic services that are distributed equally to all, and in this respect it is important. Mr President! I listened to this debate about my room and came here because I was amazed at what the representatives have already said — I think Kivisaari has said it — that even in this situation, where there is a place of thanks, the opposition is unable to thank this government. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u323	It's quite over, and now it's time to thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u324	Mr President! I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In his previous speech, Mr Purra summed up the core of our criticism, namely the long-term structural problems. No one disputes these corona subsidies. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u325	Mr President! I have long been a member of the Municipal and Health Section of the Finance Committee and also chaired it. The unanimous message has always been across government—position limits, that employment measures, the fact that municipalities have work and entrepreneurship, is the only way to secure the vitality of municipalities and also our welfare society services. That is why it is very serious that the government continues to postpone employment measures. You put them off before the corona, and now it's going on. We have given thanks for helping the municipalities with the aid package over this period of interest. No one here has criticized it. But I would now like to ask, as the situation in the municipalities needs to be taken a little further than its nose, how this social welfare solution treats the municipalities. Could the Minister of Local Government tell us when you have had a press conference today, what will happen to Helsinki, for example, when it appears that municipal taxes are being increasingly exported? When other ministers say that there were many improvements, and here Mr Guzenina said,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u326	Mr President! People's interest in diversity has grown. In the past, it was just a matter of studying or going to work, but during the time of the corona there has been an increase in the need for space and the desire to be comfortable, and cities have been wandered into the country for different reasons. Unfortunately, tax banks have not yet followed the movers, because our administration does not recognise this phenomenon. Pluralism is not just local shopping, for children of divorced families, for example, are even natives. For example, the division of taxation between two municipalities should be clarified, the constitutional challenges should be resolved, and the challenges of teaching shift children should be solved, just as stated in the Government Programme. E-municipality is also possible by means of current legislation. Exploiting digitalisation creates opportunities for increasing participation and influence in our municipal level. How the Ministry encourages development
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u327	Mr President! The opposition criticises the fact that the government has not wanted to understand the debate on the need for long-term structural changes in municipalities. At the same time, Halla-aho, for example, blames the government for the dismantling of the export industry that struck Region-Finland. Let us remember a little about what has happened in the provinces recently, or in recent years: the departure of educational places from higher education institutions and the centralisation of secondary education, the decisions of the Defence Forces, transfers of district courts to centres, centralisation of tax offices, local register offices and, for example, last year's emergency services have all been the decisions of previous governments that have been explicitly influenced by the provinces. [Jussi Halla-aho’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u328	Mr President! Unfortunately, Mr Kiljunen left here, but I would like to reiterate that it is very good that the government is now supporting the municipalities. Thank you for that. However, as I said in my previous speech, the long-term problems have not been eliminated. And secondly, this aid package does not solve most of the problems in municipalities today. Unfortunately, various savings programmes are now being made in municipalities all over Finland, and this is a necessity. Unfortunately, municipal decision-makers often quickly face the situation that we have so much to do, we have so much to do that it is difficult to find, in the short term, measures that would, for example, improve the productivity of the operation, and in practice either save, increase charges, increase taxes or sell assets — that is what the alternatives are in practice. Well, when you ask the locals, no one would want to do these things. What do you think, Minister Paatero, should be done to ensure that the problems of local government finances are met?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u329	Mr President! Representative Sarkomaa just made a world record of some kind of passing by. When I asked Minister Paatero, I said that at the information conference he promised to renew funding for growing cities to take account of the specific characteristics and challenges of these regions, and I asked about the timetable for this reform work, which I was delighted about. But I share the concerns expressed in this Chamber about the financial situation in the large cities, and that is precisely why the work initiated by Minister Paatero will take account of how state aids will be targeted in the future and how this overall funding will be put on a sustainable footing. Since this is the case, the major growth centres, the capital region, are the locomotive of Finland as a whole, and how big cities can be, how to secure important services,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u330	Mr President! It is, in fact, very typical in politics to be able to deal with these falling issues and, for example, to solve this problem by means of emergency aid packages or similar solutions for next year. But there is a widespread problem in the policy of this government that long-term problems are not addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u331	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u333	And now Minister Paatero will answer these questions. — 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u334	Mr President! Let's start with this separate municipal court. Now this government has stated that we cannot have the same range of means for all sizes and types of municipalities throughout Finland. That is why we are currently in the process of considering the issues of the metropolitan area separately, and we are making an urban strategy in which the strategy has been drawn up. In the next month, we will decide on the measures to be taken by the various ministries, which will then be taken forward next year. In addition to this, we have a regional urban programme within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and also a rural housing programme through the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. So we have recognized that we have different regions, different municipalities in this Finland and different measures are needed for them. I think this is a big question. Then to this social reform: I do not know what is more structural reform than social reform. It is the largest, and it has been tried and done now, as it has been in the third production period, and hopefully this time it will move forward. Indeed, the aim is not very easy for everyone, as has been seen particularly in this funding. At this point, if large cities have been taken into account, it has also been attempted to take into account smaller municipalities and regions across Finland. For large cities and growing regions, the solution is to have a maximum of EUR 60 per capita less than EUR 100 in the previous period. So we improved the situation. Secondly, we have now created a new criterion for the central government shares of municipalities, the criterion of population growth. In other words, the regions in which the population is growing will receive special support under this criterion. In addition to this, we will, of course, look at this point when we begin to consider how much reform can be made on the part of the central government and on the side of tax revenue. These too will be taken into consideration there. But when I didn't make it to the Senate just now, it's a step in the right direction: there's been a plan for the Senate. Of course, the Senate is linked to this establishment plan and strategy that is being taken forward. The challenge has been, as the representatives have said, that, in many cases, even if the Senate had a mandate, we have not had that rent money since the actual user of the premises there. And now this balance is being sought through ongoing negotiations, and this has been started, for example, with police officers in good time, so that the possibility of adjusting inside the actual Ministry of the Interior has been added to that increase in the rent level, because you know that every time you improve the premises or build new ones, it is assumed that their rent level will be slightly higher than in the past. But we've been prepared for this. It was important because of this resuscitation and, on the other hand, because of our indoor air problems, to have more authority to do so, so that the Senate could do this. And this new model, which was also referred to in relation to the regions of the station, is being developed all the time, because this is in fact only a few years old, and all these negotiations are, as I recall, more than a dozen around Finland, how the planning of these areas of the station previously owned by VR will then be jointly negotiated with the municipalities, and there is often a dispute over the value of what it will then be redeemed. But they're taking this forward. Perhaps even to this total number of municipalities: we have wanted this government to start with the fact that this year's normal budget, the budget presented last autumn, came together — last autumn's amending budget and this year's budget — with an increase of about EUR 1 billion, because the previous period had frozen indices, cut the local government's finances — cut the local government's finances — and we wanted to return that money and increase the municipalities so that they would not have to do it. In addition to that, of course, we need a wide range of measures in the municipalities where the range of activities there is real estate sales, tax increases, improved efficiency of various activities, cooperation with municipalities, possible mergers with municipalities, so that these structures can be changed at the municipal level. I believe and hope that as this social welfare reform moves forward, there will be more resources and opportunities on the municipal level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u335	Thank you, Minister Paatero. — Let us now move on to the main categories of Minister Blomqvist. First, a five-minute presentation, and then we're going to have a debatt. At the latest at 21 o'clock, we shall proceed to the list of speakers. — — — — Minister Blomqvist, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u336	Mr President, ärade talman! The Government Programme contains a large number of gender equality objectives, which are specified in the Government’s Gender Equality Programme, among other things. The gender equality programme was published in June this year and its implementation has begun. All ministries are involved in the implementation, and most of the measures are carried out with basic funding from ministries. Additional funding will be allocated to gender equality and equal pay programmes of EUR 0.5 million per year. Work on wage transparency has started and negotiations with the social partners on the equal pay programme continue. From the point of view of equality, I would also like to mention specifically that funding for sheltered homes is being increased and that measures to combat sexual violence are being targeted in a number of ways. In the budget, these are actually within the administrative sectors of the Minister for Basic Services and the Minister for Justice. There are other important reforms and projects for equality in almost all administrative sectors. For example, the reform of social security, the preparation of a strategy for children, development cooperation, the overall reform of sexual crime law, the identification and assistance of victims of trafficking in human beings, the extension of compulsory education and so on. These are also reflected in the item of the ministry responsible for the budget. In addition, a few words on gender budgeting and its development. It is therefore up to everyone, not just me, the Minister for Gender Equality, to take care of gender equality, and the summaries of gender equality in the main categories - and I think it is quite good - to give some idea of the measures taken by the various administrative sectors that can have an impact on gender equality. And although these summaries still do not guarantee the actual gender impact assessment throughout the budget, they have clearly improved by several ministries. The Ministry of Finance, which directs the budget process, plays an important role in the development work. However, we must continue to develop gender-conscious budgeting. The aim is to have a transparent, fair and more effective budget in which the gender impact is assessed as part of the budget process. The corona epidemic has highlighted the gender dimension of society in a concrete way: both the mitigation of the spread of corona and the recovery measures target genders in different ways, inter alia due to gender segregation in working life. More information is needed on the importance of gender in order to strengthen the effectiveness of measures and prevent discrimination. On Nordic cooperation, Mr President, a few words too. The effects of the interest-bearing epidemic will also be taken into account in this cooperation, when Finland will be the presidency of Nordic cooperation next year. As President, Finland promotes the Nordic vision that the Nordic Region will become the most sustainable and integrated region in the world by 2030. Nordic co-operation ensures that we are leading the way and that we learn from each other, for example, about combating climate change, digitalisation and the development of well-being. The Nordic Council of Ministers cooperates in 12 sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u337	Mr President! The Government commits itself to promoting gender equality, including in the budgetary process and in all its key reforms. The Government’s gender equality programme makes these objectives concrete. We need more information on the importance of genders so that we can strengthen the effectiveness of measures and prevent discrimination, and here I also hope that the Minister of Responsibility will have a courageous and strongly forward-looking approach. EUR 0.5 million per year has been allocated to equality and equal pay programmes. As far as equal pay measures are concerned, expectations of tripartite negotiations, at least on my part, are ambitious. I hope we will also hear about this in the near future. Mr President! As far as this shelter is concerned, the funding of state funding for sheltered homes is increasing, but, Minister, it is still inadequate and needs to be continued in both the government and Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u338	Mr President! I believe that Finland will survive this crisis too, but that requires us to mobilise all our resources. There is a need for mothers and fathers in working life, fathers and mothers in parenting, that is, women and men are equally needed. We need a reform of family leave that promotes equality in working life, equality in families and also more employment. So I ask the Minister: where is the reform of family leave? The work in the working groups has apparently been at a standstill for almost six months. Can you tell us now when we will have a family leave reform for the consultation and when it will come to Parliament? It is very important that this Parliament can provide for an equal reform of family leave. The concern is that the government has allocated only EUR 25 million to this, with costs approaching as much as EUR 100 million — this is what the social partners have said. Do you have a way of where that money comes from, or will that important equality reform not be done for lack of money? Could the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u339	Mr President! It was recently a national girls' day. The day is a reminder of the discrimination that girls face all over the world because of their age and gender. On the other hand, it is a holiday that brings out the strength and potential of girls. Today's theme was cyber-harassment. I'm worried about the direction of the culture of conversation. According to the Alchio study, as many as 73% of young people do not feel involved in social activity, for they do not want to be criticized by others. Many people also feel that network harassment should in some way be punished more than it is today. The direction of confrontation shown by the Parliament and the media's discussion culture will certainly not improve the situation. What could the government do about this? Thank you for the extra money to fund shelters. 23.5 million are proposed for the operation of shelters with a level increase of 1 million. There really is a need for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u340	Chairman of the committee, Mr Kontula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u341	Mr President! It is essential that shelters have been increased and increased as required by the Istanbul Agreement. In addition to quantity, however, it is also important for the quality that places are accessible to a wide range of people who need protection, including people with disabilities, men, undocumented people and so on. Now I'm raising a group of intoxicated women who have been turned from the doors of shelters. In such a situation, since there are no first shelters for women in many areas, the only alternative is to return to an apartment that has recently been abused. Minister, when will Finland have more to offer them than a new beating or staying out in the cold?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u342	Mr President! Equality is not ready, and that is why I would like to thank the government for its will right now for actually defending everyone's rights and efforts to increase equality in our society. The gender equality programme recently published by the Government addresses the most important and serious gender issues, such as intimate and honorable violence, trafficking in human beings, the position of disabled people, child and forced marriages, and exclusion of boys and men, for example. The current corona epidemic has also caused an exceptional situation in Finland, and the government has fortunately maintained that the promotion of equality work will continue through the crisis. No one should have to face violence in their lives, but unfortunately we know that violence against women, for example, is one of the biggest human rights problems in Finland. It is also a central theme of gender equality policy. The Government has stated that its aim is to reduce violence against women and close-to-people violence. I would like to ask the Minister of State: could you still open up the concrete ways in which this problem is being tackled?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u343	Mr President! After all, there are currently two problems in the law in Finland that clearly discriminate against the other sex. After all, all the law must be gender-neutral, and now that we have our own Minister for Gender Equality in Finland, a lot of money is being spent on salaries and so on, I would ask you how we have managed to promote these two problems. One of them is compulsory military service, in other words, there is unambiguous discrimination against men at the level of the law. We still do not have a model of civil service or anything like that in which military service applies to both sexes. Another clear issue of equality in law is the mutilation of children. Fortunately, at the moment, girls must not be mutilated, even though it is still happening and there is development, but boys can be mutilated for ritual religious reasons according to the Supreme Court’s policy. I would like to ask: what kind of legal projects are you going to be promoting or putting pressure on? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u344	Irade the Talman! Till skillnad från föregående talare anser jag att lagstiftningen ska vara könskänslig, gender-sensitive, and not sexual neutrality. In my opinion, it may not be the way to achieve equality. It is precisely through sexual-sensitivity legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u345	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here on the situation of shelters. Unfortunately, that paint is going to run away from us, even though there are bets on it, and it is good that it has been made. Minister, you have one — I might say, while I have been in Parliament — of the best government programmes for your protection in the promotion of these matters, and these are the things that were done before the corona, but I would like to see an analysis being made of how corona treats men and women alongside these important objectives. If we look at the business subsidies that were decided quickly — and I understand very well that at that stage there was no time for in-depth gender impact assessments — then I dare say that they treated male and female entrepreneurs quite differently because men and women operate in different business sectors and often in companies of different sizes. But now that we are making cost support, which should look a little more forward, I hope that you will be careful here to have the sexual sensitivity that Mr Biaudet called for and to see what the differences in men's and women's activities are.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u346	Mr President! I've been here before. Kemp brought up girls' day and girls to face online harassment. According to studies, as many as three out of four women, or three quarters of them, experience online harassment and cyber violence. It's a wild number. Similarly, another thing where we have no praise in Finland is domestic violence, and women in particular face it. That is why I am pleased to hear that we are investing in these shelters and first homes and that funding is being increased, but unfortunately, as many other representatives have said here, the goal is running away because we have not yet been able to tackle this real problem. This is not, of course, a matter for your administrative sector alone, but what do you do in cooperation with the other ministers in order to better address these two problems, particularly those faced by women, through cooperation between the administrative sectors?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u347	Mr President! A significant number of Finnish medical students apply specifically for their degree in Sweden, and many of them are fortunate enough to have plans to return. Many of them would be happy to carry out their practice of legalizing a doctor again in their own country. The only problem is that doctors who practice their medical degree in Finland, Valvira, are not legal, because from Valvira’s point of view they should be legalized in Sweden when they have studied there — whereas in Sweden Socialstyrelsen, respectively, considers that the legal authority should be Finnish Valvira. In other words, they will miss the drop, and the practice in Finland will not succeed. A minor change in the law could remedy this. Are you, Minister, prepared to promote this issue so that we can get Finnish doctors to learn better in Finland and thus better bilingual doctors to safeguard linguistic rights in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u348	Mr President! According to Statistics Finland's Time Use Survey, women do more housework than men in more than one hour a day. This leads us to think about what we could do to free women more time from housework, for example, for work and employment, because women also work an hour less a day than men, or something else that everyone wants to do. Therefore, I would ask that when the government's reduction in the household allowance is leading the development of equality in Finland in the wrong direction, does the Minister for Gender Equality see this as a problem and, for example, would it be possible to promote equality in Finland? The second question relates to the reform of family leave. There is no such thing, and then the model that has been presented does not actually increase equality and the employment of women. Are you prepared to reconsider it and genuinely promote equality and women's employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u349	Mr President! The Government is in the process of implementing a comprehensive reform of sexual offences legislation. Sexual crimes against children are a particularly repugnant, serious and reprehensible phenomenon. As it turns out, it is also easy to hide, and it is important that attention is now paid to prevention and legislation. Network harassment, both for girls and boys, must also be tackled. Minister, you mentioned the government's gender equality programme. In Finland, we can be proud that we girls have the same opportunities as boys to move forward and build their lives. That's the way it's supposed to be. In recent years, studies have shown that boys and young men are at particular risk of exclusion. Men’s life expectancy is also lower than women’s, and a significant proportion of those who died in working age are men. The exclusion of young men has increased. This should not be the case. I would like to ask the Minister: how does the government intend to improve the performance of boys in, for example, the school world and working life?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u350	Irade the Talman! Det krävs constant arbete för att förbättra jämställdheten mellan olika grupper i vårt samhälle. Ett verktyg i det arbetet är jämställdhetsredogörelsen. År 2010 bestamde riksdage att nasta redogörelse ska ges före utgången av 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u351	Mr President! Nordic cooperation is very important for Finland. We're part of the North. The budget is EUR 4 per Finn. In due course, the autumn session of the Parliament has been created because the Nordic Council and its committees will meet at that time. Be grateful for this week. This year, we're going to meet at a distance. Our vision is that by 2030 the Nordic Region will be the most integrated region in the world. This integration has been broken during the corona. I ask the Minister: how can we jointly learn from the epidemic so that, in the next crisis, we can act as a united Nordic country? I am also concerned about the appropriations for education and culture which are being cut on the grounds that they are not part of the priorities chosen, namely the green North, the competitive North and the socially sustainable North. I ask the Minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u352	Mr President! I think I have the courage to say in this Chamber at this stage that we are actually carrying out a reform of family leave to strengthen the well-being of families and also equality during this parliamentary term. This purpose has gone nowhere, quite the contrary, and the government is working decisively on this issue. Of course, it is important to remember that the preparation of this reform is the responsibility of Minister Pekonen, but when it is a very important project from the point of view of equality, it is also important to highlight it in this debate in the Chamber. Mr President! Pregnancy discrimination will also be prevented through legislation. I would like to point this out in this debate because it seems very unfortunate that in Finland in 2020 we need separate legislation to ensure that pregnancy and the use of family leave do not affect the continuation of a fixed-term employment relationship. I am sure that this is also a subject of concern.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u353	Mr President! It is good to see that we really do have a lot of issues in our hands that are not behind the opposition-government division. The partial reform of the Non-Discrimination Act is, for good reason, also under way, and the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman has rightly argued that, among other things, the non-discrimination at work should be extended. On the basis of feedback, I have come across work discrimination in the case of people with disabilities, those over 55 years of age and those returning from family leave. Persons with disabilities have an equal right to work. However, according to the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman's report, they experience discrimination in recruitment and few report it to the Authority. With the right support, many would also be able to find employment directly in the open labour market. In the case of people over 55, there is also serious discrimination. Should it not be the person at the end of his career who should have the skills to pass on and, by doing so, that he should be more easily employed at the end of his career?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u354	Mr President! I will take this opportunity to continue with the effects of corona and sexual sensitivity. There is a great risk that women's responsibility for care will increase with this, because in fact, if we think about the situations when families had to choose who would stay home and do the care that we could not do at the closure stage, then it was often the case that it was a woman, because women are more often in part-time jobs, are less paid and so on. And at the same time, we know that the risk of intimate violence has also increased. These are two things that you would like the Minister to look at with a magnifying glass when considering this corona time. It is not just about the measures that are being taken; it is about what happens after we get rid of this interest rate. Are we going to continue, as it were, the slightly backward steps that might come in this situation from the point of view of equality, or are we going to get into a normal career and get ahead of it? In this respect, what is happening on the labour market is particularly important,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u355	Mr President! I will indeed return to this reform of family leave, although I know that it is the responsibility of a different minister, but this is certainly a matter for the Minister for Gender Equality. After all, the key objective of the reform of family leave should be to ensure a more even distribution of care responsibilities in the future. It would open women to work, and in the long term it would have a positive impact on women's salaries, pensions and career development, in other words, if a reform of family leave is carried out, which genuinely incorporates the elements of equality. There are many good points of view in the draft envisaged by the government, such as the extension of fathers' freedom and quotas, but the real structural reform that would make this a genuinely equal responsibility for care is lacking, and it is because of this lock that home care support must not even be touched within its structure. I would like to ask the Minister's position on this matter: will the government bring such a flawed proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u356	Mr President! If I have understood, equality is often measured by how much women and men each work outside the home. The centre thinks that real equality is that families, fathers and mothers are allowed to decide for themselves who is on child care leave and who is not, and the centre's threshold when we go to the government was that there is no reduction in home care support and this government will not do so. Family leave reform should not be carried out solely from the point of view of working life or money.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u359	Ärade Herr Talman! Det auråret har variety ett mycket speciellt år för det nordiska samarbetet i practiceken. Coronaviruses har gjort att gränsen stängts i Norden för första gången på valddigt länge. Det aur har skapat stora praktiska problemm för fabillioner med familijemedlemmar och släkt på oliika siir om gränsen. Där jag är född och uppväxt kan man se till Sverige över Ålands hav då det är klart väder. Frejan till Sverige går tre gånger per dag. Om någon skulle ha sagt att vi skulle få gränskontroller för något år sedan hade jag haft svårt att tro det. Coronakrisens hantering är ingen och har inte variety någon landskamp, men ändå har det änts som så ibland. Det nordiska samarbetet är så starkt att det kommer att överleva det rauta, men det har blivet skråmor i lacken som vi kommerer att behöva arbeta activt med för att återbygga förtroendet, i synnerhet till vårt grannland Sverige, vår kanske framsta samarbetspartt. Hur har regeringen tänkt att man ska
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u360	Mr President! The gender impact assessment has been carried out for years in our budget process, and now it is quite robust there, even though we still have room for improvement, particularly in terms of research. But now that it has been learned, and now that we know that it is a useful tool not only for us representatives and those who read the budget to be able to check the effects of gender in a concise way, but also in the process of drawing up the budget itself to take account of these issues, the next question would of course be how we would be able to extend this perspective more inter-sectorally, that is to say, to understand that other social divisions than gender affect how our resources are used in the budget process. I would therefore like to ask the Minister's view on the timetable within which this would be possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u361	Now we're gonna do it the way the minister responds, three minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u362	Thank you, Mr President! There are so many good questions here, and thank you for them. I am now trying to answer these questions as best I can. When it comes to the budget and reforms and these gender assessments, it is true: this is an important, really important issue. Finally, when Mr Kontula raised the issue of intersectionalism, it is central to the Government's gender equality programme, and from there it will probably be included in the budgeting process, when it is introduced there — it is a truly useful approach. But there is still some development in budgeting for these old tools, but I am sure it will be there too, and I agree that it would be a useful addition to that budgeting process. Mr Filatov then asked what the government is doing and is going to do about the issue of corona — I will take this now because this is such a topical issue in every way. We have discussed this, that this sexual sensitivity and gender evaluation should be carried out, as well as the impact this corona epidemic has on society, as described here by the representative, but also how this money, the recovery money, which is now being spent, is being used and how it affects society. It has been discussed within the government and it is agreed that this will be done. Then a lot of people asked about the family leave reform. It is, as has been said here, on the table of Minister Pekonen. This will go forward and enter into force in 2022, according to my information, and I think this is a very important reform for equality too. And what I know is that this preparation will continue according to the Government Programme and the guidelines that have been made will probably hold. That preparatory process will continue, but you will have to ask Minister Pekos for more detailed information. Then perhaps a few words on Nordic cooperation. Mr Rydman's question is easy to answer: yes, I will do my best to promote this. Then, among other things, Mr Aittakumpu asked about the renewal of sexual law. It's not on my desk, but I know it's moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u363	Mr President! Each family is valuable, and everyone should have the right to define their own family and to pursue familyhood if they so wish. Although the diversity of families is better identified, our system of benefits and services still does not treat new families, adoptive families, single-parent families, rainbow families or, for example, plural families. So equality between the different forms of family does not yet exist. We must be able to take greater account of this diversity of families in all decision-making concerning families, so that Finland becomes a better place for all families with children. It is important that we now succeed in dismantling the barriers to family reunification and in strengthening the various opportunities for family reunification. We must also succeed in developing the reconciliation of work and family life in such a way that all these forms of family are taken into account, and I very much hope that the diversity of families will be strongly taken into account in the forthcoming reform of family leave. The Government's equality programme does raise the diversity of families, but I would now like to ask the Minister of State: how are we going to achieve greater equality between families?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u364	Mr President! Finland has many undisputed strengths as a educational country. Finnish society values education, research and culture. We have a strong reading culture and highly educated teachers, whom society appreciates and who have exceptionally wide educational freedom internationally. The whole Finnish society — and I dare say that Parliament, all of us here, is also committed to equality in education. The desire to build equal training paths for each child and young person regardless of their background is common. I would like to ask the Minister's assessment of how we could strengthen educational equality in our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u365	Mr President! First of all, this is a technical comment about our way of working. Some of us are following this conversation from our own room. We will take the floor here, and we will leave, and Mr Multala will not be reprimanded, but will pay attention to the fact that you have said in the Chamber that Mr Kiljunen has already left and I have not heard the Duudada — I have heard your comments, thank you for that. So let's probably learn these routines better. Mr President! My point relates to the Nordic cooperation presented here by the Minister, which was said to be ‘four europerpersons’ — an unusually valuable direction for cooperation with Finland, and to the need for further integration in several ways. That is, of course, partly happening within the framework of the European Union, but in general. I would like to ask about the Nordic cooperation on the dimension that has come to light in some of the discussions, whether there is any possibility of considering the Baltic States joining this Nordic Council as a whole. Then perhaps these small Nordic countries would be better integrated in this respect, and this representation would also be visible at European level. What does the Minister think of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u366	Mr President! People with mental disabilities want to work, but there are many obstacles to getting a job. In myself at the folk high school, at the previous job, one of the important colleagues was a mentally disabled person. Work training and adaptation were needed. It took time and took patience, but when the work was learned it was done tirelessly and with heart. I ask the Minister how we can promote the employment of people with mental disabilities and the improvement of attitudes in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u367	Mr President! From the point of view of current Finnish democracy and equality, gender quotas are extremely problematic. They themselves offer a pass-by lane to the other sex, and this is what you can say: it focuses on the gender rather than knowledge, and it does not value the gender that should be chosen for a particular task. We all know that all around Finland we have this problem in the municipal trust bodies, for example, that, despite the fact that the other sex has been much more involved in the elections and they would thus have gained much more confidence, so when these trust places are shared, they will be transferred to the other sex that has not gained so much confidence in democracy. And this is a travesty of democracy. In many cases, vice - councilmen, or even lower places, have had to apply as well as dogs for who could participate. Will gender quotas be dismantled in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u368	Mr President! The Minister's positive answer to the previous question was very gratifying. In fact, this Nordic cooperation in many ways has anticipated many developments and has been a pioneer, even though it is not always properly understood. In fact, just recently, last year, the Nordic Council adopted its own strategy on social security, which also contains important proposals to the Nordic Council of Ministers. In fact, there was already a position on last year's side that the Nordic countries should intensify their cooperation on the fight against global pandemics. It contains a whole series of other important proposals on how, however, limited resources in the Nordic countries as such could be used as effectively as possible for our common benefit by better coordinating our own activities. I would like to ask Minister Blomqvist: next year, when Finland is the presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u369	Mr President! Equal family leave reform is really necessary, and I would have liked to say here when Mr Aittakumpu criticised the majority for thinking about equality only from the point of view of working life, that this is not the case, at least in my opinion. But I also think it is not fair that we maintain structures which in practice lead to it — freedom of choice — that a woman chooses to be at home. Unfortunately, this is the case in most cases. Fathers use a very small share of family leave, and this leads, for example, to the very low rates of pension for women, which you yourself mentioned. It would therefore be desirable if, now that the government is embarking on this reform of the family leave, you would make it a genuine improvement not only in terms of the flexibility that is the primary desire of all families, but also in terms of women's employment, but also in terms of a reform of the family leave which would not at least now undermine employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u370	Mr President! It is very important to pay attention to the position and situation of women in working life, but this exercise of parental family leave has been studied in the knowledge that once the possibility for fathers to have family leave has been increased they have also used them more. And that is exactly what the government is trying to do now to implement this family leave reform in such a way that fathers' share of family leave is increased without shortening the time off for mothers and more flexibility for mothers and fathers to agree on how to keep their family leave. But the mother’s free leg remains as it is, and it is rightly increased for her father. And I believe and hope that fathers will be more involved in keeping family leave. It also requires an employer’s reception. I myself would have taken more than one paternity leave if there had been a chance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u371	Mr President! However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, at the moment, parental leave is entirely open to distribution, which can be used by both the mother and the father, but, as I recall, 7% of the fathers take parental leave, that is, a very small proportion. So it's mostly used by the mother. While, of course, it is great to be at home with those young children, but if you look at women’s careers, this is one of the major reasons why women remain permanently behind men in wage development after the birth of the first child into the economy, and all statistics prove this. Let us hope that this will change. It is a very good thing that you also increase the father's contribution to the reform of family leave. I think it is good, but the problem is that if we do not genuinely increase these flexibility, which would also allow families to choose to work part of the time, mothers could work part of the time, partly at home. Let us hope that this will also happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u372	Mr President! I share this concern. In my opinion, hope and faith are no longer really enough, just the mere fact, for this good reform of the family leave system to take place. After all, we all hope that it actually means that parents share responsibility for family leave evenly and in a balanced way. It is a question of equality, but it is also a question of well-being. It is also a question of men's well-being. And when the situation is that we have had the opportunity to share and yet it does not happen or it does happen really, really much less than we usually think, then perhaps I would like to ask the Minister for this role of men in this debate on equality: Is there anything the government can do besides legislation and budget? Do we have a method by which we can bring about a ‘climate change’ for our opinion and the behaviour of men,that they really get an understanding in the workplace,that they will also remain on parental leave and then want to share their freedom with their children?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u373	I will give you five more replies, then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u374	Värderade Talman! Under väldigt många år har man kämpat för att få se nordisk tv fritt i de nordiska lännderna. Det rauta inte bara därför för att det det är skojigt att ha många tv-kanler utan också därför att det görs valdigt mycket bra programm i de oika lännderna, och också mycket sådant programme som skulle förbättra förståelsen för varandra och skulle ge batttre insikt i den kultur som finns i de nordiska länderna. Men vi vet också att många programme från Finland, till exempel Strömsö, också har stänts i de andra nordiska lännderna. Det ox har variant någonting som man har jobbat för i valdigt, valdigt många år, så jag frågar minister Blomqvist: Hur ser det nu ut? Det går att streama, men det finns så mycket geoblockering. Hur ser det ut i framtide? Kommer vi att konna se de nordiska tv-kanlerna fritt i Norden i framtiden?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u375	Mr President! A few words on this so-called family leave reform. It is now being treated with great complacency, even though it is finally an infinitely small tinkering and no real reform. It is precisely the fact that the social division of labour between women and men becomes more symmetrical in order to increase women's own earnings that is regarded as progressing towards equality throughout the world. So in Sweden, for example, in our neighbouring country, the voices of social democrats, the city centre and the Greens just recently stopped home care support because it was understood to be a woman who was particularly gripped by households in those municipalities where there were many Muslim families and immigration families. Is this the idea of equality in the centre really the idea of social democracy today? When I was in the SDP, there was a great deal of effort to get rid of home care support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u376	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to my colleague, Mr Vartiainen, that the family leave reform that families are waiting for throughout the empire is certainly not a small practice for the government. Then, with regard to this administrative sector, I would also like to highlight this promotion of equal pay and increased pay transparency. These are also the subject of tripartite negotiations, and the tripartite working groups are working on them. It is important for us to remember our role in these developments, but I do wish Mr Blomqvist the debatableness of his own posture and a positive will to fight for progress in these matters. Finally, on the subject of this home, I would like to say that there will be more funding, but as the Minister, too, in such a discussion section, has the hopes to be expressed and wishes to be expressed, this funding needs to be done not only from the point of view of increasing these places of refuge, but also from the point of view of:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u377	Mr President! A mother from Finland works a lot. According to statistics from a few years ago, if you look at the total lifetime workload, the Finnish mother actually participates more in the labour market than women who do not have children. The Finnish mother participates more in working life than women — mothers or not — in most of our control countries. In addition to this, Finnish mothers make a lion's share of their work in homes and are also overrepresented in family care. Nevertheless, even in this Chamber tonight, the main concern of the kingdom seems to be whether they are working hard enough. I would like a Finnish mother to be able to breathe in peace at times and we would think more about how other people here could work than just Finnish mothers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u378	Mr President! One way in which Finnish mothers could breathe a little more, which I myself wish to do, would be for the government to cancel the cut in the household allowance and, rather, to promote such a culture of service, so that services and assistance could be provided at home, [Give Kontula interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u379	Mr. Speaker! Maybe I'll start with this safe house thing. As has been said here, investments in shelters will be increased by 22.55 million in next year's budget and then around one million more in the following year. Of course, this is not enough, but it is a good development. And what I have understood is that the message of the corona field has now been that, during this corona crisis, the threshold for these organisations is actually as low as possible, and it has perhaps been the most critical point that their funding must be secured, but also, of course, the financing of shelters. Then to this question, which was first raised by Mr Kontula about these women who use drugs: I have not been aware that they are being converted, but I know that EUR 6 million will be invested in supporting them between 21 and 22 years, that is to say, this is the problem that is known, and that is what is being invested in. The second thing I wanted to go back to is what Mr Biaudet has raised here, namely the role of fathers or perhaps men in this cooperation on equality, because this is also a matter of personal importance to me. I think that Finnish men participate far too little in this equality work and also in this debate — I am pleased to see that men are also taking part this evening, but as a general observation. Among other things, I have spoken about the fact that a round table would be held here in Parliament with the male MPs, with the groups, how this work could be better carried out here, including among men. Now this corona period has also put a few obstacles to that work, but this is an important issue and I would like to see more men involved now and not seen equality as a benefit for women — it benefits society as a whole and for all of us. As far as this family leave reform is concerned, I think it is a step in the right direction. It's a really big step forward. Even after it has come true, there will probably be enough development. And one of the key elements of the reform is that fathers will have a better chance of staying home with children, but this will also require a wide-ranging change of attitude in our society, both for the social partners and for the rest of the world. Then there was the question of these quotas: I can say that there is nothing to be prepared to give up these quotas. Unfortunately, Mr President, there are quite a few questions that have not been answered, but they have been written here and at least the message has been made clear. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u381	Then let's move on to the list of speakers. Let me remind you that we have five minutes' speaking time at the podium and three minutes' sitting, and we will be asked to speak not only on the list, but also on the list. And when we come here to talk, disposable cloths in that trash can, then disinfect your hands, talk and take a new cloth. You don't walk in a gym without a mask.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u382	Mr President! The social reform has been strongly on the agenda today and would have a very significant impact on future budgets, up to EUR 10 billion. But I'm not talking about that, I'm talking about the rest. This budget is an exceptional budget because of the corona epidemic. On Friday, in connection with the treatment of this corona epidemic, representatives Laiho and Mykkänen here expressed mistrust for Minister Kiuru. I was not there at the time, so now I would like to express my own views on this matter. First of all, I would like to say that politics and infectious diseases are a rather complex combination, because there are many fears particularly about these communicable diseases, and then we should be very careful about what kind of moods are being fomented at different stages. For example, this is not as clear a scientific point as it is suggested with regard to the use of masks. Secondly, I would like to point out here that, in general, the protection of communicable diseases and other risks always depends on the risk. It does not exist that some protection always applies in the same way and in all situations, but that risk must be taken into account. In the spring we had a strong rise in this epidemic. We were able to limit it with strong restrictive measures. Summer was a free and quiet time in many ways. In the autumn, the epidemic began to accelerate, and at that point this recommendation was made for masks. Finland and Norway have best dealt with this corona crisis in Western European countries. Norway gave 14.8. its first recommendation on public transport in Oslo. Recommendation 13.8. was issued in Finland and revised 24.9. In Friday’s sectional discussion it was said at noon that the medical magazine Lancet has said it and said it. I spent the weekend searching for literature and going through everything that was written in Lancet about the corona epidemic during this epidemic. Of course, time does not allow this to be quoted, but since it is a scientific magazine, for example, there was a public opinion paper referring to the WHO, the World Health Organization, in its Recommendation 6.4. had not yet recommended the use of folk masks. And then the authors Cheng, Lam and Leung wondered whether this would be justified and pointed out that in some countries this has been done. 1.6. came a new article using the verb "could" and said that "face masks would produce the epidemiic" — that is, could reduce the epidemic. But at the same time it also referred to the fact that it depends on the type of masks being used and on the intensity of the epidemic. Then, on August 3, a somewhat clearer statement came in an article. The situation in Finland was that on July 29th. — this is directly from Yle’s news, which is why I now have this iPad with me — the title was ‘The benefits of a doctor’s master mask’. TAYS’s University Hospital,the chief infection doctor says:‘It is totally unclear,the scientific evidence is not geared towards a knowledgeable person.’ The same is true of TYKS, the Hospital District of Varsinais-Suomi, the head doctor responsible for infectious diseases and Irma Koivula, the chief physician responsible for infectious diseases in northern Savo. And these were contributions to the appearance of HUS assistant chief Eeva Ruotsalainen at the A-Studio. And later, in this article, administrator Teppo Heikkilä states as HUS’ position: “At present, the epidemic is very peaceful. The current position of HUS has not changed since June when we stated that there is no need to adopt a national recommendation on the use of masks.’ In other words, even at the end of July, Finnish infectious doctors have discussed this issue. So now, in my opinion, this has been done quite wisely and wisely in Finland. There was another situation in the spring. There is another situation in the autumn when we are now trying to keep the economy open, and at the moment we are recommending masks. My Own article on the subject May 12
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u383	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u384	Mr President! Just a few more words about the budget. The Government is now rejecting cuts to services that are essential and important for people, such as health care or comprehensive school, by means of a large municipal package. Every elderly person needs and deserves quality care, and nurses need better working conditions. This is why the Board of Directors implements the human resources dimension in improved service housing and long-term institutional care for older people. At the same time, the government rightly seeks to increase the education of the care sector. This is a holiday for Finns when the government agreed on a social welfare reform that curbs costs and secures services. It is important to work on it to make it happen. Finland is only successful with knowledge, which is why compulsory education is renewed until the age of 18 and early childhood education fees are reduced and continuous learning is promoted throughout Finland. This is the entire Finnish budget. In this way, government decisions also create the conditions for sustainable growth in skills and employment. The extension of compulsory education and the reduction of early childhood education fees are also important in the fight against poverty in families with children. For example, the price tag for upper secondary school studies is up to 3000 euros, depending on the course choices, which may be too much for families with low incomes or multiple children in particular. Now this is going to change. Young people's opportunities to train improve regardless of their family background. However, I still wonder that the assembly is so strongly opposed to this, that in the future, regardless of the thickness of the parents' wallet, each young person will be free to choose which studies he or she will continue after comprehensive school.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u387	Mr President! A vibrant countryside is vital to Finland. Clean food grows on land, raw materials and natural resources are found on land. People are more comfortable in the middle of the corona at the cottage and are increasingly doing telework in a sparsely populated area. The multi-spatiality is progressing. During the previous term of government, Minister Leppä was successfully consulted on the financing of agriculture and rural development for the future programming period. That's when they made a good foundation. The negotiations were concluded in the summer with the Prime Minister. Korona surprised us and the whole world and changed a lot of things. The European recovery package is geared towards major investments in sparsely populated regions. Investment must contribute to sustainable development and the vitality of rural areas. What does the future of agriculture as a producer of Finnish clean food now look like? For a long time, the prospects for the future are good, despite Brexit. This amounts to EUR 7788 million, of which EUR 65 million is from the Agricultural Development Fund based on previous decisions. This will bring farmers the stability and long-term stability they want. Now we have the courage to invest, life goes on. Agriculture and forestry are present in climate work. That's why they're so important to us. We must look after both biodiversity, the welfare of farmers and the welfare of the entire industry. I am pleased to see that the Care-to-Guarantee activities will continue. Young farmers in particular should be continuously trained. Their peer support is worth investing in. I have a young man as a godfather. He is responsible and committed to his work. He raised the issue of increasing economic knowledge among young farmers. Agriculture is a strong entrepreneurship that requires knowledge and skills not only of the countryside but also of entrepreneurship. This requires accurate training in the spirit of continuous learning. This would be and will be a good task for vocational education and training in the event of a reduction in the number of students. There are many enthusiastic farmers and primary producers who want to grow and preserve. Mr President! During the corona period, many Finns have found nature, outdoor activities, nature sports, hunting and fishing. Nature tourism and rural tourism are also on the rise. The Nobel Peace Prize went to the right place this year, to the food program. ‘The foundation stone of Korona has taught us the importance of self-sufficiency and food safety. This includes farm animals and a sustainable, climate-wise livestock sector, where resources should be allocated to its development. I know a lot of people, like my farmers, who care for their farm animals with a great heart. Animals are also an important part of our leisure activities. They are an important part of farm tourism. In my previous job, horses were my coworkers lifting young people at risk of falling off their feet. Horses are talented therapists. As a horseman, I am delighted that Veikkaus' funds are being compensated so that Finnish horse training can continue. Rural tourism is also served by supporting village shops with EUR 2 million. It was started during the Sipilä era and now we continue. It is a good thing that more and more village shops will be eligible for support. The promotion of migratory fish by 3.7 million is also an opportunity for us as a tourist asset. After all, we are a land of great waters.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u388	Mr President! In my corresponding speech last year, I began by saying that there are many very favourable entries in the draft budget, for which I wanted to thank the government at the time. This was particularly the case for the Ministry of Justice. This year, the same line continues. There are a number of good points again in the proposal, and I would particularly like to highlight the role of reporting on violence against women to be established next year. Domestic violence, and violence against women in particular, is a disgrace in Finland year after year, and everything must be done to eradicate it. For taking this into account, thank you to the government. The draft budget for next year contains a number of good points such as the one mentioned above. The problem is, however, the whole problem. Mr President! Over the past autumn, there has been a growing concern about our economy in the discussions alongside the interest rate. It is perfectly acceptable that, in such a situation, the state should be in debt in order to get past the acute crisis — hardly any of us here will disagree. Rather, the question is what is the counterpart in the second balance, how we try to balance our economy, because the only thing that ultimately guarantees the future of the welfare society is a strong and stable state economy. In its own programme, the government also notes that the rise in employment rates is the single most important element of the income base. For some reason, even this year’s budget debate decisions seem to have forgotten this entry in the Government Programme. It is true that the government made some decisions in support of employment, but unfortunately with very little results. In addition, these decisions now adopted will aim for additional employment rather than the end of the government term by the end of the decade. It is clear that even small decisions can produce a number of figures, as long as the paint is moved far enough. I understand, of course, that there are things whose impact on employment will only be visible in the long term, but if the current situation is to be taken seriously enough, further action would definitely have been needed. You can't go behind the interest, and you don't have to appeal to the lack of time. There have been ways, and the government did not have to start from nothing. This is not an empty criticism of the opposition, but during the autumn there has been repeated criticism of the government's lack of employment, including outside the opposition. As long as the government does not table ambitious employment measures, we will simply remind you of this because the Nordic welfare society is only possible with a high Nordic employment rate. We have a lot of catching up to do with the other Nordic countries, and we need to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u391	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u392	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u393	I'm asking you to come in front and talk, and while you're waiting, you can disinfect your hands and take off the mask.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u394	Mr President! The Defence Policy Report, the Government Programme, this draft budget and the whole debate on the new multi-functional fighters are based on the fact that the HX project will fully replace Hornet's performance. It is important to emphasise that the Air Force's performance remains the same. This would be sufficient as technology develops, but since the Air Force actually wants to increase performance, the term relative performance has since been developed in the debate. Its meaning is fully defined by the soldiers. One remarkable performance definition was heard in the August-September period. The management of the HX project, the Chief Operations Officer of the Air Force, Colonel Juha-Pekka Keränen, was then made public by his assessment of what the performance of the new fighters means in practice: ‘If we reach 1’s ratio to 10, then there are six hundred fighters or bombers that have been released, then we will be able to fall down. “ This statement was made by Colonel Keränen at the Kipinä podcast of the Defence Forces and was widely distributed in the public domain, including Helsingin Sanomat. Mr President! In addition to this general explanation and outright delusion, the debate on the HX project has been characterised by the fact that it has not been possible to do so on the basis of sources of public authorities. The D.O.D.'s been covering up the files on the project. If you are familiar with the HX project, you will have to rely on sources other than those of the Finnish Defence Administration. An important source of this kind came out a few days ago. DSCA, the US Department of Defence, responsible for military technology trades abroad, made a statutory announcement to the US Congress on the possible sale of multi-functional fighters and their weapons and equipment to Finland. The notifications of the Boeing F-18 Super Hornet and Lockheed Martin F-35 A transactions related to the HX project were published on the Agency's website on Friday 9 October. According to the announcements, the Boeing Super Hornets and Growlers are prepared to be sold to Finland with weapons for a price of EUR 12.5 billion. It is possible to sell a total of 72 machines to Finland. The sale of 64 Lockheed Martin F-35 fighters with weapons would be worth EUR 10.6 billion. The documents state that the United States provides Finland with equipment that in practice increases and improves its performance. So the U.S. Department of Defense documents are not about replacing performance, they're about improving it. This is quite revealing. The information released by the US authorities confirms the view that the purchase price of EUR 10 billion will be exceeded briskly in the Finnish HX project. Finland has believed that a limit of EUR 10 billion would have been set for the HX project, but next year's draft budget also leaves the peak open. The order authorisation has been entered in the budget so that the price of EUR 10 billion can be exceeded by ‘changes in cost levels due to contractual links’. Only the ‘amount needed to start operational preparedness’in So we'll get more later. What kind of weapons are we going to acquire for the machines? One in the U.S. Department of Defense announcement is paying particular attention. The air-to-ground impact capability would come from the ER version of the JASSM assault missile produced by Lockheed Martin. The current Hornet equipment is equipped with a standard version of 370 km range, whereas JASSM-ER flies up to 1000 km. These missiles have not yet been sold by the United States to non-NATO countries but are therefore prepared to sell them to Finland. Mr President! What do we need these 1,000-mile assault weapons for? Is the Air Force's goal to reach Moscow? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u395	Mr President! In my own speech, I would like to come back to a little more down to the ground. Of course, when we discussed this year's budget proposal in the budget debate, there was an increase in the use of forests in this country. We must all recognise the undeniable fact that renewable energy and Finnish forests are our only real resource. It is also our only true carbon sink.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u396	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u397	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u398	Mr President! What a weighty thing to say from Mr Hoskos, thank you for these. — — — — A few words on the budget categories where there was no opportunity to speak. First on the agriculture and forestry budget and then on the budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice. First, a few words about wolves. As a result of a preliminary EU ruling, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry set up clearing teams at the beginning of the year to investigate the initiation of wolf stock hunting. At this stage, no precise date was given for the completion of the study. The project will last at least until the end of 2020. Citizens have expressed a strong wish to start the wolf's stand-keeping hunt by submitting the citizens' initiative to Parliament with over 50,000 signatures. The growth of the stock, the garden wolf phenomenon, the livestock damage and the scratching of hunting dogs have caused concern to the public. Parliament must be given the current status of the wolf's stock hunting project. The public must finally be informed when the results will be published by the working groups set up for the survey and when it would be possible to start hunting for the wolf's stock at the earliest. It is great that there is enough room to start stock-management hunting, but if the survey does not have a timetable and it just floats in the air, the start of hunting will be delayed and the damage will increase. Mr President! Then there is the matter of the administration of the Ministry of Justice. Getting into a debt arrangement is the best solution for many debtors in terms of debt settlement and their own future. Society should make every effort to address the factors affecting the exclusion of young people. Young people’s access to the debt arrangement is often hindered by temporary insolvency. At present, access to the debt facility is a requirement that unemployment is not considered temporary. The upper limit of temporary unemployment is considered to be 18 months in the current legislation. A young person struggling with debt problems who has been unemployed for 18 months is particularly at risk of exclusion. By reducing the unemployment requirement by half a year, it would be possible to tackle the fatal development of society and young people themselves. I have also tabled a proposal for a correction as a legislative initiative, which will be possible for representatives to sign up to 16 November. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u399	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I thought I'd ask Minister Kiuru a few questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u400	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u401	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u402	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u403	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u404	Mr President! The public will receive feedback on this masculine speculation that there are more important things than the visit to spring masculine speculation. I agree with you, and I am not going to talk about this here. I will come back to dinner, there was talk of agricultural matters then. This corona has taught us in a great many ways, and above all, our security of supply and self-sufficiency have become something else, and it is precisely the way in which agricultural conditions are secured in the event of a corona, mainly for the benefit of workers and, above all, for their competence. We have already lost a significant number of workers in agriculture, and seasonal workers have then had to be searched with cats and dogs on the other side of the border. When I looked at the budget, I noticed that when we had previously established water cooperatives, there is currently no funding for water cooperatives in the budget — perhaps a certain amount of it has been mentioned on the natural resource side, but otherwise — and we currently have a few water projects in the kingdom that have been so big and significant that they have only been able to be carried forward in small parts of the budget in certain areas. At least where we come from, one waste sewer cooperative has now been left without funding, and this would be very important if the waste water were to be properly disposed of. There has been talk of these negative issues during the day and then of how to communicate about the provinces. This wolf politics. I therefore understand that the Minister had taken the view that a working group would be set up to identify this issue, and this is also becoming a citizens' initiative, and I assume that it will now be before us in this House in the near future. This is something that may not be understood here in the village of paint, but when I myself am a hunter and the intention is to go hunting deer this weekend, so when we don't know where there are wolves in our area, no one dares take their dog there. The loss of such a valuable dog, which is already partly a family member, is a significant loss for family and hunters. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u405	Mr President! Today there was also a debate on the budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture in the state budget for next year, which is about EUR 7 billion. This is an increase of more than EUR 100 million in relation to this year's budget, and there was a debate on this subject in relation to the extension of compulsory education. Mr President! I wonder at the opposition's opposition to the extension of compulsory education. I wonder whether the opposition understands that, for example, upper secondary school studies can cost up to EUR 3000 depending on course choices — not to mention how much a price tag will be awarded in certain areas of vocational education. It can be too much for low incomes in particular or for parents — or parents — of families with many children. The opposition, you speak of this as serving only the rich and the well-off. We must remember that in society we also have families with limited means. Why are you opposed to equal access to education for all? After this, you would not have to look at the thickness of your wallet in terms of further studies, but you would be free to continue your studies after comprehensive school. Mr President! It seems that the Coalition Party, just like the rest of the opposition, again wants to remain on the wrong side of history, as in the 1960s in the reform of primary schools. Even then, the Coalition Party and the rest of the right were opposed to an equal comprehensive school and would have liked to continue the dividing model of primary and secondary schools. In the eyes of the right, comprehensive school reform was seen as a left-wing conspiracy and ideological thinking. The same debate is taking place again today in these same halls. In the comprehensive school reform, the Finnish Association of Maalainenliitto — Maalainenliitto and the Minister of Education Johannes Virkineninen became the solver. Comprehensive school reform was achieved through co-operation with red soil — co-operation with red soil.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u406	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u407	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u408	Ärade Herr Talman! Det nuvarande budgetförslaget är det första någons med det nya ekonomiska systemet för Ålands självstyrelse. Det är är en del av den stora självstyrelselagsrevisionen där TVå helheter ännu kvarstår, varav en är i riksdagen, och som inkluderats i budgetförslaget, och den andra som ska ges till ricksdagen nästa år då Ålands självstyrelse phyller 100 år. Det ox ekonomiska systemet är viktigt för Åland och utvecklar Ålands självstyrelse. Det är frukten av ett långsiktigt arbete där väldigt många variant involverade. Jag vill tacka nuvarande regering och förra regeringen lixom nuvarande ricksdag och förra riksdage för allt samarbete i dessa frågor. Som ni vet kan Ålands självstyrelselag ändras bara i grundlagsenlig ordning med TVå tredjedelars majoritet i andra behandlingen. Processen har således variants beroende av ett brett samarbete och en stor förståelse. De kommentde åren kommer nya processer och viktiga frågor för Åland och självstyrelsen där detta arbete kan fungera som ett bra exempel på det lagarbete som behövs för att komma framåt. Irade the Talman! Åland genomever nu den värsta ekoniska krisen i modern tid. Finanskrisen för drygt 10år sedan var en lätt bris i Jämförelse med den ekonomska storm som coronakrisen har spat. Smittläget på Åland är mycket lugnt, vilket vi är glada för, men de econska effekterna är catastrophala eftersom krisen i synnerhet har slagit mot hjärtat i den åländska ekonom är sjöfart, tjänster och tourism. Åland har hast total under 30 bekräftade measurede, men effekterna på economist's harvarit brutala. Flera finländskt flaggade fartyg ligger upplagda, och många andra kör med reducerad besättning på grund av begränsningar och viljande efterfrågan. En stor del av sjömännen och befäl har variants permitterade. Turismen har haft den sämsta säsingen i modern tid. Bland you give det raj gjorde att arbetslösheten i maj ökade till 13.4 percent från 3.2 percent ett år tidigare. Därför är vi tacksamma för allt statligt ekonomiskt stöd som också inkluderat Åland samt att det funnits insatser för sjöfarten som också finns i det ai budgetförslaget. Förslaget om fortsata cheaperade farledsavgifter är viktigt och stöder finländsk sjöfart samtidigt som det stöder Finlands export. Ännu mer insantser har gjorts via tillaggsbudgetar tidigare i år, och om situationen inte förbättras hoppas jag att regeringen är redo att genomföra ytterligare töd eftersom sjöfarten är viktig för Åland och Finlands kommunikationer samt sysselsätningen. Irade the Talman! Ålands ekonomiska situation är mycket oroande. Åland har normalt sett ingen arbetslöshet i practicen och arbetslösheten är mycket sallan ovanför 4 percent. Att nu ha en location med arbetslöshet på över 10 percent är mycket oroande, effectsom arbetslösheten på Åland historiskt sett betytt utflytning. Vi oroar oss därför mycket för de långsiktiga effekterna och att Ålands befolkning kan börja minska som en consekvens av den arbetslöshet och ekonomiska chock som scapats av coronapandemin. Vi kommer använda alla verktyg som vi har för att vi inte ska få utflytting utan konna fortsätta växa. Men au behövs insatser för economist, och där har självstyrelsen i denna pandemi inte alla de verktyg som behövs, utan är också de statliga instserna oerhört viktiga och centrala. Av den anledningen är det ännu viktigare n vanligt med en activ dialogue mellan regeringen och Ålands landskapsregering i denna exceptionella tid.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u409	Mr President! They were hoping we wouldn't talk about masks much more. I am just going to say briefly to this beginning that the excellent editor-in-chief Antero Muka's article today told us what this is all about. It's about trust in the administration. It is important that Finns can continue to be confident that politicians are telling the truth and that government can be trusted, and that is why this issue is also very important. In my own speech, however, I am going to focus on the budgetary debate. Next year's budget seeks to offset the acute effects of the corona crisis, and in many places, at least in terms of the amount of money, we will succeed. Unfortunately, the government is also doing a lot of things that make it difficult for us to survive after the crisis. An example of this is the municipal economy. The government is now giving the municipalities a much-needed, large-scale package of support to try to get the municipalities out of this crisis. Unfortunately, however, the situation in municipalities, especially in growing cities, is particularly hampered by rising unemployment and lay-offs. Some of these subsidies, which are now targeted at the operating conditions of companies and also at municipalities, can soften the dripping that is coming to the municipalities. However, we all know that this support does not, unfortunately, completely prevent it, but that adjustment measures must be taken if we are to achieve a long-term balance in the local government economy. In the long term, the only thing that would balance local government finances would be employment growth. In Vantaa, only the loss of tax revenues in the airport area will be EUR 15 million this year, and when all other tax reductions are taken into account, it will take us a long time to overcome this crisis. Therefore, from the point of view of local government finances, the biggest act that the government could do would be to take swift action on employment that would affect both the short and the long term. Mr President! Here Mr Yrttiaho spoke quite critically about this HX project and its funding. However, the Coalition Party considers that this funding for the HX project is very welcome. Confident national defence must be taken care of in all situations. Even in this situation, the acquisition of the destroyer must not be postponed. Contributions to defence equipment procurement are essential for national defence. New investments in material procurement are also important after last year's cutbacks. The interest crisis has at least shown the importance of crisis management, and the Coalition Party hopes that the importance of crisis management will be fully taken into account, especially now that we are still in the middle of the crisis. Mr President! I would like to raise one more point which I did not have enough time to deal with in the case of the Ministry of Education and Culture, and that is exercise and mobility. Unfortunately, the interest crisis has led to a reduction in mobility in many age groups. Of course, in the spring it particularly affected older people who had long, perhaps even a little too much, been locked up in isolation in their own homes as cautious people. Many people’s mobility was seriously weakened. Important measures are needed to translate this. Another area of concern is the exercise of children and young people, which also significantly decreased with distance education. From research data it is known that the most important thing about shaping children’s exercise habits — and in fact it affects adulthood, up to the age of 40 — is exercise with parents. That is why I have already suggested several times that a ball should be included in the maternity package. This could be used to communicate the importance of physical activity. It would be a tool for parent-child interaction. In addition, the maternity clinic should also tell you that exercise and exercise together with the child also affect the well-being of the child, not just the well-being of the parent, as is largely emphasised today. Mr President! Also to the question that I raised here in the debate, namely the concern that even this budget will not bring us closer to the target of four per cent of Finland's spending on research. I hope that the government will pay attention to this and will also invest enough in this in the years to come, because without the help of the state, companies will not be able to achieve it alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u410	Mr President! The Marin Government's draft budget for 2021 shows that even in a difficult economic and employment situation, the government is committed to taking care of the welfare, livelihood and health of the most vulnerable Finns. It is a question of value policy and value choices. Instead of tax reductions and social security cuts that favour the opposition's rich people, Finland is now investing in reducing early childhood education fees, reforming wage support, extending compulsory education and improving the position of part-time workers. In other words, instead of cutting back on the unemployed, this government is offering a human-driven and fair employment policy to revitalise the economy as medicines. For example, reducing early childhood education fees is an employment measure that does no harm to anyone but, on the contrary, facilitates the daily lives of families and the reconciliation of work and family life. In particular, early childhood education fees will decrease for low incomes and, in addition to improving employment, measures will strengthen the right of each child to early childhood education. Mr President! As we well know, Finland is really only successful with knowledge, and that is why this extension of compulsory education is one of the most important reforms of the government in this decade. I repeat that it is difficult to understand the opposition's criticism of this reform of equality in education, from which all our children and young people benefit, over and over again. Mr President! One very important issue in relation to employment is the fact that the level of unemployment security is finally being moderated. The maximum length of qualifying points will fall and a notice procedure will be put in place, which will no longer result from a single human error in the future from unemployment benefit. At the same time, services for the unemployed will be strengthened. Unemployment is certainly not a crime, so it must not be punished either. Instead, it is important for society to help acquire new jobs and the skills it requires. The so-called Nordic job search model combines an individual job search obligation with a significant strengthening of services. Today, when the loss of a single job offer is punished by a 60-day interval, these human errors will not lead to the loss of subsidies. That too is the fair employment policy. Mr President! In this economic situation, recovery is the most important employment policy. In addition, the long-term industrial, energy and tax policy solutions decided by the Government in the budget debate will strengthen Finland as a safe, predictable and competitive country and will continue to invest in employment. With a large support package for municipalities, the Government aims to secure basic services for citizens and prevent short-term service cuts and possible layoffs and redundancies. The municipalities will also be reimbursed for all the direct costs incurred by the interest rate, so this government will indeed also take responsibility for the difficult economic situation in the municipalities. Mr President! In the midst of such a crisis that is shaking the whole country and the world, we are all in the same boat, and we are all now required to be responsible and able to act quickly to ensure the health, livelihood and security of our citizens. Fortunately, this government has the capacity and the courage to take responsibility in all situations and also the determination to push forward the reforms whose fruits may well mature slowly but surely.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u411	Mr President! I listened carefully to Mr Heinonen's speech here earlier, and I can only say that ingratitude is the world's reward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u412	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u413	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u414	Mr President! I am not going to make a second speech on this matter of masks, but, as I said at the beginning of my speech, today has been a particularly important day for the progress of social welfare reform. Of course, someone may say that it has to do with the 2021 budget. Well, it does, because there is funding for the preparation of this structural change, but, above all, it is, of course, linked to the budget for 2023 if and when this reform is progressing on schedule. Then we will have more than EUR 10 billion more visible in the state budget, which is currently in the municipal budget when the municipalities’ own funding for social welfare and health care services is transferred to the state. We have a lot in public, as part of this political debate of course, also criticised this reform, although at the time, for example in the spring of 2014, all the parliamentary parties agreed with the reform guidelines. In this context I would like to remind you — this is, of course, such a single event, but it is symbolically of great value — that when the London Olympics were opened in 2012 and there was a grand opening ceremony in the Wembley field for more than three hours, 7,000 dancers wore white clothes with a combination of letters NHS, which is the British National Health Service, a state health care system created in 47 under the Labour Government. It has magnificent aerial photographs taken from a high level, and the desire at such a major international event to pay tribute to public health care in one’s own country is an indication of how firmly they are trusted and believed in this system. In Finland, it would be difficult to imagine at the moment that any major event would begin by making a combination of letters ‘soil’,but self-confident that this direction,where we are moving from the 300national funding system to future funding from 22countries in the region,is the right direction,wherewe are increasingequality,which is very high between municipalities,butwe alsoencourage efficiency,wehaveimplementedintegrational care,basichealthcare,oldcareandothersocialservicesin the same area of funding and organisation. This has been an important day in that I wanted it to be included in this debate on the budget as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u415	Mr President! The programme inherited by the Marin government from its predecessor was built on the continuation of favourable economic development. Unfortunately, however, this assumption proved unrealistic, and the government has not found ways of raising our national economy to its feet. In particular, measures to promote employment in the private sector are missing. Mr President! Expectations for employment measures have increased since the beginning of the parliamentary term. However, concrete ways of raising the employment rate to at least 75% were not found in the budget debate. Instead, the government postponed the target to the end of the decade of government indebtedness and drew up a budget proposal with a deficit of more than EUR 10 billion next year. Mr President! Due to the sustainability of Finland’s public finances, the new items of expenditure must be treated with particular caution. The Government Programme should be completely rewritten. However, despite the weakened economic situation, the government is not even going to be flexible about the timetable for spending increases. We all appreciate education very much, but many experts also consider, for example, the increase in compulsory schooling age to be unrealistic in the current situation. The EU Recovery Fund and the cost of immigration will significantly increase Finland's debt. As a by-product of the social and regional reform, a new form of tax law is threatened. As in the last period, there will no longer be any savings in the reform of social security. Mr President! The expansion of the public sector will increase the pressure on tax increases. The tightening of taxation will result in higher cost levels and lower competitiveness. In order to maintain its purchasing power, the employee partner must aim for ever higher wage increases. On the other hand, reducing labour taxation and secondary costs would improve purchasing power and facilitate employment. It would also be necessary to restore the household allowance at least to its previous level. Mr President! The government still lacks a coherent and clear plan to tackle the corona epidemic. A good strategy based on tracking and isolation will not work in itself if the source of infection remains unclear in the majority of cases. Consumers will then vote with their wallets when the epidemic accelerates. In Vaasa, for example, shopping centers and restaurants quickly slowed down as infections increased exponentially. Mr President! Investing in both the prevention and early detection of infections would reduce the risk of disease spread and new diseases, and at the same time allow the business community to continue its activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u416	Mr President! This question of mistrust, which was to be discussed today — we also expected Minister Kiuru to be here — is not about how the corona epidemic has been managed. It has been very successful, and we have also said this on many occasions about the opposition. Many thanks go to the Minister, partly to the Government, partly to THL, STM, regions — and above all to Finns who have acted responsibly. In fact, the opposition has supported these efforts, as the opposition and also the Finnish people, in the spring, were led to believe that these decisions have always been based on the best recommendations of health experts. It has now become clear that this is not the case, and this is our mistrust. It is therefore a question of whether Parliament, the Finnish people, has been told whether there has been transparency, that independent expert agencies have been allowed to act independently, as they were established at the time, during the time of the then Minister Risiko. It was not established as a cashier for the government, but as an independent expert agency, an institution for health and well-being. But during this crisis it has now become clear that THL was subjected to STM, in quotation marks, at least some kind of control or guidance. Whose decision was this? Did the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, its Chief of Staff, Minister Kiuru, or the entire Government decide on this? We have not received an answer to this. It has also been said, Mr President, that in the spring there was no recommendation for masks, because there was a shortage of masks — so it was said that they were of no use. So masks were not recommended because they did not exist and people were told that they were useless. This measure, which has shown itself, was intended to cover up the fact that the mask situation had not been sufficiently prepared. That is where I raised a number of questions earlier. I expected Minister Kiuru to have come back to Parliament after the end of the A-Studio and the live TV show, but when he has not come, I will ask you a written question. I'm not going to go through it this far. He will then be able to answer them in writing. But it is a question of how this crisis has been done: whether it has been transparent, whether the truth has been told to the Finnish people, for example, about why there was no recommendation for a mask in Finland. 15 May. — May — According to Yle’s survey, masks were already mandatory in more than 50 countries. In Finland, the government did not prescribe face masks, did not even issue a recommendation, and now it has been established that THL wanted to make a recommendation, would have liked to advise people on their use, but the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, led by Krista Kiuru, prevented it, banned the independent expert agency from doing the task assigned to it, to educate Finns on health and well-being issues. Markku Tervahauta, Director General of THL, stated in an interview with journalist Marja Sannika, when she was asked why she was not made of the recommended facial masks: ‘The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which is responsible for issuing this type of recommendation,has wanted to keep it that way. We look forward to how the Ministry will react after further clarifications have been made.” The reporter asked: ‘Is there a reason why the Ministry has not made a recommendation? “ Your tarbreath:‘I havetheconceptionthatthese movements are not associated with This may be politicised in some way, for example. There may be aspects here that are not just scientific or knowledge-based”,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u417	Mr President! Several speeches have been made here today on the current corona situation and what it has taught us. In particular, representatives from the centre have visited that toilet and their place several times to repeat how educational this corona has been to us and that it brings up the certainty of our own food production, and that is a very important point, I agree with that. Only one representative from downtown is in some way sane when he comes to talk about peat. All these other people who repeat this important issue of food production have completely forgotten, and the Central Party has completely forgotten this issue of peat. Why not say that energy production is extremely important? It's as important as food production. This is so that I wish the corona had taught me something about it too. Mr Hänninen then spoke of that, criticised the opposition for raising the age of compulsory education, and I must say that I too was beginning to think it was a good thing. I look at it from a special teacher's point of view and I see that it is a very important issue. From that point of view, I thought it would be really great — just from the angle of these special students — if they were all allowed to finish secondary school. But then an older representative here accidentally revealed this to me that this applies only to the age of 18. This is going to totally ruin my point of view. I am in no way in favour of this increase in compulsory school age, because it is limited to that 18 years, and with my experience it completely destroys the point of view that I thought it was great that society takes the special students to the end of secondary school. This is my brief speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u418	Mr President! Many things have been discussed here. I was thinking of talking about the services of the elderly because they are still demanding that they be developed. But first a few words about these masks, too. At the time, when I was a minister, at least I learned that all decisions should be based on facts and then state the reasons on which they are based, and then do not belittle the citizens. Now there is the feeling that the thinking of its citizen has been underestimated and that its citizens are now enduring this kind of information. The public will be able to endure, and the public will like to be told the truth. I am very pleased that Mr Tervahauta came forward as Director-General of the THL. In its day, the Public Health Institute, which has official tasks, and then Stakes, the Centre for Social and Health Development, was put together and became the Institute for Health and Welfare, and it should be a research institute based on facts. I think the tar pit showed heroism in coming out and telling me what happened. That's what you have to do. That's what you have to do. Then I will say that it has been well mentioned here why this motion of censure has appeared and has been made. But if Secretary Kiuru were still here... I have already said this in private to the ministers, but at least that is what we learn from the swine flu age that there should be a communication group with lawyers, epidemiologists and communication experts. This communication has now been too confusing. No matter how good things have been done, they are somehow like splattered there, and then when you think about how many steps there are, let's take, for example, school-based communication, then there's the Department of Health and Welfare, there's the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, there's the Avs, there's the municipalities, there's the education providers, then there's the schools, and then there's those classes and teachers. So we have to get everyone the same information, and unfortunately, that message has always been broken. And then, even in the spring, there were so many situations that, quite lawyerically, there were very special interpretations. Well, this is what I wanted to say here, that it is worth sticking to the truth and building trust, and I think Tarhauta showed that we can rely on the National Institute for Health and Welfare because he came out. But let's talk about getting old. Last week it was Old People's Week, and the theme of the week was "Happy Ages". Personally, I would continue to say that happiness is old if the attitude in society is right and services are available on time. Recently, a publication of the Research Group of Aalto University and the University of Eastern Finland entitled “The Problems of War Ageing” was published. The report is also welcome for us decision-makers. Many important things are said directly by experts, but they particularly emphasise home services and rehabilitation in good time. According to them, additional capacity is needed specifically for home care, light care and rehabilitation. According to them, passive institutional treatment should be discontinued, as it makes several patients long-term patients, even if they are otherwise able to rehabilitate themselves. Rehabilitation, especially after an acute hospital period, reduces the need for long-term care. The research group's presentations are the same as those reported to us decision-makers by the regional change agents of older services during the last parliamentary term. I do not know where that report is going to be pollinated — it would be good for Minister Kiuru to dig up from the archives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which is where it is fully relevant to what should be done in those municipalities now. Our country has high-quality services for the elderly. Similarly, we have skilled and motivated staff. However, we have a lot to develop, as many studies show. There are not enough housing options and functional rehabilitation available. There are problems with home delivery services and access to informal care support, and if there are services, there is not enough. The majority of elderly people are in home care, but only one third of the staff work in home care. In other words, rehabilitation and home care, services to be taken home and housing, diverse housing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u419	Mr President! The field of events still suffers, but nothing happens. It comes to mind that the field of events is neither appreciated nor understood. Let us now bring up a few key figures on this issue. There are some 3,200 companies in the sector. The total value of the industry before the interest rate was approximately EUR 2.35 billion, some 20,000 employees and up to 175,000 temporary workers. As a result of the interest-rate crisis, the value of the sector is threatened to disappear by up to EUR 1.5 billion this year. As a result of the interest crisis, the number of people left without work is as high as 9,000. During the spring and summer, 136,000 people have not been employed — quite a number. Mr President! Since 13 March, activities in the field of events were completely prohibited and 1.6. from strongly restricted, without compensation. Business subsidies are tailored in a way that closes the creative sectors to a large extent. There have been zero errors in the participant instructions issued by the authorities. This situation has been intolerable for far too long, as well as intolerable. In addition to the disappearance of jobs and businesses, there is a great risk that a huge number of specialist skills in the sector will disappear once and for all. In the event sector, we can rightly talk about industry, its importance in the Finnish cultural field and in the economy is very significant. But let us not forget the role of the event industry in building well-being, which has a clear and indisputable link to improving and strengthening mental health. I am very surprised why the government, which likes to represent the cultural sectors, treats the creative sector in this way. Does the government intend to do anything to ensure that the jobs in the event sector do not disappear permanently in Finland? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u420	Mr President! Mr Heinonen has just spoken, and I think he was quite right to say that, in the event of a corona crisis of this kind, decision-making must be based on ‘the assessments of the best health experts’.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u421	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u422	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u423	Mr President! There is not much to add to Mr Kiljunen's speech at the moment, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that Mr Heinonen has just said one thing in a rather strange way in his own speech, and that is why I had to ask for this speech. With reference to my own earlier speech and to what Mr Kiljunen has just said, it is precisely that in April, in May, the international scientific community held a debate on these matters. And it must be remembered that the protection of health care personnel with medical masks is quite different from what is known as folk masks. On 1 June 20 in Lancet, six researchers, last names Chu, Akl, Duda, Solo, Yaacoup, Schünemann, published a meta-analysis. Meta-analysis means that they went through all the actual analyses where these masks had been dealt with. It had a total of 216 of these types of research at the bottom. Their strong view was that distances are the most important. It has graphic images showing that a distance of less than 1 m or more than 1 meter is the number one thing. Then — note. — quite interesting thing: there was talk of infection on the mucous membranes of the eye, and that is why, for example, now that I see that Mr. Kiljunen has that visor, we could actually turn this mask into the next debate on whether we should actually use such visor instead of such mask, because eyes are one of these sources of infection. And then it mentioned that masks, in the English language, ‘inhighlypopulitedareasimight’,in densely populated areas with a lot of disease,thereis supposed to be additional benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u424	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u425	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u426	I would remind you that the debate will mainly take place next year on a budget with almost EUR 60 billion in circulation, and perhaps in proportion to this debate on masks this evening, it is time, I might say, for a mask.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u427	Mr President! That is precisely the case, there is a debate on next year's budget, and now this debate has reached this debate on masks. In this difficult situation of interest rates, Mr President, while historic social and health care reform is being carried out, some masks are being discussed and motions of censure against ministers are being tabled. Is this proper action in such a situation as, for example, the State Care Party’s Assembly? Somehow it feels like this kind of emergency, martial law, is being used to make politics. [Sari Multala’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u428	Mr President! So let's make a fresh look at a slightly different subject than a mask or something like that, that is, going to state schools. After all, children and young people have been placed in state schools of this kind, which are quite challenging cases. Many people have a number of failed investments, and often the situation is that they will then have the next address in special care if it does not work, and there will also be people who are suffering from pantarangs. In this regard, the Ombudsman had recently carried out inspections in one school unit and made an approach according to which these state school homes should not restrict the movement of children placed. This means that they have free movement without supervision. The situation has become very worrying since the alignment. There have been numerous police missions in schools, drug abuse problems have gotten out of hand and violence has increased. There have been cases where minors are even armed for staff. Such violent attacks on staff in such an institution are not a new or extraordinary thing. I myself have been in a situation where the personnel have been attacked by very deadly forces and consequences. This is a very serious situation. I recently asked the Chancellor of Justice, and he replied that in such a situation we need to get the resources and training in order and the legislation up to date. With this change and policy, teaching in state schools has become quite impossible, because children have been so confused that they are unable to participate in education and they are very easily able to opt out of education because restrictions and controls must not be made. I would very much like to ask the government what is to be done with this kind of situation. This requires swift action. This is about underage people, and it's even about people's lives. Mr President, it cannot go so far as to get mixed up and to get up. This is our responsibility. As the Chancellor of Justice has said, resources, training and legislation need to be put in order. Nothing should stop us from working. Then I will also bring up a little compulsory education in this connection. I am in favour of continuing compulsory education. It is an excellent idea at a time when basic education and early childhood education have put things in order — adequate support for students who then need it. After these are in order, compulsory education can be continued for me, for example, up to the age of 50. [Antti Lindtman’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u429	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u430	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u431	Mr President! The representative Lindén here reviewed these benefits and disadvantages of masks, and I recommend that you see that tonight evening Sanomat has written a rather distinguished collection of how different protective devices work and what research results are involved in them. In fact, it is stated, among other things, about these visors, of which Mr Kiljunen has said that, once it has been established that coronavirus is also transmitted as aerosols, the visor does not protect them as much as 2%, and it is therefore not a very effective protection. In other words, there will be more research on this issue all the time, and I am sure that it has already proved beyond doubt that they can effectively control the spread of this virus. In this context, however, I would like to say a few more words about this compulsory education, when perhaps, as is often the case with the government parties, we are trying to turn the debate away from the challenges that are obviously linked to this. I said earlier here that the problem with this whole proposal is that it does not specifically have the elements that can help. These young people, who are now either dropping out of secondary school or falling before secondary school, there during primary school, 4,000 pupils are already falling from primary schools and schoolchildren each year — how does this reform help them? There has not yet been an actual answer to this, for there will be no additional resources for comprehensive school in this reform, nor will there be any additional resources for it... Of course, in the joint phase, yes, and they are good things, but when most of the resources go to paying for the books and school rides, it does not contain the elements by which these young people can stay there in school during their compulsory education even for the 18 years — of course, it is now an obligation, it will certainly help a part, but the completion of the degree that is a prerequisite for employment. I really hope, now that the government is taking this reform through, that we are wrong. I hope that this reform will help those young people. I hope that, as it were, forcing them to go to the second stage, will make them understand that they need that training and make them work and, on the other hand, that the municipalities are responsible for that effort, to support their efforts to obtain the necessary knowledge and skills there during the primary school, which will then carry them to the second level, to the degree, but unfortunately I do not see the elements in this reform that would achieve this objective, and that is why we are concerned, and this timetable is also very tight. It was also mentioned in the earlier part of the budget debate that these training policy issues were also choices, and in the last period good results were used to try free early childhood education for five-year-olds, and the recommendation was based on a direct transition to two-year pre-school education. However, without experimentation, it was now chosen to implement the extension of compulsory education from one end to the next.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u432	Mr President! It says here in the press release that the debate on this issue will also be allowed on this motion of censure by Minister Kiuru, and that is why I am going to take this floor. Here Mr Kiljunen, who unfortunately left here, said that there were different positions, just as Mr Lindén said. You're right. There were different positions in the spring. We had countries that wanted and felt that masks should be used, and experts must have been divided. Similarly, in Finland, experts were divided as to whether they should be used or not, but that cannot be the argument. I'm just wondering why they're being used now. Why is the argument now that they are good, [Aki Lindén’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u433	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u434	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u435	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u436	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u437	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u438	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u439	Mr President! The debate on the state budget has been lively, but there is one good feature. It has been the fact that, quite a bit of the interest rate measures and money proposed by the government have been supported since the criticism. A few more words on this matter of masks, perhaps directly to Mr Risiko, why there is now a recommendation and why not then.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u440	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u441	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u442	Mr President! I will not continue with that motion of censure by Minister Kiuru when he does not take part in Parliament's plenary session. I understand that when Parliament's activities are restricted because of interest rates, it has been agreed that ministers will take part in the debate when matters concerning them are under discussion, but this joint agreement is not respected. I hope that Mr Lindtman will also raise this tomorrow that ministers will attend Parliament's plenary sessions when there are questions about them, and especially when they are talking about their confidence. Mr President! What I would like to say about this state budget for next year, and the investment in education and training. I myself have previously been a teacher before becoming a Member of Parliament, and I consider it valuable that investments in education are made. Early childhood education is the first place to put bets. Free early childhood education is a good goal, two-year pre-school education too, and I would have expected that the government would have already completed that two-year pre-school education and not just experimented again. We would have had every opportunity to make a bolder step in it. Early intervention, early support, early help and teaching are an effective way to go. After that, we'll come to this study run. After all, the government is now extending it to 18 years, and the question is: does it actually guarantee a young person a secondary degree? No, no, no, no, no, no, At the age of 18, a young person does not have a matriculation examination, no high school diploma, including a vocational school certificate in hand, and that is the end of the obligation. And that is why it is questionable to talk here in the Chamber about the fact that everyone is now guaranteed a secondary school place. There have been excellent speeches here, including Mr Kilpi, that our problem has not been that young people do not go to school, but that they do not stay there at school. Now, perhaps with this coercion, if the applied student stays in school, that problem will move only a little further, but that does not guarantee, ladies and gentlemen, yet for them a secondary degree. This is free of charge: I myself am in favour of second-degree free of charge. I think it is good and it is worth moving forward with. And I hope that this applies to the whole second stage, that is to say the third year of high school, and also to all this secondary education. Personally, I would have done a great deal of similar measures, as a representative S.H.I.E.L.D.'s up. We should have made these efforts to strengthen early childhood education and comprehensive school, reduce group sizes, increase primary school teachers, strengthen special education — in fact, take one step back in special education and, for example, give the right, subjective right, to a small education group. Otherwise, it would be a very effective way for many children and young people. And make student care more efficient. Mr President! At the end, I would like to raise my concerns about Finnish sport. There is far too little talk in this Chamber of sports and sports, and few talk of top sports. I would like to see more Members of Parliament in this Chamber. I have heard Mr Multala, Mrs Wallinheim and a few others talk about it, but it is quite rare that we talk about, for example, top-notch sport and its funding. We are happy to celebrate the success of Finns together, but rarely are we prepared to invest in it. We now have a situation with this corona that our sports clubs will not survive this winter. Many of the hockey teams are in a very difficult place before Christmas. A number of major sporting events are falling apart, going bankrupt. We need to find a way to help these people beyond this crisis, not to mention the grass-roots activities and everything else. It's going to be a hell of a lot of trouble. And then, Mr President, to the end of the worry that the government, with its debt money, will now make up for this one year's loss of lottery money in the financing of physical activity, sport, culture, social and health services and others.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u443	Mr President! A motion of censure has been tabled to Mr Kiuru for a legitimate reason. From the point of view of parliamentaryism and the authority of Parliament, it would have been absolutely necessary for the minister to be present to answer the questions that have been raised here. Not only has the opposition been waiting for a report, but we have heard that the centre of the government parties has also been waiting today for a report from Minister Kiuru. We have not received any response, nor apparently the Central Party. Mr President! Similarly, Finns have the right to expect transparency and honesty from the administration, and that is what we would have expected. And we would have expected that we would have received a thorough report from Minister of Family and Basic Services Krista Kiuru if she had been here today. Mr President! It is a question of the spirit and health of Finns. The question is what kind of information is provided and what information is the basis on which decisions are taken. This is a very serious question. As far as the budget is concerned, there are a lot of good things in this budget book, but one is missing and then the whole budget of the country is lacking. It is very serious that this government base started to postpone employment measures even before the corona epidemic and continues to do so in a situation where it would take more than ever to work for Finns to have production, entrepreneurship, so that we can then maintain this Finnish welfare society. It must be said that this inability to take important decisions, structural reforms, sustainable measures to promote employment and entrepreneurship, seriously endangers the entire Finnish welfare society, and that is why we cannot support the government's employment policy. We have given support to interest-bearing activities, we want to work together in them, but we hope that they will be based on the latest information and that Finns will also be told honestly the different things behind the decision-making process. That is what we are calling for and we hope that the government will stick to this in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u444	Mr President! As a cultural person, I return to cultural matters and remain persistently separate from the masquerades. In its own draft budget for 2021, the Ministry of Education and Culture proposed that the number of artist pensions be increased from the current 51 pensions to 100 pensions. That is what the Ministry of Education and Culture put forward last year in its own budget proposal, but at that time the Rinte Government failed to implement this important withdrawal in the draft budget. In the autumn of 2019, I asked a written question to which Hanna Kosonen, then Minister for Science and Culture, replied: ‘However, for economic reasons, the number of pensions has not been increased. “ This year, after billions of coronas have been handed over to you and here, now in the budget debate, the Marin government would have had a thousand dollars to put money where it would have had an impact. It must be remembered that much of the artistry does not earn much pension during their careers, even though they work very hard and are valued in their work. Artists' incomes come from several sources of income and artists' pension systems are fragmented. The fact that copyright compensation does not pay a pension also affects the accrual of pensions. The additional artist pensions granted by the State are a very important basic security, especially for artists and writers, who often work as free artists. Currently, almost 90% of applicants for a state artist pension are left without a pension. In recent years, 51 artist pensions have been awarded annually. The additional artist pension in 2019 is EUR 1363 and 50 cents on top. The partial pension is half the amount of the full pension. Mr President! Now is the time to increase the number of artistic pensions to 100, so that long-term artists will be remembered for more than the speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u445	Mr President! I don't like people twisting what I'm saying. I have never once said that masks should not be used or masks are useless. I just told you that I was in movies where 80 percent wore masks, but I also gave an analysis in my earlier speech of the fact that in spring the situation was different in many ways. I will mention some figures. We had this epidemic at its strongest in the first week of April. At that moment we had over 200 people in hospitals, about 80 people in the ICU, new infections were detected that week 929. The following week, which began on April 11, 809 infections. The following week, which began April 18th, 704 infections. It came down so that the next week 656, then 600, then 411 and then 237. And now the week we are talking about when the Director-General of the THL has given interviews is this week when we had the number of infections dropped from level 950 to level 237. On the 12th of May, I wrote an opinion in the Turun Sanomat, which states in this way: ‘The risk of getting infected outside is extremely small — especially if we keep reasonable distance. In Turku, ordering tens of thousands of people to wear masks everywhere outside their home would not be justified. The main benefits of this would be mask traders. I do not believe that the current number of infections would become such a recommendation in Finland. Instead, indoors, where a large number of people are closely and for a long time, could be of some benefit in wearing a mask. Of course, it will be even safer if you can avoid such situations. Not everyone can.’ And this would be the time when we discussed these issues. In my earlier speech, I said here that, at the end of July, four of the doctors responsible for infection at five university hospitals were of the opinion that there was no need to give a general recommendation for masks, one disagreed, and among other things: HUS was of the opinion that their view in June that a general mask recommendation should not be issued was not necessary at that stage. Why now? Because at the moment we are keeping society open. We have not closed schools, we have not ordered home people over 70 years of age, we have not closed down the borders of Uusimaa and so on. We are trying to work here in society to make the economy run, and that is why we also have these general recommendations, distances and others that we also use here. This is very simple.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u446	Mr President! There is one more thing I wanted to talk to you about, which I have not yet mentioned in this debate on the budget, and that is mental health. Last week we spent the day of the mentally ill and also the world's mental health day. Regrettably many of us and our loved ones, certainly all of us, know someone or even have suffered from mental health problems. Interest certainly does not cure these problems, but may even make it worse when contacts were to be avoided, especially in the spring, and even at the moment it is not very advisable to have new contacts on terms that I would like to acquire for myself. Many lonely people may be even more alone. Therefore, it would be very important to improve access to treatment also in mental health services. This has also been the subject of a citizens' initiative, which is also referred to as a therapeutic guarantee. The Coalition Party has supported the implementation of this citizens' initiative and improved access to mental health services. Now the government is doing this social welfare reform, which has been announced today, new information, and access to treatment, the treatment guarantee is indeed being tightened up for seven days — but of course it could be done without this social welfare reform — but the actual therapeutic guarantee is obviously not being implemented. It is truly a pity, because mental health problems are at present the main cause of disability in Finland. I therefore hope that the government will understand the seriousness of this problem and will also seek to pay attention to access to mental health services. Another concern here is that today, when the government announces its social welfare solution, the government insists on the transfer of student and student care services to the provinces. I listened to the information, and it said at the mouth of Minister Krista Kiuru that some clarifications will be made in the legal text aimed at ensuring that the services at the schools would be maintained. Of course, it is difficult to know what those clarifications are, because that is one detail in this major reform and I have not yet seen the text of the law. However, the broad feedback was in favour of maintaining these services in the municipal education or education service as these services can be managed from there so that the adults at the school would cooperate as well as possible with all the other adults who support and also know the pupils there. Hopefully, this reform will not result in student and student care services, some of which are also mental health services, drifting further away from those young people and children.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u447	Mr President! I was thinking of talking about that therapy guarantee myself, and I will say a few words about it. To Mr Lindén, who is an expert person, and always with interest, I listen to what he says: Now that you have spoken with credit that we have now started to use these to keep Finland open, what if we had kept Finland open in the spring? We would not be in such a bad economic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u448	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u449	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u450	Mr President! The Ministry of the Interior’s administrative sector will receive EUR 39 million more than in the 2020 budget itself. It sounds good, but is it? The Minister of the Interior has been repeating from the outset how the number of police officers will be increased. I have asked several times in the past whether such increases and increases will actually go to ict costs and walls. They say they won't. In this draft budget, EUR 4.1 million will be spent on increasing the human resources of the police. A significant section of this will lead to the establishment of a group on the detection and investigation of trafficking in human beings. With this 10% stake in this 39 million increase, can it really be said that the number of policemen is increasing? Where do the other 90% go if they don't go to ict and real estate? The Minister of the Interior also stated today that the number of police officers will rise to 7,500 during this reign. With such additions it will not happen, and the calculations show that the number of policemen is already going down in 2022. It is also worth remembering that in the Nordic comparison we are in Finland with a large number of police officers. Even in Iceland there are clearly more cops. And, no matter what, there are clearly the least police officers in Finland throughout Europe. We have heard today how the Minister of the Interior has presented in this Chamber, how the services and visibility of the police will be increased in sparsely populated areas. In practice, however, it is in the very few areas where police stations are now being driven down and police posts are being relocated and concentrated on large stations. The police stations of Suonenjoki and Juankoski, from which police posts are being transferred to the main police station in Kuopio, can be taken as examples, and from there police missions in these sparsely populated areas are carried out. This is just one example of how few police activities in the region are currently being planned in reality, in reality. Is this the way to increase the visibility of the police's limited area by taking the police out of there? Well, the equation's kind of special, isn't it? Can you take it and give it at the same time? It's interesting to see you. When you look at this budget, you cannot escape the idea that it has now become contrary to the government programme. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u451	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Constitutional Committee must give its opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u452	Mr President! It is very late, but I would like to briefly talk about this because this is a very important issue. Last season, under the leadership of Minister Grahn-Laasonen, an experiment was carried out on free early childhood education for five-year-olds, and it had a very positive impact on the participation rate of children in early childhood education, which is among the lowest in Finland in the Nordic countries, as well as on learning outcomes when going to school or pre-school. On the basis of this experiment, the expert group decided to propose a two-year pre-school course and a transition to it. I am therefore pleased that this current government is now continuing along the same lines, not only in reducing early childhood education fees for all age groups, but also here in promoting two-year pre-school education. Of course, I would have liked to have seen the results of this free early childhood education for five-year-olds in this last period that it would have been possible to move forward directly towards extending compulsory education from this lower end, because it is known from a number of research results that it has a positive impact on the learning path. That would be precisely the early support, the early help that has been mentioned here. Of course, the government is doing a lot of good in early childhood education, including the introduction of a model of early childhood education support, but part-time inclusion of all children in early childhood education, that is, pre-school education, would compensate for learning differences by school and would help to tackle problems when all children were brought into the context of planned pedagogical education and education. This could also identify problems and provide the necessary assistance at an early stage. The Government has told us that in this pre-school experiment, the research project will start right here with the experiment. That is a very good thing. I believe that since there is already evidence of this in previous experiments both in Finland and, of course, abroad, that it makes sense to extend compulsory education from the outset, the results of the research will be similar to the fact that they are in favour of the establishment of two-year pre-school education throughout Finland. I hope that this direction will be taken in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-13-ps-128.u453	Mr President! When it's time to say thank you, you have to give it. Here is a good example of how the government has left the early stages of the school path and there from pre-school education through experimentation this time. Just as Mr Multala said, this could have gone further, but better than nothing. So now the two - year preschool experiment is starting and good research is being carried out. In his day, an American economist was asked, ‘ If he had a million dollars, where would he put it? ’ He said it was early years. Well, a million is, of course, a small amount of money for everything to be done in the early years, but here is a good example of how to build it on a school path. In fact, when the stone is bad, it is not worth building that house yet. That's why it's a good idea to invest in the rock. And here is a good example of what, for example, the OAJ, the Teachers' Trade Union, has expressly advocated that this initial phase should be put in order. Of course, they have expressed many other opinions, but at least on this point we agree with them. - Thank you.
