ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 36/2020 vp. The debate was suspended at the plenary session of 16 December 1920. Let us move on to the sectional vote. I would still like to suggest that the motions and the contributions are made by a parliamentary group at a time and that any corrections to the Minutes be taken only after the whole section has been voted on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u2	The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 December 2020. Let us proceed to the detailed examination of section 25.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u3	The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 December 2020. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of Section 26.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u4	The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 December 2020. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 27.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u5	The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 December 2020. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 30.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u6	Mr Östman's proposal 14 and Mr Heinonen's proposal 16 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against 16 proposals 14 and then against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u7	The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 December 2020. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of Section 32.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u8	Presentation of Section 31 on the Ministry of Transport and Communications. At this stage 1 hour 45 minutes will be reserved for the general discussion in the section and the debate will be opened by the section president, Mr Jokinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u9	Madam President! The administrative budget of the Ministry of Transport and Communications amounts to approximately EUR 3.5 billion. Of this, the budget for basic infrastructure management amounts to around EUR 1.4 billion, including the permanent increase of EUR 300 million proposed by the parliamentary working group. Nevertheless, the appropriation is reduced and the correction debt is expected to turn to a slight increase. This is due to the fact that the amount of paving remains less than 3,000 km of repair debt instead of 4,000 km. Today, EUR 50 million is missing from road paving. The Committee stresses the importance of measures to promote road safety and the functionality and daily accessibility of essential routes for business transport. The committee draws attention to the condition of the lower road network, which is weak in many respects and makes it difficult to ensure the safety and smooth operation of passenger transport and transport. The committee will add EUR 17350000 to basic infrastructure management and will allocate it according to the project list to smaller projects in various parts of the country promoting road safety and business conditions. EUR 473 million is spent on the basic infrastructure management budget and it is estimated that the infrastructure will remain stable or even improve slightly. The need to repair the infrastructure is rising sharply towards the end of the decade. The committee will also highlight the development needs of the train access control system, as the current system will come to the end of its life cycle at the end of the 2020s and decisions on a replacement system will need to be taken soon. A total of EUR 28.5 million is available to promote walking and cycling. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and parts of buildings. The private road network, some 350,000 miles [350,000 km] long, plays an important role for the entire transport system. A significant proportion of business transport uses private roads, which, for example, may entail high costs for the transport of the forest industry and the food industry. The committee welcomes the EUR 30 million increase in private road subsidies. Mr President! Six new development projects will be launched next year with a total cost estimate of EUR 205 million: three railway projects, two waterway projects and one road project. In addition, 29 constructions of fairway investment already started in the past will continue next year. The development projects have a strong rail focus. The Committee draws attention to the fact that freight transport mainly uses roads. It is therefore important that the next 12-year transport system plan clearly also takes into account the needs for the development of the road network. The Committee attaches great importance to the continuation of the national broadband support programme. The importance of communications has been further highlighted by the increase in teleworking, and there are still large regional differences in the quality of broadband access. The legislation on aid for broadband construction has been reformed and, at the beginning of next year, the support programme will also be able to improve broadband access to leisure homes. Mr President! The committee is very concerned about the financing of preventive road safety work. Next year, EUR 8.1 million will be allocated to road safety activities, which will be EUR 1 million less than in the current year. The operation is significant and will be reflected in the level and results of road safety work. The Committee stresses the importance of road safety work and notes that improvements in road safety have been highlighted in the Government Programme and that the EU has also set targets for improving road safety. The committee believes that the level of funding for road safety work should be guaranteed in a long-term way at 2020 level and its adequacy should be ensured in the draft budget for 22 years. The Committee considers it necessary to ensure the continuity and territorial coverage of road safety work in transport safety, the Finnish Transport Insurance Agency and the Åland Islands. The committee makes the following statement: ‘The Commission calls for the development of road safety activities to be examined and ensured that transport safety funding is ensured in a long-term sustainable way.’ Mr President! On behalf of the Section for Transport, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance's highly skilled staff, the experts who participated in the section's consultation and the Minister of Transport Harakka for the year's cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u10	On this point, the votes went a little faster than they were intended to, and I do not see Minister Harakka still here, but we will do so by starting the debate at this point, and then when the minister comes, we will give the minister the floor. In other words, those Members who wish to speak in this section will stand up and then, with a V button, a request to speak. — The debate is opened by Ms Kymäläinen, Chairman of the Committee on Transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u11	Madam President! Indeed, this budget for next year will make a significant contribution to the corridors and the fight against the correction debt, and for the second year in a row, EUR 618 million more will be proposed for these transport projects — and it will be remembered that the fourth amending budget had that historic investment of 1.3 billion in sustainable transport. These have a strong employment-enhancing effect. We have also made a decision this year to extend the closures of the Saimaa Canal, and this has been welcomed by our industry, the fact that freight can travel from the sea even to Joensuu and Kuopio, and the number of man-years between 1000 and 1200 more. Since it is also a matter of communication, I was pleased that the chairman of the committee, the chairman of the budget, raised...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u12	Thank you. — And, as we can see, the Minister has arrived. On this point, we shall give the Minister the floor for five minutes. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u13	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Parliament is showing excellent speed here, so that the minister too has a full job of staying on board. Thank you for your patience. Indeed, the draft budget for the management of the Ministry of Transport and Communications for the year 21 is strongly in line with the Government Programme. The appropriations for the administrative sector in the 21st budget amount to approximately EUR 3.5 billion, at the same level as in the actual budget for the current year. The biggest items in the budget are basic infrastructure management, EUR 1,365 billion, bus investments, EUR 700 million, and public passenger transport purchases and development, EUR 120 million. The appropriation for basic transport infrastructure management includes an increase of EUR 300 million in level as proposed by the previous parliamentary working group and in line with the Government Programme. It manages the correction debt, and in the longer term the aim is to reduce it gradually. According to the Government Programme, EUR 20 million of the increase will be spent on improving the winter maintenance of roads. Funding will be allocated in particular to areas where winter poses the greatest challenges. EUR 10 million will be allocated for the removal of dangerous level crossings. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes an increase of EUR 17.35 million in basic infrastructure management for transport safety, business conditions and also for projects promoting walking and cycling across the country. I thank the committee for this valuable addition. Mr President! Three railway projects, two waterway projects and one road project will be launched next year. A total of 35 bus projects are underway throughout Finland in 2021, with a lifetime mandate of approximately EUR 1.9 billion. The long-term approach to transport system planning is sought through a 12-year national transport system plan, which helps to guide the allocation of appropriations. The work will be done in the parliamentary working group by giving Parliament a report and adopting it in the spring of 2021, and already at this stage warm thanks to all those who participated in this parliamentary steering group for their excellent cooperation. This plan assesses Finland’s entire transport network and outlines its development between 2021 and 2032. Two limited companies will be established for the design of the Finnish-rail and the Turku-hour train: Suomi-rauta Oy and Turuntunnin Juna Oy. Documents relating to the establishment of companies have been signed. The share of the Finnish State in both companies is 51 per cent. The creation of these companies is an important step in our efforts to promote two major rail projects and to obtain full EU aid. Of course, the next move is a fast east rail link. These two project companies also include 26 cities and municipalities as well as Finavia. It proves that we are strongly committed to the development of Finland as a whole. Investing in rail transport is essential as we move towards sustainable mobility. Mr President! Transport emission reduction targets respond to Finland’s commitment to carbon neutrality. Emissions from transport will be reduced by half by 2030 as a step towards carbon-free transport. The measures will move towards more sustainable forms of mobility. At this stage, funding for rail investment, climate-based measures for public passenger transport and the promotion of walking and cycling will be provided to achieve this objective. Roads in better condition for basic bus maintenance also reduce emissions. In 2021, almost EUR 30 million will be allocated to the promotion of walking and cycling, and in its report the Committee on Finance has proposed to add a total of EUR 750000. I would also like to thank the committee for this addition. The budget for transport and communications services will rise by good EUR 20 million compared to the 2020 budget. Most of them are devoted to supporting air links between the provinces affected by the corona pandemic. Improving communications links between sparsely populated areas and rural areas The Broadband for All project will now be continued in the first phase with an additional €5 million. Index increases of EUR 11 million will be made for the transfer to the State Television and Radio Fund. Here's the top ones. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u14	We'll continue with the initial debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u15	Madam President! The budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications follows the government’s good line — the principle that roads, railways, light transport routes and also waterways should be improved throughout Finland with the amount available. And I particularly welcome the fact that there is a permanent increase of EUR 300 million which has been agreed jointly by Parliament. In particular, I am grateful that the private roads have also been very well taken into account in the report by the Committee on Finance and that next year 30 million will be available for those renovations. And I am also pleased that the broadband project is now and in the future being built all over Finland. I personally hope that, now that this new broadband law, which has been, will come and the draft regulation which has now been obtained from the fact that these opinions will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u16	Madam President! There's not a lot of time in a minute for the government to give you a little criticism. But I have to say from the situation in the Saimaa Canal that it is a great thing that it will be built, because it was quite crucial at this point yet. There was hardly any other choice. But we have to go back to the scrap payment. I would really like to see this whole thing fully considered, because it is absurd for us to get a scrapping premium by buying a car from abroad directly or by buying a bicycle from abroad directly, not to mention the fact that a bicycle may be purchased when used from a guy who causes a rather awkward situation to be in a number of grey areas, because who is watching them, whether or not they are bicycles, and what they are worth. I hope that in the future, at least
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u17	Madam President! There are a lot of good things in this proposal. There is no denying it. That is a good thing, and even road transport, which I am focusing on now, is a lot of good things in order to achieve less-emissions traffic, but also safer transport. However, I am concerned about road safety, and one aspect of this is safer cars. And that is what it wants to say, even now, in a way, it is intended that if the car tax were gradually abolished and, for example, the vehicle tax increased, we would be able to compensate for this depreciation, and we would be able to get safer cars for you. We know that security equipment is completely different. Similarly, the number of persons injured, who died, would decrease in the overall picture. This would be very important in human terms, but also in economic terms. In other words, I would like to see this gradual abolition of the car tax taken forward in the future, so that we can have safer transport for cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u18	Madam President! The claims that the government has forgotten about drivers are simply not true. [Interjection from the Basic Finns Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u19	Madam President! Good Minister! Thank you for reducing the repair debt on the transport network, and I hope that investment will also be made in that lower road network of the state. These broadband projects are also welcome. Broadbands will be one of the most important networks in our homes in the future. I would also like to thank you for removing the dangerous level crossings and I hope that the main line will be drawn up quickly on this traditional main line Helsinki-Riihimäki-Hämeenlinna-Tampere. Then this VR question, which came up in the debate this week. It was said that VR would be wrecking useful IC cars. I would like to ask you, Mr Harakka, whether this information is correct and whether it would not be worth selling to someone who would be able to use it at a later stage, or to transfer it to, for example, a vehicle company and thereby use it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u20	Mr President! It is great that transport policy has taken on such a big role in the Government Programme. It is important from the point of view of regional vitality and regional policy. At the same time, transport planning has moved on to long-term planning with the work of the transport system 12, and it is great that the working group yesterday has put together the papers and then they go to the opinion. It is important that we have a long-term plan and, at the same time, a financial plan. It is now in this budget that self is being warmed up by the big transport infrastructure package already decided in LTA 4, which is also very important from the point of view of employment in the regions, and by the permanent increase in the maintenance of basic transport routes. In 2019, 1700 kilometres of roads were paved in Finland, last year more than 5,000 kilometres, and probably next year – from the ely I have explained – we will be able to move a little to the lower road network for renovations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u21	Madam President! I will also begin my speech by saying ‘Dear Minister’,for Minister Harakkaon Minister Lintilänohellanousfastly as my favorite minister. Of course, we expect most of all from you in the Turku region too, but you will be aware of this. The government's proposal, especially in relation to basic bus maintenance. You have also taken very note of the fact that we have long distances in this country. But the quick three questions: What's going on with the cost support for the cabs? The previous model treated slightly differently due to the company's form, e.g. the business names were left out. Taxi entrepreneurs now need a solution very quickly, before the end of the year, because many think about the need for layoffs. The second question is: what is the subject of competitive tendering and support measures for heavy goods transport? After all, previous aid to domestic shipping companies was mainly directed at cruise ships, and [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u22	Madam President! I too will continue with this series of thanks and I would like to thank Minister Harakka and the government in particular for the fact that we actually received the 300 million permanent increase in this basic infrastructure management. Hopefully, then, in the years to come, it will also be able to reduce the debt to repair. Then, as a regionalist in Central Finland, I would also like to thank the government for being well aware of the needs of its region. Remembering that Kaipola will end, there will now be considerable improvements in the transport infrastructure to the railway and also then the Äänekoski-Vitasaari interval, which amounted to over 21 million. It will significantly improve the safety of its contribution. Then again, while I am a little concerned about the future of these provincial fields, could Minister Harakka still shed some light on the plans for them?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u23	Madam President! With the Minister of Transport, we have discussed the development of passenger rail connections in the provinces several times, and this time I speak on it again. The government has decided to invest EUR 20 million in climate-based funding for connections, but next year, to my surprise, it will still be EUR 32 million in the purchase of passenger train services. The Minister is well aware that my province, Satakunta, has also suffered from this corona situation in such a way that connections from Pori to Tampere have been reduced. In addition to that, my own region, the Rauma region, has long hoped that the connection between passenger train traffic and passenger train traffic would be re-launched in Kokemäki, and hence in Tampere again, because we are close to large regions such as Tampere and Helsinki, but we are still excluded from its growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u24	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank Minister Harakka for his good legal projects. Among other things, this repair kit of the taxi law is progressing, there may still be a slight incision in it, but I think it will be a good one. The final report of the fossil-free transport task force led by the Ministry of Transport and Communications will present up to 700000 electric cars to Finland by 2030. In my opinion, the objective is really drastic, given that there are currently only about 6500 electric cars and 34,000 downloadable hybrids in Finland. The Government uses the scrapping premium and procurement support to renew the fleet of cars and as an incentive for alternative operating forces. However, the measures are not enough, and we are still at square one with regard to the download infrastructure, for example. I'm just surprised that if I heat up my own house with electricity, I'm gonna destroy the climate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u25	Mr President! The Kirjalansalmi bridge between Kaarina and Parainen has reached the end of its life cycle. The bridge is in an alarmingly bad condition, and the bridge is now only allowed 50 and only one heavy vehicle at a time. The period of use of the bridge shall end no later than 25 C.E. There are 11,000 vehicles and 700 heavy vehicles on the road every day. Parasite produces a significant proportion of the raw materials used by the Finnish construction industry, including cement, concrete, mortar, lime and stone wool. About half of the country’s cement needs are manufactured in Parainen. If the bridge is decommissioned, there will be more than 15,000 people and 1,300 companies without any connection to the mainland. Most of the construction sites in Southern Finland would stop in two days because they do not receive the building material. Mr President! I would ask Minister Haraka how to build a new bridge as quickly as possible. Design work
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u26	Madam President! I too would like to join the Minister in thanking him, but I hope that this is not going to make it very proud that we still have this good cooperation, thank you for it. But I, too, would like to know more about regional flights, and above all that, if it is possible to operate five or seven days, what is the size of this machine when, at least in advance, the press releases that have come into existence were 29, and that is not very satisfying for my home town, Kajaani. Is it possible to go to larger units in the competition? So the accessibility of the regions is very important. Well, then, these passages. So the fairways are the blood vessels of the industry, and that has been very well invested in, and I thank the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u27	Madam President! I thank the chairman of the division and all the members of the division. We have achieved an excellent report. Indeed, road debt, repair debt are now being dismantled here, and it is great that it is directly in the budget. Private road funding will increase by 30 million, including for walking and cycling projects. I ask the same question as Mr Marttinen asked about this extension of the train pilots in the future, including the purchase and obligation agreement towards VR. What's the point of these? Then again from this traffic division record on road safety: When a strong entry was put there, how will this become true in the course of next year? I think it might be a good idea to hear a few words about it. It is all very well that these private road bases and also the movement of both food and human products, as well as products from the forest industry, can be mobilised, first on small roads and then on the sub-regions, and then on the main network.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u28	In this part of the debate, I will give one last speech, and then the Minister, and then we will continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u29	Värderade Talman! Mer ¤ 10 percent av värdet på Finlands varuexport korstammar från landskapen Österbotten och Mellersta Österbotten. Jag vill ox tacka ministern och regeringen för tryggandet av flygtrafikförbindelserna från Karleby och Jakobstad.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u30	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for these warm comments. I will now take a few points that I have time for and then continue this good, constructive debate. To begin with, I would like to express my thanks for the fact that, in your statement, you have made it so essential to guarantee the funding of this road safety work. As you well know, it has made great progress in Finland over the last decades, but in recent years we have not achieved the necessary improvements in road safety. We may not always have responded to this in the budgetary negotiations from the Ministry of Finance, but I believe that in the future this message will become even more evident. That is what we have in common here, and for that I would like to thank you very much. They asked about VR's equipment. The Ministry of Transport and Communications is a legislator for rail transport and we also buy this subsidised transport from the company, so in order to avoid any conflict of interest, the owner guidance of this company belongs to Minister Tuppurainen. There is indeed this rail supply, the purchase and the obligation traffic, which was raised here. The negotiations that have been held on this matter are in its final decision, and the Government's proposal and solution are expected this week. As you know, the whole of public transport has been put at risk by the interest rate, and this is why, by way of exception, we have granted EUR 200 million in amending budgets to ensure public transport connections in both urban and sparsely populated areas. VR has now also received interest subsidy of EUR 11 million on two occasions. And this means that our objective is also to keep rail transport, where the number of passengers has collapsed, connections are still in place, even though the supply is decreasing in the near future and not expanding. However, it is very important, as Mr Pirttilahti said there, to send a clear message to the Tampere region about the local transport pilots that they will continue and will continue to be a permanent part of this mobility menu, including in Tampere. Of the 700,000 electric cars, Mr Ronkainen quite rightly said that this is a very ambitious objective, but it would be a quarter of the passenger cars on the road. And now, in September, one quarter of the first registrations were electric cars and charging hybrids, so if this rate continues, then the goal is by no means impossible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u31	Mr President! In transport, we have two objectives, of which this Chamber is certainly completely unanimous: we should reduce the number of deaths in traffic, and the interim target for 2025 is less than 100 deaths a year, and the second is, of course, this reduction in emissions. It seems that many experts have fixed increases in fuel tax to deal with the reduction in emissions. It must be said that it is so socially unfair that it is not worth considering politically, because it is impossible. One wish would be for the Minister, when we are now making these bypass lanes for at least the ends of Finland. It's a pretty nervous three lanes again and three lanes again solution. Could the minister promote such a modern model that will be built even a little less, but when the machine is ground up, then we would make it four lanes and then the railing between them, because it is a much more reasonable and better solution for road safety?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u32	Madam President! The draft law relating to environmental and energy efficiency requirements for vehicle and transport services procurement has been sent to opinions. In accordance with the directive behind the proposal, the entry into force of the law will be no later than 2 August 21, that is, in just over seven months' time. In order to promote the low emission of private passenger cars, there is a scrapping premium law, as well as State aid for the purchase of gas cars in the transport of goods. There is no incentive for taxi entrepreneurs in distress with interest rates to switch to low-emission, although, according to the opinion, the requirements for public procurement are very high. I would like to ask Minister Haraka: will the government propose some form of aid for the purchase of low-emission taxis in order to get enough low-emission taxis to our country by the beginning of August? This is particularly important now that the interest rate has taken about half of the entrepreneur's turnover during the autumn and the situation was even worse in the spring. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u33	Mr President! The construction, maintenance and reduction of roads, tracks and fairways has been included in the Marin Government’s programme from the beginning. They have already been invested in before the interest rate period, but now in such challenging economic times, when the interest rate has caused economic contractions around the world and unemployment rates have risen, there is no reason to hold back these investments from the transport infrastructure. For the first time in a long time, the debt of correction has turned so that it does not increase. In addition, in the fourth amending budget of the year, the government launched a record large climate recovery package of EUR 1.3 billion. The investments in the tracks support climate-friendly mobility and support the needs of the business community. I would also like to thank Minister Harakka for the fact that the State has committed itself in the MAL agreement to the development of commuter trains in the Pirkanmaa region. The commuter train pilot, for example between Nokia and Tampere, will be continued, and the development of the station area will be invested. The same applies to the Tampere-Lempälä and Tampere-Orivesi. These are important transport investments in our region. Let's move them forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u34	Madam President! Of course, a very important message is the continuation of the commuter train pilots in the Tampere region. This is where I was wondering when there was so much praise from the opposition that is there something wrong with this budget when it is praised and commended.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u35	Madam President! This is exactly where I shouted to the representative that the East Railroad was completely missing out on the fact that we should not forget about Eastern Finland, but I thought I might come back to that later in my speech. In fact, I would like to comment on that increase in fuel taxes raised by the Coalition Party, because that increase — we do not, of course, want to see motoring anywhere in Finland stopped — corresponds to normal price developments. So it is not a greater increase than an increase in the basket. At the same time, income tax for the most low income earners has been calculated, which compensates for these index increases to the extent that more is left in the hands of the person. And of course it is important for the government and the SDP to take account of the people behind these longer connections,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u36	Madam President! The employment impact of transport projects is significant, and it is important and wonderful that many projects are currently under way. A million people invest in transport projects brings about 14 person-years, and this is important in this situation. It is also important to involve projects that leverage business-supporting activities and, in particular, investment in employment. An example of this is road 295 access investment in Kärkölä, and there are many others here. I would also like to mention the great concern raised by the Transport Section and the Committee on Finance about the financing of road safety work. We made a strong statement about it, and the Minister has promised to take it seriously and take it forward to the budgets of the next few years. But next year will be a very tough year, because when one million is taken out of the EUR 8 million budget
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u37	Irade the Talman! I would like to emphasise the seriousness of Mrs Bergqvist's message. We have one bridge in Southern Finland, whose condition depends on whether construction stops in Southern Finland. This should be taken seriously, and the change can take place overnight. The Coalition Party has said that the car tax should be abolished, i.e. in practice the incentive to choose a low-emission car at the time of purchase, instead of replacing the vehicle tax with an increase which will be paid, regardless of whether you drive or not. No expert has recommended this, or very few, at least, and I am critical of it. Taxation, on the other hand, matters. I myself have now driven a certain amount of hybrid cars and I have to say that it is a real greenwash: the batteries are small, need to be loaded all the time — if it is still a company car, there is not much incentive for charging. From that point of view, it is good that:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u38	Mr President! First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Adlercreutz's comment on the vote on the abolition of the car tax, that we are proposing it quite simply because there is a very old car fleet in Finland compared to many other European countries, and we believe that the abolition of the car tax in four years, for example, would be a good solution. We would certainly get those new cars, new low-emission cars for Finland's roads. But, Mr President, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Section for Transport of the Committee on Finance for the fact that the main road 51 has provided half a million lights between Inkoo and Karja. This is an intelligent road project, and this is now a good start, which means that in the future we will be able to invest more in safety. But, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister a question. The Minister is well aware that we in Espoo and in the meeting are particularly opposed to tolls, and one
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u39	I would point out that it would be desirable to stick to that one-minute limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u40	Mr President! I would like to thank you for your considerable investment in sustainable mobility, cycling and rails. Investments in cycling are investments not only in the climate but also in human health. Safe walking and cycling routes play an important role in the safe passage of children to school on their own. We also have several state-owned road blocks in Espoo, where it is the residents who have been very keen to ask for these light traffic routes for this reason. I therefore hope that these things will now be brought forward rapidly across Finland. Second, I'm raising commuter traffic. First of all, thank you for supporting public transport in this difficult time of interest and beyond. It is good to hear that the commuter train pilot in the Tampere region will continue, but there is a similar need for other urban areas as well, and I would have asked the Minister about the prospects for the future as to what measures are planned to increase commuter traffic across Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u41	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank all the parties involved who have contributed to the fact that the threat over the provincial airports is waning and that through the purchase service we are getting air traffic through just current air connections and not just triangular flights. At the same time, I would like to thank all parties for the fine decision which was heard today: Joensuu Airport will be paved next summer, which is also a good message for the province. But I have concerns about high-speed broadband connections and, above all, about the role that municipalities are putting in place to pay for connections. There was now a draft regulation in the consultation process, and this draft provides that up to one third of the project costs would be borne by the municipalities. I would therefore like to ask whether the regulation is changing after the consultation, and when it has been thought that the contributions from the municipalities have traditionally been negotiated and there have been no fixed amounts, I would have liked to have heard more about this from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u42	Mr President! I would have asked Minister Haraka, I have sometimes spoken to you about Ring 5. So there's 25 main road, Hanko- Hyvinkää-Mäntsälä-Porvoo road, there's a lot of heavy traffic, and there's a lot of motorists who go to bedside. There's been a lot of talk here about good train connections. They are important, but in Uusimaa, for example, a lot of people live along Ring 5, and if they go by car to the train station, then there are very dangerous situations. I was looking at a newsletter from the municipalities of Uusimaa, and it has been found by municipal managers that without basic improvement this is the worst main road in Southern Finland, and did you know that Kehä 5tonen currently has more accidents than Kehä 3 in relation to traffic volumes? I don't blame you. I'm asking, when is the Ring 5 expected a basic cure, and with what timetable?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u43	Madam President! A big hand for the government, of course, to follow its own programme and then move forward on the transport side. The interest has now shown that we also need to make a fibre leap in this sector. The decisions that have been taken have not really responded to what we need. The diversity of work, the viability of the countryside and entrepreneurship in general: we now need very large stakes to make fibre available because mobile networks also need it. We are not only able to solve this by mobile means. We need that load in the future so that people can work at home, work at the villa, while at the same time keeping the countryside and the rural economy up, so we need that fibre loop now. Let's hope so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u44	Mr President! In the coming budget year, there is going to be exceptional investment opportunities through this recovery package, and as additional national budgets are certainly being prepared, including infra-investment, I would like to ask the Minister now what ideas are being put forward with regard to the additional spring budgets, either for this EU package or then for national recovery, including, for example, for these rail investments in the highest efficiency, and then for this very stimulus effect, for these connection and similar urgent transport arrangements supporting the start-up of industry or businesses, which could then help to mobilise large private investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u45	Madam President! An interesting project for next year is, of course, the launch and implementation of this road map for fossil-free transport, and I would like to thank Minister Harakka for taking it forward as an expert. I myself think that the fossil-free transport system should encourage the use of low-emission vehicles and fuels, and I think, like Mr Adlercreutz, that full electric cars are, in particular, what we need to support and tax incentives for use. The system must also encourage the reduction of motoring where other alternatives exist and must not hit the low-income ones, but must compensate the low-income ones. If new tax revenues are collected, they should be channelled into sustainable modes of transport, i.e. the development of public transport, cycling and walking, and many of these issues
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u46	Mr President! The Agency will start drawing up an implementation programme for the 12-year transport system plan after the turn of the year. The regions are concerned about the interaction of the process of drafting, i.e. how well the regions will be consulted. South Ostrobothnia, for example, has important investments that are not funded. One of these is the long-awaited intersection of highways 3 and 19, to which the City of Kurika is committed to making its contribution. The main railway line, on the other hand, has significant lack of transmission capacity between the Seinäjoki-Tampere, which is the most active one-track section of the Finnish transport network. The development of the transfer capacity of the railway section should definitely be mentioned in the National Plan for Transport 12. I would like to ask the Minister: how comprehensive are the regions to be consulted when drawing up this implementation programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u47	Madam President! There has been some good communication with Minister Harakka in the corridor debate and so on, and I often feel that my voice should be heard in some way, but I would like some specificity. For example, in this scrapping fee business, it did pass. We have highway 15, Kouvola-Kotka, which is indeed one of the most dangerous highways. Although I live at the other end of it, I do not talk so much about it, but I know how challenging it is, because there is the largest public port there, and besides having a cutting hospital there in the North Kymen Valley but in the South Kymen Valley we have our cutting hospital, we have the brutal ambulance traffic along the road. I would like this to be perhaps the subject of that good cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u48	Mr President! Indeed, the present government is continuing the line initiated by the Sipilä Government, where, after many dry years, more and more resources are being spent on the basic maintenance of our nation's most important national wealth, i.e. road and rail infrastructure, and it is visible there in people's daily lives, it is visible in the everyday lives of the people of the provinces as we move along better routes. The work is at a good start, and the Committee on Finance also added a number of important items to its own province, of which Mr Kautto has already mentioned here, many good small items — thanks for them. Then, on another point, the question to the Minister: This so-called transport infrastructure, its competitive tendering, in practice gas distribution and electricity charging infrastructure, is increasingly in demand than it is available for in the tendering process. There is enthusiasm for these gas investments across the country. Should more money be earmarked for this next year or perhaps a new system be developed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u49	Madam President! According to the budget, fairway charges will remain halved at the same time as maritime crew support will continue. In general, both measures are very important for shipping, both for Finnish maritime policy and for the preservation of ships under the Finnish flag. This will ensure important jobs and security of supply in Finland. Because of the Korona pandemic, shipping is going through the worst crisis of today. The Government's measures to increase crew support by EUR 7 million and the aid to the acquisition of Traficom's traffic have been very relevant. Thank you to the government and Minister Haraka for this. Now there is light on the horizon, because hopefully the vaccine can normalize traffic. In reality, unfortunately, we can be prepared to wait a little longer for normal traffic to start until enough people have received the vaccine. Until then.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u50	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Löfström actually referred to an important point when referring to the competitiveness of shipping. We are on our way back to Finland, and certainly together we want to find ways to support industrial competitiveness in the difficult economic conditions next year, which would be particularly environmentally neutral, and the fairway fee Löfström referred to here would be one of those. Could we still consider abolishing, instead of halving, the fairway charge for maritime transport altogether? In Sweden it will not be collected, although the ice conditions at our latitude are of course the same, and this would be a significant factor, for example when UPM is considering a possible new large biorefinery investment in Kotka. Another question for the future in this road map of fossil-free traffic may be hydrogen fuels with too little weight. Would you be able to contribute to the rapid adoption of Finnish fuels under the distribution obligation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u51	Madam President! There was talk of important projects here, and it was necessary to raise the issue of the E18, which received the planning money — thanks for that. This goes from Northern Ireland to St.Petersburg, and this is a four-way stretch of about 15 kilometres from Lieto and Kaarina, which is practically located in Naantali. But I would remind the Minister of these questions, namely the cost support for taxis — when? — and the ferry traffic used by heavy goods transport, the related subsidies and competitive tendering, when will this take place? And then, thirdly, I would take this time-based road toll solution for heavy traffic, or vignette. This has been a long discussion within the government, even in the previous period, so that when may this happen? When Mr Ovaska wanted a little review here, I'll take this track. In other words, when there are practically 2 to 3 tracks going from here to Tampere, and when there is one track going to Turku, and yet more should be brought to Tampere,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u52	Let us take two more speeches to this point and then three minutes to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u53	Madam President! This draft budget and the report by the committee are quite pleasant to read, they are a very balanced and a good whole. However, the chairman of the committee said that some 50 million are still on the back of the correction appropriations and that a solution should be found to ensure that the correction debt does not increase. There is an enormous amount of investment here, over 40 million in total, in cycling and cycling, and in refurbishment and reconstruction and the construction of networks, and I wonder whether this balance is necessarily right now, with the repair debt of 50 million, and then the emphasis, almost equal, is on the development of cycling. I am not against cycling, but I am asking this balance here, what is the idea? Then I congratulate you: Ainasjärvintie received an appropriation — a really important road in Varsinais-Suomi,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u54	Mr President! It is great that the budget for private roads has been greatly increased. Finland is still standing on wooden feet, and from the point of view of wood management, private roads are important, for the same food transport. Self-motivated nature tourism has also increased significantly along private roads, and this increase in private road subsidies makes this nature tourism much easier, even for those who do it. Then, with regard to this basic infrastructure management — although there has now been considerable praise for these good projects which have come across Finland — it is essential that this maintenance and maintenance also work in such a way that these roads, where they are now located, remain in good condition for a long time. There have been worrying examples in public that road maintenance has collapsed and the construction system has gone a little bad and is being stretched a long way before we go down that road, for example, for plowing or salting and repairing. I would like to ask the Minister: have we considered these new ways of improving this maintenance system so that the road network is also maintained in good condition?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u55	At this point, Minister Harakka, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Let us see what we have to deal with in this speech — at least aviation and maritime transport, to the extent that, just yesterday, Traficom has imposed a service obligation on air transport in these five provincial cities, which means that they can then be competitive with the support of society. The aim is to establish a cost-effective and sustainable connection to these fields, as our working group has acted quickly last autumn, and we are not dependent on Finnair. And like the representative The valley has stated on some occasions, and electric flying can be a very significant option in the coming years, and we can then have more fields in use than what is part of Finavia's current network. Maritime transport has been supported by a number of means. A representative of Parliament has just been approved The proposal for a retroactive extension of crew support mentioned by Mr Löfström. Shipowners have been able to apply for business support and state guarantees, and as you know, the Emergency Supply Agency and Traficom have supported security of supply critical transport with several tens of millions of euros and, if necessary, will continue next year. It is targeted at passenger ships, even in the sense that the bulk of the cargo comes through passenger ships and that such support is less suitable for cargo ships, as they operate mainly through charter agreements. I put Mr. Sea's concern behind his ear about this heel road 25. Of course, we hope that the electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää track, which has been expected for a very long time, will now bring a competitive alternative to freight transport in the near future. As far as the Kirjalansalmi bridge is concerned, its poor condition has been known for a long time, and these restrictions are, of course, very unfortunate, but the Fairway Office estimates that it is unlikely that the use of the bridge will be possible before the construction of a new one. Well about this perhaps smaller thing, as such important, to this most important thing: Mr Koskinen asked about these subsidies for the EU recovery instrument. We are still in the process of preparing that. That programme will be specified here, but what I myself have raised in this Chamber is the extension of the high-speed telecommunications programme from the current 5 million. A very important project is the so-called Digirata, i.e. having all the tracks digitally controlled. This would significantly increase capacity and would have a significant climate impact. And here I have also said that the processing of carbon dioxide into electric fuel, as Mr Mykkänen put it, in the first instance as traditional fuel, then hydrogen, would be absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u57	Madam President! These rail solutions are, of course, major issues in terms of transport policy; they have already been raised in several speeches today. I would like to highlight one direction of air and the development of one railway solution, that is, this beach track, which would go east. I would like to ask the Minister where its development phase on the Ministry side is in relation to the fact that with this rail solution we would be able to bring the new working area into the network and, in addition, the largest export port in Finland, which is also of great importance to freight transport. On a longer run, of course, there will be the most direct train connection in due course when we think about these possible high-speed rail links on that side of Russia, but this angle has clearly remained in the reverse position to some extent when we are talking about rail transport. I wanted to ask the Minister what stage this project is at.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u58	Madam President! Minister Harakka, you have told us that there will be a service obligation for five provinces. One hundred municipalities is an important export region for Finland, and the airport connection to Helsinki is important. The City of Pori has been subject to a public service obligation until the end of 22 years, and the regional air transport has been covered by a purchase service contract for which Pori will pay more than EUR 11 million. So I ask you, Minister: how do you intend to take into account the flight connections of Satakunta from the Pori airport in the forthcoming regional flight package?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u59	Madam President! Thank you to Minister Haraka for his work. I would like to thank Mrs Myllykoski very much, for using the term “photofibre ” — that is to say, your East Term — and our need, the Minister of State. 5G connections cannot deal with this rural problem. If we want a level playing field in Finland, that health services, trade, banks, municipal offices and so on operate in this country, the only solution is optical fibre, that is the only way we have, unfortunately. The technique in 5G works perfectly well here in Helsinki, and here it is very good. Another thing that is important, which I would like you, Minister, to have done a lot of good things, is that you finally and finally need your support when the level of maintenance of the lower road network in Ilomants and in the municipalities of the eastern border is completely unacceptable. Ilomantsian trucker called me yesterday morning, said he put the men on lay-off when local road maintenance couldn't reach there. There are roads that are unwieldy and hugely slippery, and truck drivers had said that it was not close to killing on that road. Well, it had gone to the road manager to tell him to sweat.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u60	Madam President! Finland is a long and fine country, and in this respect two aspects: heavy traffic and air transport. I'll start with air traffic. In a long country, these internal connections are absolutely essential for people to travel, for our livelihoods, for vitality and for competitiveness. I hope that the Minister will take all the speeches that have been made on behalf of our major regional and regional air links very seriously. Of course, it is important for the government to try to act here, but I would feel that even more robust action is now needed. As far as heavy traffic is concerned, the conditions in the country are very different and, admittedly, there is no understanding of why these heavy-duty winter tyre regulations cannot be made to guarantee not only safe transport but also, to a certain extent, to bring Finnish transport companies into a more reasonable competitive environment for foreigners, driving through our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u61	Madam President! I would ask the Minister once again, since this corona has had a considerable impact on our mobility and telework has increased and there has been talk of digital leaps and this kind of thing, has the Ministry thought or the government considered different scenarios as to how possible mobility will be reduced when more telework is done? After all, with such a reflection and a plan, we will be able to assess what kind of procurement or development targets and investments we can make. First of all, not investing in the wrong way is a very important issue. I would mainly like to ask if there is any planning on this issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u62	Madam President! The importance of transport infrastructure for an export-driven economy such as Finland cannot be emphasised enough. And now, in the midst of the crisis, and rightly so, that economic policy has been revitalising, one has to wonder a little about the government's line in which, as I understand it, the budget for basic bus maintenance will fall from the 2020 budget itself. Is this really true?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u65	Madam President! I would like to thank the Minister for his positive attitude towards the eastern track of 2 million Finns. Although I'm not grateful to you for forgetting Highway 15. As it is today, it makes it difficult for nearly 100,000 people to get to the hospital safely. In this Chamber I have talked a lot about the role of Finnish entrepreneurship and industry in Finland's well-being. In this context, I anticipated the need for Finnish export companies last spring and took a legislative initiative to abolish the fairway fee. Now this emergency has become a reality, and I do not think that the government has done enough about it. The abolition of the fairway levy would have brought the Finnish export industry into line with other countries in the Baltic Sea. Its price, EUR 50 million, is, in my opinion, a small price for the well-being that the Finnish export industry brings to Finns. Minister, could you reconsider this matter? However, I believe that we all understand in this Chamber that export-driven Finland will not rise
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u66	If my accounts are correct, everyone has had at least one speaker. I would suggest that two more speeches be made, and then to the Minister the end of the five minutes for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u67	Madam President! First of all, with regard to the abolition of fairway charges, there is a slight contradiction between the assembly's support for shipping, for at the same time, in your path of hope, you have pointed out that there would be a reduction in crew support for entertainment shipping and thus in the state contribution of the Maritime Pension Fund. This would have a dangerous effect, among other things, on the way out of our ships, which are important for security of supply, because we know that entertainment shipping is directly linked to our cargo. And then, when you talk about debt or tax tightening, if this fairway charge were completely abolished, so that at the moment, among other things, their incomes are sustained by icebreaking, the removal of these incomes would lead to direct indebtedness or then tax tightening.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u68	Let us take Mr Vestman's speech and then the section president, Mr Jokinen, and then Minister Harakka, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to raise the issue. Two important things for Uusimaa. First of all, the very dangerous Porvoo Passage, the Lahti Passage, the Ring 1 access area, where the tin is pounding in the distance and even fatal accidents often occur. That interface is a direct design flower, a complete failure, where traffic often stops like a wall and creates very bad loops all the way to the Lahti Passage. Is there a plan to fix this access area? I know there's been some planning going on. However, it would require an appropriation of EUR 20 million. The second question relates to the Kerava-Nikkilä track, which I know the Minister knows. It would be sensible to take this project forward, that is to say, to open up the track to passenger train traffic. This would help to reduce emissions in Uusimaa in an even significant way in regional terms. The municipality of Sipoo has requested a design permit for this track and would be ready for it
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u70	Mr President! Railways and roads are essential in everyday traffic, so that society works, but increasingly and more and more when services are connected to the network and as distance works increase, digital connections become more important. The committee there took a stand on this broadband support programme and that is really, really important. And Mrs Myllykoski gave a very distinguished speech here on the development of broadband connections, to which the Minister also responded positively. It is hoped that the development of broadband connections will take place throughout the country and will cover access to services and teleworking. The committee also took a position on the resources of the Cybersecurity Centre, where additional funding is being proposed. The committee stressed the need to ensure the resources of the Cybersecurity Centre in the future, as the threats to information are constantly changing and constantly need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u71	And now Minister Harakka, five minutes, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u72	Mr President! Thank you once again for this excellent, wide-ranging debate. If I can finally answer questions about taxis, heavy traffic, and why not also about urban long-distance transport, public transport: these have all, as I have said many times in this Chamber, been the great sufferers of the corona era. I have constantly been very concerned about how these companies will continue to function. As far as taxis are concerned, it is still possible to participate in the next allocation of cost support, which I believe will start before Christmas. In addition, of course, the support of sole entrepreneurs is something that should continue. As far as these clean driving forces are concerned, we are about to discuss the directive on clean vehicles here in Parliament, and that is where the challenge lies in encouraging municipalities to acquire both vehicles and then transport services, which then meet both these European and our Finnish objectives of reducing transport emissions. In this regard, when these services are purchased, in this way the municipalities themselves, and they must, can favor clean decisions. This same question then relates to the availability which, in this reform of the taxi legislation, has perhaps been the most sensitive issue I have gone through with several representatives. Here again, the ball is in the municipality in such a way that when transport services, such as transport for disabled people, school transport, then it is possible to include on-call duty, in turn, which may increase the price of its purchase, but also to ensure what the questioner here meant that the position of its local taxi operator in this competition could be safeguarded. This is where the municipalities should be far-sighted. They have the opportunity to help the taxi sector particularly well. As far as heavy transport is concerned, we have just received the decision of the Council of Ministers on this Eurovignette issue, which has been running for many years and which will then have the possibility for Member States to impose tolls and other provisions on intra-EU transport, but which are also a matter for national decision. But to the extent that transport comes from third countries, such a procedure is much more difficult. As far as fairway charges are concerned, the debate I have had with industry has been such that they have wanted a view over the next few years of what will be the level of fairway charges, because, as Mr Kymäläinen said there, fairway charges, for example, take care of icebreaking and many other infrastructure costs. At the normal level, it would be EUR 100 million a year, and I would now say that no one who is now concerned about the good use of taxpayers' money would be prepared to throw this 100 million right away into the well. And that halve is what industry and the forest industry, for example, want most. If we were to remove it altogether, then it is worth noting that quite a lot of this relief would go to those who sail under the flag of the Bahamas, Liberia and other flags of convenience, so that I am not quite sure in this Chamber we want to transfer Finnish taxpayers' money to the tropics, but everything is allowed to be presented. [PetriHuru’s interlude] A very important point was made by Mr Joki at the very end of this topical issue of cybersecurity, which, of course, has become even more important in relation to the data breach in the responsible office. We have just the day before yesterday a first interim report from the Cybersecurity Task Force, which states that in this cybersecurity triangle these points are clear regulation, seamless cooperation between the authorities and sufficient resources. This is a step in the right direction, but cybersecurity still requires resources. That is something that we all need to understand now, if we want to take care of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u73	Thank you to the Minister and now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u74	Mr President! The 2021 budget proposes a budget of EUR 3.5 billion for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The level of funding remains roughly the same as in last year's proposal. However, it is important to note that this proposal is nearly 620 million more than in the 2019 budget. This also includes an annual increase of 300 million under the Government Programme to reduce the correction debt and, in spring 2020, a major climate recovery of more than EUR 1.3 billion agreed in the fourth amending budget, for public transport, for fairway projects and for urban development through the MAL agreements. In the fourth amending budget for 2020, the Government has already proposed an increase of EUR 18 million in measures to promote walking and cycling, and in addition, an increase of EUR 25 million will now be proposed in the 2021 budget to promote walking and cycling. New development projects will be launched with this budget in a moderate manner. In this respect, the government acted in a forward-looking manner and this year, in June, the fourth amending budget mobilised a significant amount of new transport projects totalling over EUR 1.3 billion. It is therefore important to implement and finance these projects which have already been decided upon. With regard to this budget, I welcome the fact that the new projects presented in the budget currently under discussion are divided into different modes of transport, water, rail and road. Mr President! Extending the closures of the Saimaa Canal is one of the most important projects to support and promote the vitality, industry and tourism of Eastern Finland. If the locks were not extended, the traffic on the channel would be cut to a large extent by the end of the current fleet. The extension of the locks will allow a modern, efficient and larger fleet to operate on the channel, which will improve the cost-effectiveness of freight and reduce individual freight emissions. The project also has a significant employment impact — estimated at between 1000 and 1200 man-years. The project will implement the Government Programme’s records on the development of inland waterway transport as part of the efforts to reduce emissions from road transport. Funding for the first phase of upgrading the Tampere-Jyväskylä track is important. The project aims to improve the conditions for business and employment, taking into account the closure of the Kaipola plant in Jämsä UPM. The amount to be invested in the central band of the Vitasaari crossing band of Act 4 is necessary, since without this road plan of the project it would expire in 2021 and the plan could no longer be extended. The aim of the project is to improve road safety and traffic flow. Improvement of the Luumäki-Imatra-Russian border line for the project will be reviewed by EUR 30 million from EUR 165 million to EUR 195 million. The cost estimate of the project has been revised as the project progresses and the railway plan is completed. A review of the mandate is necessary for the initial implementation of the project. I cannot go through everything in this speech, but two important points have to be raised at this end. It is great that the design of the Finnish-track and the Turku-hour train can begin now that the documents relating to the creation of the project company have been signed. Thank you, Minister Haraka, for coming to Eastern Finland with regard to rail transport, to present to the Committee on Economic Policy the guidelines for the flight path — Porvoo-Kouvola. I would like to say kindly to Mr Kiljunen that this project affects — this line — 16 cities, seven provinces, 1.9 million Finns,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u77	Mr President! The Fossil-free Transport Group recommends that incentives be used for zero-emission technologies and fuels, i.e. carrots. This includes, for example, scrapping premiums and procurement subsidies, which have already been tried on by the state's artificial ranges. However, they are small-scale and serve the part of the population that would otherwise be able to acquire a new propulsion alternative vehicle. The rest are the so-called stick, which is by far the largest share of the proposed measures. Fossil fuel pricing — i.e. emissions trading in road transport and an increase in fuel tax — will chastise motorists across Finland, especially in sparsely populated areas. The introduction of congestion charges penalises those working and living in cities. When I mentioned the scale at the beginning of my speech, we will include it in this debate. In Finland, 17 per cent of carbon dioxide emissions come from road transport and passenger cars account for approximately 9 per cent of all emissions. In view of the fact that emissions from the whole of Finland amount to around EUR 1 million of global emissions, one cannot help but wonder about the criteria on which the owners of 3.5 million vehicles will be treated in the future — not to mention the fact that road transport is already raising more than EUR 8 billion at the same time as the road network is falling apart and the debt of repair is increasing. Good government, forget the ambitious climate targets. The EU will only pursue carbon neutrality by 2050. Prefer to invest in the competitiveness of domestic companies by maintaining the infrastructure and reasonable logistics costs. Give up the increase in fuel prices. In sparsely populated areas and in northern Finland, it is necessary to travel by car. After the interest, I would rather see Finland rebuild than tighten the belt. Mr President! The Government's ambition is to make Finland fossil-free by 2035, which means huge changes in traffic. The fossil-free transport task force, led by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, examined the halving of greenhouse gas emissions from transport by 2030 and to zero by 2045. The recommendations of the working group provide a scale of the methods to be used to achieve this objective. According to the working group, the consumption of fossil fuels should also be halved in order to halve emissions. Alternative propulsion sources, such as biogas, synthetic fuel and electric vehicles, are proposed. According to the working group, Finland's target for electric cars should be raised to 700,000 electric cars. In the past, Sitra has also offered the same 700,000 electric cars as a climate medicine. Currently, there are 6500 full electric cars in Finland and 34,000 rechargeable hybrids. The goal of 700,000 electric cars would mean that every year in the next 10 years 70,000 electric cars would be sold in Finland, twice as much as there is today. At the current price level for electric cars, I do not consider that figure realistic. And even if the car industry could produce that many electric cars, Finland is not ready for it yet. There's no download infrastructure and no distribution network. The same applies to biofuels with production volumes so low that they cover only one fifth of fuel production. Gasoline and diesel are still needed for a long time, even in terms of security of supply. In addition, there are environmental and moral concerns about the manufacture of electric cars. For the global climate, it does not matter whether pollution occurs in Finnish transport or in a Chinese electric car factory.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u78	Mr President! The past year has been special in many ways and has made many people appreciate health, safety and their own space more and more. [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : Vice-President! If you want, you can take the mask off while you're talking in that toilet. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u81	Mr President! I shall begin to dismantle this now that I have heard from the Minister about the service structure of municipalities with disabilities and the associated possibilities, that there will then be better access. However, I would like the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health now to shake hands with the idea that together we will solve this problem of Kela rides. I believe that the instruments exist. This current model, which has slumped during the last parliamentary term and which, fortunately, has now been corrected by Minister Harakka, i.e. the taxi law, is linked in particular to the fact that, in my opinion, in relation to social welfare and Kela rides, this creates such a threat to taxi traffic as a whole, that some sort of correction must now be made, and I hope that the Ministry of Transport will be a little bit on the right track with regard to these Kela rides. The final news was that the company that won the regional competition does not need the services of a hundred Nordic taxi companies in order to realise the advantage of the competition. There are some unfortunate features: each entrepreneur is forced to lower his or her own prices for this regional tender, so that nothing really falls under the line. And it would be good if this whole thing were to be dismantled so that we could make this taxi traffic work in this country. That is not the tragedy of Minister Harakka, but I would like to see the existence of taxi services in agreement with the Kela rides. I'm going back to that fiber fiber and the fact that we need it. And when we have a state-owned company in this country, I would like us to make it possible for this 5G network to be created and we would be active if we had this state-owned company to build that fibre, because there is a chance of earning it, when these commercial companies that provide 5G services are, in a way, linked to the fact that this light fibre, which is perhaps built a little further away, we would have our own national monopoly. They should be created more, because this access to the information society is one, I would say, a monopoly which is absolutely essential. Of course they're competing, but I want more of it... This corona has shown that telework is a future and a necessity, and it requires more than just mobile connections. We need very heavy telecommunications fibre, which will then enable mobile stations to be created better. Last but not least: there has been a lot of talk about rail transport, and I hope that the Finnish track will be in category one, but now this 12-year plan will give us a chance to get even more out of this drum policy. And the Minister has been pleased to see that everything should be economically and mathematically sensible in order to put an end to this policy. In that sense, I hope that the various options, such as Pori-Parikkala, from the traffic in the whole of cross-border Finland, will liberalise traffic on the Finnish track. When freight traffic could be steered transversely, then even these major investments would not necessarily be so great. We could start with Pori-Haapamäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u82	Mr President! I am particularly pleased that the Marin Government has so strongly put transport policy on the agenda of the government. The importance of transport policy and accessibility for regional policy and Finland's success is extremely important. Accessibility of the regions is the lifeblood of business and tourism for the competitiveness of enterprises. What is important is that the west, the east and the north can be reached at about the same distances, taking into account the length of the journey. This is the weakest situation in Eastern Finland, and work must be done on it. Transport policy has also taken a major step forward with the 12-year work on the transport system plan, which was approved yesterday by the working group, and which will be sent to the regions in the middle of January for an opinion. The aim of transport system work is to tackle our correction debt gradually, to examine transport projects in the longer term and to manage funding in a more accessible and sustainable and efficient way, including through the transport network. A budget of 3.5 billion is proposed for the administrative sector. The level is over 600 million higher than the funding of the previous government on a seasonal basis. I am particularly pleased about the permanent increase in funding for basic bus maintenance, and this has been reflected in the asphalting of the road network in the provinces. As I said earlier, last summer more than 5,000 kilometers were paved, mainly the main routes and roads and the main net. This budget also finances the decisions of the ITA 4 on the EUR 1.3 billion infrastructure package, and this will also have a particularly high impact on employment in this context of the economic cycle. From the perspective of Eastern Finland, lifting the water surface of the Saimaa Canal and extending the closures is a project that has been waiting decades for water transport and freight traffic in Eastern Finland. The industry is strongly committed to the use and development of water transport in freight transport, and thanks to Minister Haraka: he was quite reasonable in attracting them to this project. The alignment of the eastern track and the railway projects on the South Karelia side are good, but it should be noted that Joensuu is still about an hour 20 minutes slower than Seinäjoki at the same distance. The situation is not good, while at the same time air transport is at its minimum for understandable reasons. The positive thing is that regional air transport is about to be competitive in Joensuu, Jyväskylä, Kokkola, Kajaani and Kemi, and I believe that there will be operators who will then be able to manage the connections to Helsinki on a market-based basis. I would have liked an option already at this stage for 22 years, but thank the Minister and the Air Transport Group for their prompt action and funding for 21 years in terms of competitive tendering. As an example of 127,000 flights per year in Joensuu, about half of which are connecting flights to the world for trade. That is why it is important, from the point of view of regional vitality, to secure air transport in the future. After all, the transport system plan and the Government Programme have very good records on the accessibility of 3 hours. There are many more in the budget: additional private funding, promotion of pedestrians and cycling, and broadband projects, as has been said. Personally, I would like us to be able to take forward the planning of the network and our transport projects, for example with regard to the Kouvola-Joensuu renovation, when the recovery package comes in the spring. Finally, these praiseworthy MAL agreements. Of course, I support them and I hope that the agreements between Kuopio, Jyväskylä and Lahti on the second wave will also proceed to implementation. I would very much have liked other regional centres, including some 100,000 urban areas, to have been involved in the MAL procedure. It is a little frightening whether there will now be a two-story population in terms of land use and transport planning and development, but it is hoped that the other regional centres will come later into the MAL procedure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u83	Mr President! To begin with, a few words about road safety work and its financing. The committee has been rather concerned about this particular aspect of the financing of road safety. EUR 8.1 million will be allocated to it next year, but it will be EUR 1 million less than the current year, and in previous years the finance ministers have managed this million to go there. In other words, thanks have been due to the Minister for Finance Orpo and the Minister for Finance Lintilä in previous budgets, but unfortunately this time this one-million deficit was not met. Mr President! I would like to raise the line of the Assembly in the debate that we consider it important to reduce emissions that the Finnish car fleet should be reformed. We believe that the gradual abolition of the car tax in four years, for example, would be a good option for this, and in that way we would actually get new cars, not just those imported cars that are often more polluting, and at the same time taxes from this sale directly to Finland. Unfortunately, however, this policy, which has been pursued by the government, has not now acted in this direction, but is seeking other means, and one of them seems to be these tolls or congestion charges, as it is now being called. I have been on quite a number of occasions hearing the related policies, including the City Board of Espoo, and with some concern that there is indeed a new employment tax planned for Uusimaa. It could cost up to EUR 1500 per year, and it is worrying that it would reduce labour mobility, increase incentives to work and reduce employment. In Gothenburg, for example, where tolls have been introduced, they have caused net harm to residents. It must also be borne in mind that tolls do not at the end of the day even reduce emissions in the way planned. In fact, experts have suggested that their share of the 2030 emissions target would be less than 4%, which means that they would not even be a very effective means of doing so. Mr President! I will take advantage of the fact that Mr Harakka is here, and the question is that who will benefit financially from this toll. Would it be a tax-related payment to the Ministry of Finance, or would it be HSL, or the traffic in the Helsinki region here in the capital region that would receive its money, or would it be the municipalities that would receive an increase in their own budget? Here, Mr President, a number of questions remain to be resolved before this issue is resolved. And, Mr President, I would also like to emphasise that, if progress is made on this matter, it is extremely important that there is also interaction with the municipalities in the capital region about what size it is and how it will be implemented. But, as has been said, we are opposed to this at the meeting — not only because it reduces employment, but also because we do not feel that it is an effective means of reducing emissions. Mr President! In this connection, I would like to thank again for this decision taken by the Transport Section of the Committee on Finance, in which the road 51 is lighting up between Inkoo and Karjaa EUR 0.5 million, and it will also help to implement the intelligent road project which is planned for the main road. It would have been better if this funding had been started between Siuntio and Inkoo, but I understand that this has also been a political decision in the sense that we will then get something through at least this intelligent road project and possibly next year we will get other sections of the road to increase that funding and this project to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u84	Mr President! We are on a steady road towards fossil-free traffic. As part of the green recovery, investments in public transport, rail transport and promotion of walking and cycling amount to almost EUR 1 billion in total. In the budget debate, employee benefits were finally reformed in the climate. Emissions from commuting will be reduced by speeding up the introduction of full electric cars with a reduction in tax value and a tax-free charging advantage. In addition, people will be encouraged to use public transport and the benefit from bicycles will be tax-free up to EUR 1200. Although only a small part of Finns are affected by company cars, this reform will be visible within a few years in the market for cheaper second-hand electric cars. By next year's debate, it will be examined whether the tax reduction in company cars could also be extended to biogas cars. Next, we also need to update other transport charges and taxes in the climate. Mr President! However, according to experts, the decisions taken so far are not sufficient to halve transport emissions by 2030, so work to promote fair change will continue in this sector as well. It is not enough, therefore, to make the transport system more efficient, to reform the car fleet, to refine emissions trading in transport, to reduce transport performance or to increase the share of zero-emission fuels in transport. Effective results will emerge from all of these on the basis of data studied together. The draft national transport system plan was completed a month ago and is due to be submitted for opinions at the beginning of the year. The objectives defined by the Transport 12 Steering Group for the plan are the sustainability, efficiency and accessibility of the transport system. In spring this output of parliamentary preparation will be approved by Parliament. Mr President! The use of the scrapping premium could have been extended so that it could be used to purchase bicycles for the whole family. One car, however, is a family transport. According to news reports at the moment, the aid available for the purchase of an electric bicycle has been gladly received. Further consideration should also be given to replacing the electrification of bicycles with support for the circular economy and domestic employment. The increase in cycling has brought more jobs both in production and in sales, but also in the maintenance and refurbishment of bicycles. In the bicycle industry there is a crying shortage of skilled bike mechanics, and first in Finland the training pilot was started by the Vocational College Tavast in Hämeenlinna. Mr President! As Hämeenlinna’s main railway activity, it should be recalled that the study of the economic study concluded that the development of the current main line is clearly a better option for the region’s economy and vitality than a new, direct shortcut. Refurbishment of modern tracks and improve the transmission capacity are also the number one option in the direction of Savo-Karjala. The main line is quite unique in terms of traffic volumes, and therefore its planning should now proceed at a speed. There is only one line of track in the Häme regional plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u85	Mr President! Reducing transport emissions requires investments in sustainable mobility. In addition to reducing emissions from private cars, it is important that we reduce the need for car use. This means making public transport, cycling and walking an attractive option for more and more people. It is particularly important for those who do not have their own car, such as children and young people, to be able to move without their own car. The construction of safe cycling and walking routes enables everyday exercise, which is a prerequisite for the well-being of all of us. A mobile way of life is learned as a child. Korona has increased commuting cycling, which I hope will remain a permanent trend. The generalisation of electric bicycles makes cycling an option for more and more people. The tax exemption of EUR 1200 for the employment cycle, which will come into force next year, will hopefully encourage more people to move on to commuting. This is excellent for both climate and health. Nearly EUR 30 million will be invested in walking and cycling next year. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and parts of buildings, as well as expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance and maintenance of equipment and equipment, as well as expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance and maintenance of equipment and equipment, as well as expenditure relating to the purchase, maintenance and maintenance of equipment and equipment, as well as expenditure relating to the purchase and maintenance of equipment and equipment, as well as expenditure relating to the purchase and maintenance of equipment and equipment, as well as expenditure relating to This pot is now worth showing to speed up municipal cycling projects. This is how more money can be done when municipalities put their share in it. And there is a real demand for this aid, because in 2020, this year, these state grants under the Investment Plan were requested for some EUR 66.5 million, compared with EUR 31.5 million of the available ones. I have to say that sometimes it surprises the confrontation that people want to build between cycling and driving. However, the fact is that the investments in cycling represent a fraction of road transport projects and can do much good. I am also pleased that the Committee on Finance added EUR 300000 to the budget to support the work of the Bike Union and the cycling network. Both these organisations are doing important work to promote cycling.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u86	Honorable Speaker! A good speech was made here recently by Mrs Myllykoski. He mentioned that if transversal connections were to be developed, there would then be no need for such investment in the main track. He's absolutely right. Here, many times, figures are compared — for example, Mr Ovaska here earlier — where these cross-border connections are not taken into account at all. For example, the mention that there is significant freight traffic on the main track and therefore it should be given priority, unlike, for example, the section between Turku and Helsinki, is wrong from the point of view that, in particular, this section of the line between Turku and Helsinki, which is called the beach, is specifically concentrated on passenger traffic, because heavy traffic goes through the Turku-Toijala line. It's used by the New Town Car Factory as well as by Yara and so on. That is why these figures are not comparable. As far as passenger transport is concerned, the question is that there is only one track that goes very much between Turku and Helsinki: if there are two trains, the other waits until the other comes and passes. This is why, of course, the number of passengers is low, because many train connections take longer to travel than a bus. So these should be taken into account when comparing these particular sections of the track. Of course, it is quite clear that if there are two or even three rails somewhere else at the moment, the passenger numbers are higher than where there is one rail. That is what this debate is about. Here, Minister Harakka mentioned earlier on the issue of taxis and the possibility that this matter of cost support would be applied for before Christmas. I very much hope that this is true, and it would also be particularly important for business names to be able to take part in this. These business name entrepreneurs were somewhat oppressed by this earlier package when they were not taken into account at all on the basis of the company form. I hope they fix this. And I also warmly welcomed Minister Haraka's mention of this Eurovignette, how it had already been taken to the Committee of Ministers and its introduction is being prepared together with other EU countries. This is a very welcome and important message, and I hope that we will at last try to move this forward so that we also retain the competitive advantage of domestic heavy goods transport. At the moment, we are planning all kinds of other types of track and track.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u87	Mr President! Transport issues are such that they talk about, the road issues in particular, they talk very much, and that has been reflected in this debate, in the budgetary debate. But, above all, it has been a long time since we have had a good grip here in such a way that these speeches have been praiseworthy and encouraging and that it has been seen that we still have a future in this area of transport. But, above all, I would like to raise a few points. These investments in the business sector have a significant impact on the traffic flows of raw materials. At present, the investments that the forest industry is making are making a significant contribution to traffic flows and it is important that they are taken into account and that important business targets are repaired and nodes removed. And then, of course, it is also important for the regions that we have set out in that 12-year plan that the regions should be reached within three hours, and that at the moment means air transport, for example, to the Oulu-Kajaani-Joensuu zone. There is still no rail traffic under it, but hopefully there will be times when that will be possible. Then again, how this interest rate will affect our mobility and traffic overall must be carefully considered so that unnecessary investment is not made at this stage, because it seems that telework is increasing and that is how people are moving. Well, of course tourism is one of those things that I'm sure will miss these good, flexible transport connections. But as has been mentioned here before, during the past summer a significant number of main roads were paved, refurbishment of roads. This report of ours has 4,000 kilometres, but this is the information we have received earlier in the autumn, and this warm autumn must have made it possible for us to do more — that is to say, now that this 5000 km has come up, it is certainly closer to the truth. It is really good that this has been the way to improve the coatings. Well, this telework involves a great deal of this broadband, and now it is possible to get funding from the EU recovery package for this type of project. I hope that the Minister will now take this broadband as one of the major projects to improve it in the sparsely populated region, precisely through the fibre, because it will also support this 5G network, which will then be able to achieve benefits for the broadband itself and then for the 5G connection. All in all, digitalisation is very important and is linked to a great many things, both transport and then to that communication. We were now able to use this so-called undivided reserve in the Transport Section. It had a total of 40 million euro for this undivided reserve, of which 17.3 million were then spent on various road safety projects, on light transport routes and hubs, and also on the development of heavy traffic junctions — 42 of them all around Finland. I believe that this was an important contribution. Although these are small in size, they have a significant impact, and it gives the people of the regions the feeling that they want to keep Finland as a whole inhabited and to improve the opportunities for mobility in that sector. Thank you for this. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u88	Mr President! I am sure that transport is very much the subject of debate because traffic affects us every day and we also move around a lot. Finns are also very interested in how transport matters are and how they are improved. And it is a great pleasure to hear this debate today in this Chamber, when the government's proposal for next year's budget, specifically the transport budget, is quite satisfactory over the government's opposition borders and has also been commended for the direction of the opposition. The fact is that basic infrastructure management, which is an important issue, has been permanently increased by EUR 300 million and road renovation projects have been launched in those regions also for lower-level road networks from the point of view of industry and large road projects have started already this year. The state subsidies for private roads will also amount to EUR 30 million next year — important for agriculture and forestry professions, rural areas and multi-spatiality. Private roads are a very important part of our transport system, and it is very good that this appropriation is now at this level. Next year we will also be able to move on with the ongoing broadband projects and, overall, we will be able to continue with broadband construction. It will be a very small sum of EUR 5 million next year, and I personally hope that the EU recovery package will also provide more funding. All in all, if I take this extension of high-speed broadband to the whole country, it is an important investment in the future to promote multi-spatial housing, and the provision of services on the Internet requires well-functioning connections, and it is also very important from the point of view of security of supply. Now a draft regulation has been submitted and the consultation has ended very recently. And now that the opinions have been received from this draft regulation, I sincerely hope that the Government will take those statements into account and will also amend the draft regulation to the extent necessary to ensure that these speeds are taken into account and that the municipalities' contributions are made at a reasonable level. They have become a great source of concern. And in Finland, too, we will need optical fibre connections in the future, it is the only working connection in many places, but we also need mobile broadband. So both will also be needed in the future. In this debate, this issue of the scrapping premium was raised by some. Now that early February comes into force with that fixed-term scrapping premium law, its interpretation has been somewhat confused. In fact, Traficom is interpreting the scrapping premium law in a rather strange way so that the scrapping premium would not be paid if you switched the old car into a new leasing car, because there is no law on the long-term rental of the car. I personally hope that the Minister of Transport will pay attention to this and will look into it and perhaps be corrected. I personally hope so. Then it is very good that next year we will be able to continue the closures of the Saimaa Canal. And I personally hope that the Transport 12 task force will be able to put an end to this eastern line as well. And I hope that there will also be funding for the renovations of Savo and Karelian lines in the future. They are very important projects; they are in need of renovation. And [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u89	Mr President! A hundred percent is a transport baget. We are close to Turkey, Tampere and the capital region, but due to poor connections we are partly excluded from this growth in Southern Finland. This is unacceptable. The transport connections of one hundred municipalities must be developed in the same way as those of growth centres. This means not only the development of smooth road connections but also well-functioning public transport, so that it is possible to choose a different mode of transport from one region to another. Currently, the Ministry of Transport and Communications is negotiating a new agreement with VR on rail transport purchases. One of the strong points that one hundred people has made is that trains cancelled from Pori must be returned to Tampere and passenger train traffic must be restarted to Rauma accordingly. The reasons for this are strong, and the government too will have the ability to do so. Firstly, the government has increased climate-based funding for public transport by EUR 20 million, but for some reason the government has not allocated this funding to passenger train purchases, which would also facilitate and support the development of public transport connections in non-large cities. At the moment, therefore, this climate funding is only running out to support the largest cities and urban areas. The re-launch of Rauma passenger train services has been under serious preparation for a couple of years. The planning of the Fairway Office is in the final stages of the new stoppage, and very careful and good expert reports have been carried out. The passenger potential of Rauma-Kokemäki is estimated to increase by up to 160000 trips per year. The number is considerably higher than that of the railway sections Karjaa-Hanko or Kouvola-Kotka, which are already supported by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Against this background, too, the demand of Rauma and South-Satakunta is fully justified. VR also announced this autumn that it was interested in travelling to Rauma if the Ministry of Transport is ready to buy this traffic. The Ministry therefore buys passenger train services at VR Group for EUR 32 million per year. The annual transport costs of Rauma are estimated at around 1.7 million. It is a small drop in the ocean, and by using this EUR 20 million investment that the Ministry of Transport has made for the development of public transport, this connection with Rauma can also be launched. Mr. Speaker! Now the government and Minister of Transport Timo Haraka have a point of view. The Ministry of Transport is currently negotiating a new agreement on train services with VR for the coming years. First of all, the new agreement must put back the shifts between Pori and Tampere, which have now been decided to close. The capital of the province must be well connected to growth centres. Secondly, Mr President, Rauma-Kokemäki passenger transport must be relaunched on the basis of the plans that have been made. It significantly improves the accessibility of both Rauma and Eurajoki, Eura and Kokemäki and binds the Rauma region into the growth triangle of Southern Finland. Mr. Speaker! The region of 50,000 inhabitants will not develop in the 2020s if there are not only good road connections but also good public transport connections to larger cities. Rauma is a growth centre for the whole of South-Satakunta, with a very strong industry, a large unit of teacher education with over 1,000 students, and there are also two UNESCO World Heritage sites, which also attract many tourists. Here too, there is a great deal of demand and use for this passenger train connection. Rauma and Satakunta are now looking forward to a positive solution from the Minister for Transport for the development of the region and the region as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u90	The debate and the debate will be suspended and will be resumed at a later date in this plenary session. The plenary session will be suspended for parliamentary group meetings and resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u91	The general debate on section 31, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u92	Mr President! As I mentioned earlier in this Chamber, I have talked a lot about the role of Finnish entrepreneurship and industry in Finland's well-being. I anticipated the need for Finnish export companies last spring and took a legislative initiative to abolish the fairway fee. Now this emergency has become a reality. The abolition of the fairway levy would bring the Finnish export industry into line with other Baltic Sea countries, i.e. competitors. Its price, EUR 50 million, would, in my opinion, be a small price to pay for the welfare that the Finnish export industry brings to Finns. With regard to the abolition of the levy, Minister Harakka has been scaring us here about the money that runs into the tropics, and, as usual, the government has had a solution to the problem of higher taxation on Finnish companies, not by improving competitiveness by means of reasonable taxation, but by pressing the entire export industry into a tight fist, and taxes on the back of the neck and Finland on the rise. Seaways and their maintenance are basic State infrastructure, the maintenance of which must be financed from the state budget. Minister Harakka also mentioned the wishes of the business community in relation to the fairway fee. The Minister said that business is looking for a long-term solution. However, Minister Harakka forgot to mention that if companies were allowed to choose for a long period of time a halving of the continuous fairway charge or the abolition of the long-term fairway charge, then the companies would not choose to remove it. For example, the decision to invest in a bioproduct plant designed by UPM in Kotka would certainly be more flexible if the fairway charge, i.e. this parafiscal charge, were at the level of our competitors. This is not nuclear physics, but an understanding of how taxation strangles Finnish entrepreneurship in a completely unreasonable way. Mr President! Another, perhaps a little more localised, namely highway 15 and its condition: Highway 15 plays a vital role in the major industry, industry and community development of Kymenlaakso, and now also in the emergency vehicles of health care. It is also the main route for commuting in Kymenlaakso urban areas. The average daily traffic volume of highway 15 is between 6500 and 10200 vehicles per day, accounting for about 20% of heavy traffic. It is significantly high, especially in the case of port traffic. Transport is expected to grow by as much as 30% by 2040. But, above all, I would like to emphasise that it is a channel of nearly 100,000 people to get safely to the hospital. As it is today, it is dangerous and it causes people to be overly and quite sadly afraid that their health is not being adequately cared for. The road plan for the link was completed in 2019, and the construction work can be started in 2021 — that is to say, it can be done. That is all I have, Mr President. This is my regards to Mr Haraka, Minister of Transport and Communications, and to the government as a whole. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u93	Mr President! We are dealing with the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications here. Now it turns out that this increase in fuel tax was a mistake. It should definitely be cancelled. And now that we have thought about such fairway charges that if they were based on such mileages and things, how much you move there, then it's not quite simple either. Of course, we already have a similar system in terms of the amount of fuel being pumped into the car, the more fuel goes and taxes are paid for it. But if such a kilometer-based system were introduced, then it really is not simple. Cars should be equipped with such devices, and they should be approved somehow, because it's not okay that they're anything. If more were paid for driving on finer and better roads in the city area than then on the dirt roads, how would it be followed in practice? In that case we should have a bit of positioning in place, and we cannot have a positioning again, because it is already being monitored, which is unacceptable. This increase in fuel tax should definitely now be cancelled, especially in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u94	Mr President! Mr Reijonen actually motivates me to make this speech. I have spoken a lot about the competitiveness of companies, and it is quite clear that these increases in fuel taxes are things that hinder companies' survival within the country as well as at international level. And if we think about how Finland will rise from this – because, fortunately, after the interest rate, the time comes when it matters what political decisions have been made financially – then I think it is a good idea to cancel the fuel tax increase. That would be a very correct signal, and I also think that it would be the right signal that Finland is a large country and that people should have freedom and the opportunity to move around with their own cars, to work, to take children to hobbies. As a Kymenlaakso, a Kouvola — In South-East Finland, we have a lot of distances — I do not think it is right for people to be unduly punished for the need to drive. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u95	Mr President! It is nice to say to the Minister that when we talk about traffic and talk about these emissions, we also have to take into account things that may not always have been thought of. I heard that it is said that there are loos in Eastern Finland when they are in use, and when they have a certain load capacity, how much they carry, then there will be problems when there are big lumber trucks like this: it has even had to be done in such a way that when big timber trucks come to the ferry, they will have to be turned away because we don't have those kind of sledges that can carry enough. This is especially the problem in Eastern Finland. That if there are these Green Deals and others coming up, then is it thought of whether these things could be used for, for example, the purchase of these cargoes, that in them it would be enough to carry such cars, that now there is no need for cars to turn back from the corner of the ferry — it is not in any way reasonable that back and forth cars will be driven when there is not enough carrying capacity in the loses.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u96	Section 33 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is now presented. At this stage, 2 hours will be reserved for the general discussion in the section. The debate will begin on behalf of the sections of the Committee on Finance, Mr Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u97	Mr President! There were a number of points raised in the section, and I would like to raise a few of them here first: Two appropriations deducted from the budget, [Fresh—The President-in-Office] Then there is one long-term tragedy that has been raised in several budget reports, which relates to the maintenance of quality registers in the field of social services, and here the committee added EUR 1.4 million. These quality registers have been piloted, and it was the idea that permanent action could have started at the beginning of this year, but this has not happened since then, and there was no resource in the draft budget for this. That is why we felt that this was an important target for money. It is therefore a question of measuring and improving the quality and effectiveness of care and, for example, improving patient safety and improving knowledge management. In addition, one of the major themes of budgetary allocation was the Istanbul agreement and the violence against the intimate partners, and the section proposed an additional EUR 300000. On the Ministry of Justice's side, there was already talk of the additions, which meant that the total amount was higher. It has been a question of implementing these obligations under the Istanbul Convention, and one part of it is the programme to prevent female genital mutilation, measures to fund coordination in the fight against violence and, for example, an increase in the number of shelters. The coordination of rare diseases also received an additional EUR 250000. We are talking about diseases where there are few people with one disease in itself, but when all these rare diseases are gathered together we are talking about the diseases of 300,000 Finns. This treatment is divided into medical districts operating a university hospital, but in addition to that, we need national coordination, and a quarter of a million was needed for this. Food aid has been on the table in this Chamber a lot, and Parliament has in fact already said last year that we need to make a statement on how to find a sustainable solution to this. Well, the ministry has well started, and that study is being carried out and solutions are being sought. Next year there will be no money in the budget for this purpose, but when the government proposed an additional two million in the budget, this money is currently unused, and the committee stated that it should be spent as quickly as possible and distributed, and during the year we must think that if this resource is not enough, then we will return to it in order to mobilise that money, but instead there was no need to increase the budget for this purpose. The coeliac allowance was one of the issues on which much has also been said in Parliament, and here the committee took a position and considered it essential that the reimbursement of the coeliac allowance be examined and taken into account in the preparation of the 21st spring framework. Support for veterans was on the table and, according to a report received by the committee, there are still large differences in the allocation per veteran in the municipalities. It is therefore important to ensure that municipalities are informed and adequately informed. Time goes quickly, but one more thing that came up strongly, and it is related to university health research. This is where we actually need to find solutions before the social structures change, and the committee took a firm position on this. We have had more resources for this now, and it is not possible in the new structures, but we cannot allow this important issue to collapse in this country, as it were. Then there was the high level of mental health, and there was thanks, among other things, for the fact that a resource has been allocated to this side, but yet we took a statement that this interest rate has made these situations so difficult that we also need to look at the adequacy of its resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u98	Mr President! The budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health contributes to the objectives of social sustainability of the Government Programme. The security of income and high-quality social and health services provide well-being and trust that everyone is cared for. The Government is committed to securing the well-being of Finns beyond the crisis with minimal human and financial damage. We want everyone to remain involved during and after the corona crisis. The draft budget of the Ministry ensures the financing and functioning of the social security system in an exceptional situation. The interest crisis has a significant impact on the growth of Kela's benefits, such as unemployment benefit, housing allowance and basic income support. EUR 17.7 billion is proposed for the administrative sector of STM, which is EUR 2.8 billion more than in the 2020 budget itself. The increase in appropriations is due to the corona virus situation, in particular the estimated increase in unemployment and in the number of laid-off persons. In exceptional times, the role of social and health organisations is emphasised. This has been taken into account in the Government's proposal by compensating for the decrease in the yield of Veikkaus for STM by EUR 149.2 million. A total of EUR 362.4 million is proposed for STEA grants.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u101	Thank you. — Minister Kiuru continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u102	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to thank the section of the Committee on Finance, in particular the President and all the Members and alternates, for having done an excellent job once again. I am personally very pleased with the priorities that you have put to an end to that section. In that regard, we can also get our heads open on a number of important issues, and that does make me happy. Mr President! If, then, the general budget is considered for next year, it is important to note that investment and investment in people is reflected in this budget once again. In practice, the budget for the section is EUR 2.8 billion more than in the current year, which is explained in particular by the fact that the resources for managing the corona pandemic are increasing precisely because of the fact that the direct costs will be reimbursed for a total of approximately EUR 1.6 billion, most of which will be for testing and tracing the supply chains. In the autumn budget debate, the government also committed itself to fully reimburse the costs associated with the corona, such as testing, testing capacity, tracing, quarantine, patient care, travel safety and vaccine, for as long as this situation requires, and this promise is maintained. Mr President! In addition to the Koronavirus, next year there will be an increase in the section of the STM specifically to push forward the reform of the content of social and health care, and I think it is time that we were able to reform the content and improve things in practice. Now that the reform of social welfare and health care has been given to Parliament in the planned timetable, it is time not only for structural reform but also for substantive reforms to be addressed. The Government has already started to reform the content of health services and social services in good time, and the reform work will continue in the coming year. We will have a total of EUR 128 million in the development of the entire social welfare structure and services next year. It is a really big contribution that tells us that we genuinely want to improve the availability of services, strengthen the cross-sectoral nature and interoperability of services, and that it will also have an impact on people's care. In this respect, this is particularly important in terms of care for the elderly, but there are also investments in mental health services within the framework of the mental health strategy and details that will help us to develop our basic services in the right direction in this time frame. Nor must we forget the development of services for the elderly, and in the first part of this, the binding human dimension of care for the elderly is now guaranteed by law, and this legislative reform came into force from the beginning of October. Gradual progress has now reached the point where, next year, more money will be needed to implement that reform, and these sums are already in place. Another important point is that the customer fee law is being reformed, and thanks to the fine work of the Parliament, we will now be able to implement this large package with funding next year, which will reduce the customer fees of almost a million Finns, which means that it is right under the line. These are important good investments in the right things, so that is where the work is visible. Mr President! We also have a focus on other development and innovation in the social and health sector. Part of this is support for the growth strategy, i.e. the development of the functioning of national centres of expertise, and there are a wide range of perspectives. Valvira's resources for monitoring information systems are also important to strengthen and start looking for new actions for the development and implementation of information management. In other words, EUR 32 million will be invested in these issues, namely the growth strategy mentioned above, the programme to change child and family services and the services of women who use drugs. The work and functional capacity of people will also be supported next year by the extension of the disability programme and rehabilitation development projects, and rehabilitation needs to be much more closely integrated into people's care pathways and social and health care services. Mr President! These are some of the key points that have been made since the excellent presentation by the section president. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u103	Thank you. — It seems that there is a desire for a debate here — why not?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u104	Mr President! When you look at this budget for next year, as much as 27.4% of the total is the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and when you look at the items that are rising from the previous year, then, of course, this effect of the interest rate, as indicated in the presentation of the ministers, is particularly evident. EUR 1.7 billion are reserved for treatment and tracing and testing of interest-bearing patients, but then also for additional expenditure, unemployment benefit, basic income support, housing allowance, almost one billion euros in total, and this tells us that when we get into this kind of corona crisis that causes an economic crisis, so also government spending will increase through this increase. Although we are now heavily in debt, it is important to remember that even in the future
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u105	Mr President! I must say that it has been a very exceptional year, and I would first like to thank the ministers for your important and good work. It is precisely the many citizens who are in a very vulnerable position who are very dependent on these decisions, services and livelihoods which belong to your administrative sector, and in that sense, with their mouths, I would like to thank you very much for this year. It is important that we continue to send a message to the municipalities and health care districts that all costs are fully compensated and that money is spent on this test, and this is extremely important in this budget. What is particularly good is this catching up of the care and service debt, because we know that it has been so much piled up in this year, and after hearing about these treatment queues and the pressure accumulated in home care, it is good that such a significant amount has been allocated there. And then these organizations that came here, in particular:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u106	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! War is being planned, and it is important that it takes account of ordinary people. It has already become clear here that there will be funding to measure the quality of care and the effectiveness of treatment, and it is really important to see that it matters. It really matters. It also has an impact on the way in which the local services play and, of course, the proximity of health stations must be taken into account. If you think that now that decision-making is moving further away, it may be much easier to close down small health stations — is that not the case? The cooperation between university hospitals and universities must also be taken into account and there is sufficient funding for them. And of course, a normal person is interested in how to support family carers. What has been planned so far, and what has been done for this informal care? It is also a big matter how to keep the medical staff in this area. Has there been any thought of a solution? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u107	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Veterans' rehabilitation money is being cut in this budget. It is understandable, in a certain way, when the number of veterans is reduced, but of course their need for care is growing ever more and more. This was a great innovation that the veterans and the war ombudsmen came to the same line. It was an excellent act of equality and an expression of thanks. We may have about ten more years of veterans among us. Every day, about seven veterans call the final evening cry, and the crowd is getting fewer and fewer. However, it has now been established that the military have not been able to carry out this traditional Veteran collection, and the proceeds of veteran organisations, which are directed to veterans, are decreasing by around EUR 1 million. I would like to ask you, Mr Pekonen: is it possible to find a solution to compensate for this bill of collection, because it is out of the rehabilitation of these veterans? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u108	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank the ministers for their excellent resilience to the crisis this year. It is important that the gradual implementation of the nursing function has begun. In its budget report, the Committee on Finance has referred to a recent study according to which the cost of care for elderly people in Finland would be EUR 3.1 billion more without the help of family members than at present. Just as Mr Reijonen referred to this same subject, I would like to ask: what measures has the government taken to improve the situation of informal care?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u109	Mr President! The resources of basic mental health services, the range of services, skills and the functioning of care chains are seriously flawed, which have continued to worsen as a result of the corona epidemic. Local mental health services for children and young people are also insufficient. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore proposes in its statement that the government should take urgent action to secure the debt of mental health care. This will require improved access to mental health services and faster access to care and, if necessary, additional funding for the development of mental health services next year. I should like to ask Minister Kiuru: is the government committed to providing additional funding for the development of mental health services next year, if necessary?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u110	Mr President! As a child, no one wishes to have a drug problem as an adult, and certainly no one wishes to have a situation in which one’s own loved one is addicted to drugs, drugs, or alcohol. Fortunately, we are already talking a lot about mental health in this society, for example in this Chamber, but often the problem of substance abuse is still silent. And yet, it is known that the problem of substance abuse can often be caused precisely by the mental health challenge in which the problem of being ill and the symptoms of substance abuse is addressed. However, the use of drugs is not only damaging to their users but also to those close to us who should be better supported by our system. However, the situation is particularly challenging if a person with a substance abuse problem is pregnant. We know how harmful it is to use intoxicants during pregnancy for the development of an unborn child, and we know that guilt does not help, but must succeed in securing quality and effective services for every waiting family. I would therefore like to thank you for every addition that has now been made to help these families and pregnant people during this term of government and even at this point. I would also like to thank you for your decisions to secure the resources of the organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u111	Mr President! It's been a hard corona year. This has been a hard year for Finnish society as a whole and especially for social and health services. Although this has also been a hard year for decision-making, I also share my thanks to the Ministry and the preparatory staff of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health as a whole. Although it is hoped that next year this interest rate will be removed acutely, it will be a long-term care debt among us, but also social problems that have worsened and deepened due to the year of the interest rate and the interest rate. It is extremely important that these social problems, which have arisen as a result of the corona crisis, should also be reduced and managed in a systematic manner. Mr President! The committee's statement on improving access to mental health care is very important, and I believe that the whole Parliament shares this desire that delays and shortcomings in mental health services be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u112	Värderade Talman! I nasta års budget finns det många anslag för viktiga förebyggande verksamhetsformer. Att reagera i preventivt syfte sparar på sikt samhällets kostnader. Den utbredda psychiska ohälsan och svårigheterna att med låg tröskel få rätt vård tas på stort allvar, och finansutskottet har en kläm om att snabba instser behövs för att åtgärda problemmet. Coordinatoringsarbetet kring sällsynta sjukdomar beviljas ett extra anslag så att förverkligandet av det nationalella programmet kan komma igång med Jämikare vård som följd.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u113	Mr President! In this time the dictation of the corona virus epidemic is rather brutal, and it dictates to a large extent also the activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and how to deal with the disease itself and whether the epidemic can be controlled, how to safeguard our health care carrying capacity. This is a constant fight against time, as it were, until vaccination coverage is obtained. Of course, as Mr Sarkkinen said well, I am concerned that the consequences of this corona will also be reflected in the budgets of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health for years to come. In particular, I am concerned about our social side and how this will start to be seen in the long run in the development of the need for services. That is why I would particularly like to thank you for increasing asylum places, for investing in the services of mothers who use drugs and for now taking mental health problems on the wallpaper and talking about their resources,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u114	Mr President! I cannot say that I have not been a little disappointed last Friday when I watched the budget report when I had to find out that there was no funding available for research and training and activities related to corsets. Of course, there is still a need for research on the subject, and this has never been meant to be some kind of magic way of solving the costs, queues and reliability problems of interest rate testing by clicking on the fingers, but the potential of dogs is great and I think that we should have supported this research and activity so that it does not just remain a potential. In addition, dogs already trained by the smell separation method can be trained to recognise not only corona but also other things, so this potential would certainly not be untapped in the future. I would have asked if the potential of dogs was to be exploited in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u115	Now, Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u116	Mr President! Thank you. Suffering, I expected a little praise for this performance. [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : This is the occasion. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u119	Mr President! In the same spirit as Mr Laukkanen has just stated whether there must be an equally large consensus in any other section of the House — because I felt that the proposals for amendments represent less than one thousandth of the total, that is to say less than one per mill. In fact, Mr Salmon here said that this is a section of large figures of 17.6 billion, which in fact would still include the central part of basic services in the section of the Ministry of Finance, when we are dealing here with more than 10% of GDP. And of course it is because there is unemployment benefit here, there is income support here, there is housing here, there is support for municipalities and family benefits and so on. It has been very pleasant to listen to this debate, which is characterised by a strong consensus and which highlights this fundamental security aspect. I thank the government for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u120	Mr President! For my part, I would also like to thank the government for not forgetting the poor and the low-income, and this kind of caring for fellow citizens goes beyond government boundaries, such as this very important food aid which, on a national level, has received a great deal of appreciation — thank you. However, I would have asked about this thematic issue when the government is preparing this reform of the Act on Contagion and that part of the reform of the Act on Contagion seeks to address the conditions under which the company operates and, for example, the rights of association and assembly of parishes: I understand that from the outset, but then there are many questions in the content that give rise to some concern. It is also possible, I understand, in quarantine, in isolation when it is originally voluntarily entered into quarantine, that then, if you do not want to go voluntarily, you can also impose and implement this in a health care unit, and this quarantine can also be carried out not only for the sick but also for the exposed, or
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u121	Mr President! I must thank you and say that the social policy of this government is reflected in this budget and it is excellent that we have the poor and the underprivileged received what they want — not as much as it should be distributed, of course. But when something should always remain under the line and savings should be made, and also so that the services would be close to the person, I would like to ask the Minister what kind of view is there that we have received very much negative messages since the taxi reform and after Kela's tendering, and there have even been fewer deliveries, because people spend their own money to get the service they like. In Lapland, more than a hundred drivers are missing out on this undemocratic competition.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u122	Once again, representatives of Werner, Ollikainen and Filatov, and then the ministers' replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u123	Mr President! This year has been a very challenging and job-filled year, and I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that you deserve all the thanks you have heard in this Chamber. I am particularly pleased, as Mr Laukkanen said here and many others, to take account of the organisations. We will not succeed in the future without strong input from the third sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u124	Thank you, too!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-17-ps-168.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
