ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u2	Mr President! So all of this is about the fact that, in this crisis situation, workers can be laid off more quickly and, accordingly, when the bill is received, these laid-off persons will receive a lay-off allowance without any time limit, i.e. this is a fair and reasonable solution. In the vast majority of collective agreements, these changes have already been made, but not all of them, and the very fact that they have not been made in all collective agreements means that companies, workers and industries are not on an equal footing with each other, and that is why we are going to make a proposal. Mr President! I will read that proposal in just a moment, but I would like to open this philosophical aspect here by quoting directly from SAK economist Ilkka Kaukoranta, who has written in his blog: ‘The overall balance is an advantage for companies,and this single weapon is also an advantage for employees. The costs of companies are cut and employment security is reduced. The whole is therefore undeniably unbalanced for the benefit of companies. However, in this case too, SAK has left the issue of employee lobbying. This time, however, the interests of employees are largely the same as those of enterprises. Avoiding bankruptcy is in our common interest, because without companies there are no jobs either. The aim is to create a bridge over difficult times for businesses to restore the economy as quickly as possible after the epidemic. Without such solutions, there would be a long and deep recession in which employment would be permanently lower." In fact, all the essential things have been said here, and this would best be done in such a way that this will and opportunity are available in all areas. Unfortunately, this is not the case in those areas where collective agreements have not been amended. I would therefore like to make the following statement: ‘In view of the exceptional circumstances which exist in the country,the Government shallprepare to prepare,on an expeditiously, amendments to the labour law which are in force on So this is our presentation, and that means that, in this crisis situation, the law takes precedence over collective agreements and ensures that all companies, all employees and all sectors are in the same position.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u3	Mr President! I support the proposal made by Mr Satose. As he said, at the moment the interests of businesses and employees are common and the target state is common. Every company that falls in this corona crisis means more unemployment, and every company that can help through this crisis together will also guarantee that these jobs will continue in the future. We have often said that no healthy company should die because of the interest rate, and that is also the case in this proposal. If I have understood correctly, 90% have already been able to agree on this flexibility and a solution that will hopefully secure jobs beyond the crisis, but many companies, Mr President, are also in need of pure financial support at the moment. That weekend I read these measures, to which this money, which the Parliament raised to about one billion, is being directed through Business Finland and elys. There was talk of reorientation, wider development needs and the development of subcontracting networks, and then the conclusion was that the grant could not be granted for the normal activities of the company. Mr President! These companies need assistance specifically for that normal activity. In what way does a barber-hairdresser redirect his business or a transport company redirect its business if it has been able for years, even decades, to run its business in full vitality? Now we need decisions and bridges such as this proposal beyond this difficult crisis situation, but also pure money for these Finnish companies. They have to pay rents, and many have asked whether rental subsidies could not be introduced in Finland to save companies from the crisis. This must be seriously considered, or the introduction of various charges on the state's hands, or as one very concrete measure proposed by the coalition that VAT could be returned to companies in the early part of the year. It would help these companies to overcome this crisis. We are not just thinking of companies here in the meeting, but we are thinking, just as Mr Satonen said, that the interests of companies and workers are in common and in common here. Every attempt that can be saved beyond this crisis means saving jobs and a better position for Finns even after this crisis. Mr President! I support Mr Satose's excellent proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u4	We will now finish the debate on this draft law. Then there will be a 15-minute break before the vote on this statement, which means that not everyone has to be there yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u5	Mr President! This bill is very much to be welcomed and I would like to acknowledge here to the government and the committee that this proposal has been brought forward as a matter of urgency and that it will be put into effect as soon as possible. However, it is important that this possibility of lay-off applies to all sectors, including those in which collective agreements have not been amended. In other words, it would be important for this five-day rule to become a real opportunity for all companies, and that is why I would like to say here that the Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament also supports the impetus expressed by Mr Arto Satose. Mr President! I would like to say that we must now do everything possible to ensure that healthy businesses and jobs can survive this crisis. In this connection, I would like to draw attention to the same points that Mr Heinonen spoke about earlier, namely rental aid and then direct funding for companies. It should also be ensured that these government financial support measures also apply to employment foundations, associations and association-owned enterprises. For example, there is concern from organisations that these funds from Business Finland or Finnvera unfortunately do not directly concern them, and there are healthy economic activities and jobs there too, which should be of concern for their survival.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u6	Mr President! After all, the government's proposal has been made in a hurry, and it is a good one in itself, and although this has been done recently, it is very clear here, for example, how quickly they have changed. At the time of the government’s presentation, there were 150,000 registered infections, and today the result is nearly 600,000 and the number of deaths is 27,210. In that sense, this infection is moving at an awful fast pace, and it is also important to keep up with the legislation if we have to legislate. In this regard, of course, this proposal by Mr Satose is very much to be welcomed, because it is extremely important to secure jobs. I would also like to point out at this stage that we have a lot of these everyday heroes who are now fighting for Finns, such as health professionals and also cleaners and store cashiers who are risking their own health while doing the work. I would have liked the government to have done some hand-out to these people, too, because they would need more dangerous work when they are currently working. Many occupations add to dangerous work, and in this context it would have been reasonable to find a way to give, for example, tax benefits during the next few months of work. I'd leave this to the government to think about. I would also like to highlight one aspect of the plight of entrepreneurs. We have all received mail from one company, and an example of one company is brought up. When the tenants have approached the landlords and asked for reasonable rent payments, our insurance companies, such as insurance company Varma, have simply stated unequivocally that, hey, we have to secure pension funds and we do not give any flexibility in moderation at all and we expect the State to resolve this issue in some way. Such a one-eyed view of entrepreneurs' distress is worrying, because if not all aspects of society send out the message that everyone at some level, according to their carrying capacity, will moderate rent costs, for example, and if not, companies will collapse. It does not make much sense to spend all the money from the state simply on rent payments, because it is also necessary for many other expenses. In this respect, I hope that these matters will proceed in the course of further work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u7	Mr. Speaker! The key issue in this adaptation of the labour market to crisis conditions is surely that in four days the labour market was able to come up with a very broad package, both on facilitating the payment burden of employers and on certain legislative changes, one of which was to facilitate and speed up lay-offs. I am sure that those words by Mr Satose, the Chief Economist of the Far East, fit into this situation, but it has been rightly pointed out from the GERMANY side that we should also return to this negotiating line, to centralised solutions and to tripartite agreements, even when we come out of this lowland and in normal times. We certainly need difficult labour market solutions in the end, especially in the context of the crisis, so that we can quickly increase the employment rate, and that is the spirit of agreement and not such unilateral control. This is a positive proposal: this is a small part of the labour market, where this reduction in the notice period for the lay-off of collective agreements would be needed. My view is that this spirit of agreement is also found in these areas, when a very broad and much more difficult agreement has been reached between the central organisations, i.e. that it would not be left here now with this kind of change of legislation. Therefore, even though the idea is in the right direction, this kind of intervention by law in this situation does not seem correct. What is now certainly needed more in the workplace in connection with this corona crisis is strengthening protection measures. Of course, the government is currently negotiating, but my idea is precisely how, in the various types of work, where teleworking is not possible, to be able to rotate around in such a way as to safeguard the protection of staff against this virus is that it means increasing safety intervals, sharing protective equipment and changing working arrangements, and I believe that it would also require a joint effort by the social partners to get this big change moving quickly. But if necessary, it should also be speeded up by the Government and Parliament. The return to a more normal time also applies to this broad programme of measures, which is needed. That is where Mr Niikko referred to these rent reliefs. The same applies, of course, to payment periods and late payments in the private sector, to penalties, and so on, when the state is providing a truly large package to reduce tax retention and late payments, and I have sometimes referred in the discussions to the need for a process similar to that of debt settlement — i.e. voluntary receipt of over-indebtedness by banks and financial institutions — at the beginning of the 21st century. Now this need is just so fast that it should already be in the process of negotiations, for example, to involve the lessors more widely and, in the case of non-residential debtors, for example, to extend the periods of short-term leave and so on, so that these exceptional conditions can be dealt with with with with the least possible damage to employment. This is the spirit of reconciliation both in the labour market and in society at large.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u8	Mr President! Mr Koskinen spoke very wisely. The different sectors are now in a different situation, and that is why it is valuable in this proposal that, first of all, we have brought these changes to Parliament's attention quickly and, secondly, the social partners have made these proposals together. It tells us that we can react quickly and act under such exceptional circumstances. I also believe that this can be done because of the trust capital that we are used to building in Finnish society, and now we can demonstrate our strength precisely because we have a culture of reconciliation and discussion, in which we can bring work-life issues to Parliament in a quick time. These proposals create the conditions for employers to be able to cope with changes to demand for services and to demand for products as quickly as possible due to the interest rate situation, and we need to create a framework for entrepreneurs to respond to this. Several speakers here have raised concerns about companies, and so have I, because the key to recovering from this crisis is that we should be able to maintain as many jobs as possible after the crisis. If we were caught in major bankruptcies, it would be a great loss for our economy and Finland in general, for Finnish society. This proposal is therefore an example of the measures that need to be taken in the labour market, and this is a very exceptional proposal, but I believe it is precisely in favour of the joint approval of the measures proposed by the social partners. I would also like to say that the situation is very worrying not only for companies but also for many workers. It is precisely this debate on the various activities, protective equipment and who is able to stay in remote work and who is not, that is, sharing our working life at the moment. For example, our families are also in tough situations when children stay at home, and if parents are unable to get paid for their work, for example, families are also facing a very tight economic situation. So we must not put companies and workers against each other, but we must ensure that we do everything we can to ensure that companies can cope with this crisis and that workers working in companies can continue to keep their jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u9	Mr President! This temporary law clearly seeks to build a bridge over this crisis. Of course, such a drastic measure that lay-off will be carried out so quickly is very, very important. When Mr Satonen presented the motion for a resolution, he pointed out that this was a matter of mutual interest between workers and employers. I'm sure this is the case from two angles: The first common interest is to overcome this corona pandemic in general, that is to say to work to really get this thing done, which, of course, is that people cannot physically be as close to each other as they were before, which then causes these problems to work on a wider scale. Another common interest is what Mr Satonen referred to by quoting the main economicist in the SAK, the Far East, who has stated that this clearly reduces employers' costs, the cost structure and, on the other hand, reduces the security of employment. Of course, this is true. How Finland is able to make such decisions without a major uprising is precisely because of what representatives of Koskinen and Salonen in these last speeches pointed out that we have a team of workers who are familiar with their responsibilities, an organized trade union movement that is able to recognise the situation that, when such a crisis exists, we need to compromise. Quite rightly, Mr Koskinen and Mr Salonen also stressed that it would be desirable for employers to see this responsibility also when a continuation is agreed — and even as was previously agreed on these common issues. This kind of central consensus has been the way to take forward this Finnish contractual society and to achieve all that has been achieved so far, so it would be good to return to the former negotiating practices and to understand that all of this is about taking responsibility together. Mr President! Now that we are talking about these layoffs and the lay-off situation in Finland, now we are here in Uusimaa, the province of Uusimaa, in fact — when we no longer have a county structure, unfortunately — which is separated from the rest of Finland, is the most significant effect of the lay-offs at the moment. We now have more than 150,000 employees in Uusimaa who are practically one third of Uusimaa’s workforce under lay-off. We're talking about a really big scale right now in this province. The situation is not as bad in other provinces as it is, but if this corona crisis is accelerated, then we are in a similar situation elsewhere, when, unfortunately, Finnish society, workers and employers, entrepreneurs and workers, all of them, are forced to compromise on big issues. That is why this combination of coal is important here, and it was also the case that speeches were made that at all levels of society should now understand that the pain and financial responsibility are shared together, and not that someone will then take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u10	Mr President! I would like to comment on this impetus of Mr Satonen and the debate on it: Such a crisis situation is a situation in all societies that brings policy to the surface in the most obvious and naked way, and that policy also includes saying that it is not the time for politics, but it is now clearly time for a strong policy to be spoken, as is the case with the crisis. I could start with this description by Mr Koskinen that in four days the labour market managed to make a very large package, which he called a comprehensive agreement. Well, if you look into this situation a little further, these same proposals had already been in the proposals of Finnish Entrepreneurs before these four days. It then lost another four days when some cosmetic additions were added, but about the same things were presented by the social partners. And, of course, it is not an agreement, it is a recommendation to the government, as you should well know in this house. It is up to the Government and Parliament — that is, this Chamber — to decide. This ritualistic worship of organizations does not seem appropriate to me in this situation. It is all right to emphasise national unity, but it should not now lead to the need for a return to the Cold War approach, which asked the organisations about the foundations of wage, economic and social policy. However, as it was routinely praised here by representatives Kiljunen and Koskinen again, could we remind you that it is precisely this so-called common agreement that has now led to the fact that Finland is by far the highest structural unemployment in the Nordic countries and that our welfare expenditure is not financed by the employment rate that can be created on the basis of these institutions. Many may feel that why I am talking about these fundamental issues now, but it is a little ominous if the future, the rise from this crisis, begins to be backed up by the wonderful past of the Cold War, where everything was decided in the cabinets of the EK and the SAK. These appeals to this so-called society of reconciliation are becoming absurd,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u18	Mr President! Mr Satonen's excellent proposal is very welcome. It is a good thing that the social partners have come up with a comprehensive package, and that was one of the measures from there. In that sense, of course, it would be good if the government had decided to present this same relief to companies, regardless of their sector of activity, directly to the law. It is a question of the fact that, in times of crisis, not only during the crisis, but especially at a time when even a little bit of light is beginning to dawn, companies will then be able to hire more, but it requires that we have companies there, and that means that it should be the healthy companies that have handled their affairs well until now, and whose entrepreneurial risk this current crisis cannot in any way be covered. In this Chamber, too, we must understand that no attempt is going to lay people off for fun. I have been discussing this with a large number of entrepreneurs over the past week, and there have been a few who have just got a drop in the lens when they have told me how sad it is to have to tell their employees this news. Now it would be good if this had actually been brought into the law at once, and then the government too could concentrate on these other crisis measures which, on the one hand, help businesses in this difficult situation but, above all, help people — that is what this is ultimately about. We presented a comprehensive crisis package last week and it is good that the government has also picked up some of those measures. They are proposals, we offer the hand of cooperation on these issues, how to move forward from this crisis. I would like to pay particular tribute to this increase in the social security of small entrepreneurs once and for all under these circumstances, but I hope that even after this crisis, small-scale business activity, for example, will be possible alongside social security without, for example, having to completely shut down its business activity, its Y-code, and then when business starts to run better, everything will be in order for business. In addition to this, we have put forward a comprehensive package on taxation, including facilitating tax payment arrangements — deadlines and due dates must be transferable by means of a self-declaration. At the same time, interest on late payments is good at this point to put temporary zeros. We have also argued that VAT at the beginning of the year could be refunded to companies on application. This would be particularly important for companies that are now experiencing an acute cash crisis. Unlike these direct subsidies from Business Finland, for example, VAT is in proportion to the actual volume that companies would have run anyway if such a crisis had not hit this point. In addition to this, one concrete measure: In fact, a significant part of Finland's foreign trade and our business structure is business-to-business trade, so it would be very important for this time-limit to set VAT at zero for business-to-business trade. It would do nothing other than that, at the time of the direct purchase, the Finnish company would be on the same line as the European company, for example, because the buyer would not have to account for the 24 % albu which has a significant cash flow and which can then be reapplied. Well, we have a whole series of other measures in the package, and in addition to these, we would be happy to encourage the government to bring more structural reforms to Parliament by the time of the spending limits debate, of course with regard to social security — we are looking forward to this package of social security for entrepreneurs — but also to these wider labour market reforms. Now would be a good time for it, as Mr Vartiainen said next door, to promote local reconciliation, not in a radical spirit, but in a very common European spirit, in particular, to allow small and medium-sized enterprises, which have not even had the theoretical opportunity to participate in the drafting of collective agreements, to agree with their employees where they are known — because, ultimately, it would be important for us here in Parliament to bear in mind that we are here for the ultimate protection of people and not for organisations or unions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u19	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities for the prompt examination of the proposal — Mr Kontula, Vice-President Taimela and the whole committee — in the sense that we are already living for the third week of the first government-restriction measures. It is important that this period of lay-off from two weeks is reduced to five days here. It is a necessary and effective measure. It is also important for the employer to be able to lay off a fixed-term employee in the future. These two proposals are completely exceptional, but what else have we seen in this Chamber over the last few weeks but that we are living in exceptional circumstances and an exceptional time. It is also important that the provision on probation be specified and that it is possible to terminate the probationary period or to terminate the employment relationship during the probationary period for productive and economic reasons. This is where Mr Satonen and many others have pointed out that the interests of businesses and employees are shared, and indeed that is what they are. That Friday, 13 March, was indeed Friday the 13th: that Friday, especially in the service sector, started to drop in turnover, and from the beginning of the week, when you listened to entrepreneurs, so many service entrepreneurs and tourism and restaurant entrepreneurs said that turnover fell by 75 per cent in the first few days, some up to 95 per cent, and it is known that for some of them the turnover has dropped to 100 per cent, i.e. to zero. In other words, we need swift, effective and responsible action of this kind. It would be very important for this to apply to everyone now, especially since we are not being made aware of and at the decision-making stage we are not being told who is not affected. After all, entrepreneurs are asking whether this now applies to us and to our industry and so on. Indeed, if anyone in the hall at the moment knows exactly who this does not concern, it would also be responsible to tell this to all who make this decision. And then a few more things: Firstly, this view of entrepreneurs: I am really concerned, as I am sure the whole Chamber, especially about service companies. The pain that is being caused there is, at the moment, the lack of vision. It is not known, as is of course none of us, whether events, events or gatherings can be arranged for June, July, August. For many SMEs, there is nothing — nothing — to benefit from the provision of a loan and the provision of a further loan because there is no prospect of its being repayable. That is why measures of this kind are also needed, which from that expense point of view are capable of... In many cases, however, rental costs and employer costs and employee wages are the highest. To the end: I myself come from Southern Ostrobothnia, Ostrobothnia, and 20 years ago I moved from there to Oulu. Of course, when I was a kid, I went through the recession of the '90s and the family business went bankrupt and so on, but I do remember that when I was a kid in Ostrobothnia, I did the same thing to keep the village alive if it went around fast enough. But now we have the situation that no hundred of us in the city can keep our parts alive, because that money simply does not circulate. Last but not least, Mr President, last season the right to unemployment benefit was laid down for an entrepreneur's common-law spouse, spouse or family member who once worked in a family business. So it wasn't there before. Last season, it was done. It is now of the utmost importance that, in this exceptional situation too, we are able to provide entrepreneurs with fixed-term social security, because the measures taken by the recession in the 1990s cannot be repeated. That's when the entrepreneurs were left alone. Every one of us knows those entrepreneurs who have finished their days or have otherwise been in very difficult situations, and there is that mistrust of the state. What is needed now is for this type of action to go to everyone's faith that, in this very exceptional situation — not because of the economy or the market or anything else — but because we want to protect people and their right to health — this Chamber will also be able to adopt effective and responsible measures quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u20	Mr President! It is important for companies to be able to act agilely and lay off when the need arises, but it is also important for people who are working and who also have to work obligations, in the care sector and in the safety sector to be allowed to work in a safe environment. This weekend I went to the store a few times and did it on purpose in a couple of different places. In one of my convenience stores. Hyvinkää was very well when we went to the store, gloves and gloves. Then, when I went to a few other shops in Hyvinkää and Nurmijärvi, either there is nothing or there is hand sanitizer when we leave the store. I wonder how successful we are now in helping these chains of infection to increase. This lay-off is important for the employer, but it is therefore essential that those who work are protected. We should now take this seriously when somehow it seems that it is still not understood how easily this is spreading. I was there watching the news stream, and there. There is a message from China that we are doing this all wrong here in Europe. In Asian countries, public places must at present have facial and nasal masks for everyone. It does not prevent infection, but it prevents you from spreading the disease. We're all walking around more and less close to each other. When you look in this room, it doesn't even matter a meter, and when we're talking, for example, if I had an interest rate — I can't say with 100% certainty that I don't have one when I haven't been tested, or it wouldn't show — I might be able to spread it here. Perhaps it would be good if we all had nose and mouth shields here. I was thinking that different companies need help, but indeed also the people who will be left there. There has been a good debate here about whether we should intervene in the system of agreements, whether there should be local agreements and various kinds of agreements. These have been discussed for years, and perhaps this crisis situation is not the best place for these huge structural, at least permanent, interpretations. I myself wonder why, if the employers' and employees' partners are now negotiating collective agreements, for example, on joint tables, why would even the workers' organisation deliberately want to extend the time when the negotiations are taking place. Everyone will understand that if the company crashes and there is nothing left in the register, and I do not believe that any of the parties involved will have such a Shicanese negotiation. What is there to the field and to the people when you go and hear people’s messages, however, is a rather hard-handed spirit, and certainly no one wants to hurt one another by force. I think this motion is all right, but I am happy to listen to this debate. I noticed that there are also various transitional provisions that protect workers and, on the one hand, oblige employers and, in a certain way, also on the side of the cooperation law, for example, allow flexibility in the way in which negotiations have already taken place at the time of the entry into force of this law and, on the other hand, allow it to take advantage of those deadlines. It would also be nice to discuss these in their entirety. In addition, the Legal Committee and Parliament will soon be undergoing a change in bankruptcy legislation from the Ministry of Justice, which will make it easier for companies not to go bankrupt so easily, the definition of insolvency will be changed, and I am, of course, looking forward to this, too. Finally, I would say that some of you — I have not seen the facts — hear from the airport that some companies that have had a good cash flow and have been active may not have received any subsidies and support for this situation, and then there have been others who have said that, hey, now it is a nice situation, we are looking for support with them, and they have received it. So I cannot say that this is a fact — I have received this kind of information from people, and these may also be rumours, I would stress. That is why I also send my greetings to the government, that it has been checked that the criteria are consistent and that the focus is on saving healthy businesses, and not that if it has been a month ago, then this would be the place. Here I also hope that all applicants and all workers will be responsible. Let us discuss more and I am happy to hear different positions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u21	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to this fact that the Assembly did indeed object in committee, and this was specifically related to the call for these changes to apply directly to all companies, so to speak, to this issue of compulsory law. At the moment we have the information that the TES coverage in the EK membership alliances is about 90 % at the moment, and this 90 % includes both the TES, which have been agreed in, and the TES, to which there has been no need to make any changes, and it is worth noting that, in addition to this, there will be further negotiations on collective agreements – that is to say, everything has been done and will be done before this law has even entered into force, so let me say that this coverage is already very large. The question here is what are these areas, what would remain here. In committee it came up that, for example, pharmacists were one of these, which was not here. It was a business like that. Of course, knowing this situation, it is certainly not the first area in which this is needed. As I see it, now that an agreement has been reached together and we have all supported it, this demand for a convention is more ideological and principled towards the agreement of these organisations than it would then have any practical significance. That is what I wanted to draw attention to in the whole Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u22	Mr President! It is absolutely excellent that this bill has been brought together quickly between the various players and so that the situation can be influenced. The spread of the Korona virus came as a surprise to all of us. Its seriousness has come as a sort of surprise to us all, and we are actually just taking the first steps of this corona route. We don't know what's going on in two months. Of course, there are forecasts, and we are preparing with very strong measures, which is extremely important. But I would like to look a little further, as Mr Koskinen, as chairman of the Committee on Finance, looked at this matter in a slightly longer perspective: that is, when this corona virus subsides — we all know that this difficulty will be overcome too — we must make sure that all companies, by virtue of our current measures and our future parliamentary decisions, will remain in a state where they will be able to function when the situation begins. It is clear that many companies are faced with overwhelming situations because of this corona virus, but that as many attempts as possible can be made to overcome this crisis into the new boom that will hopefully begin at the end of the year, and that it will be possible for no viable company to stop acting because of this virus, but to enter a new era with renewed strength and still positive prospects. I believe that this is our task, and that is what we must all invest in, and I hope that all the parliamentary groups and all the Members of Parliament will be fully involved in this work, because it is the only option for Finland. If we make the wrong decisions and the companies that work are going down, then we have a model from the early 1990s, when we had to experience this tragedy that a huge number of good companies went down. As Prime Minister Marin himself has said in many speeches, this must not happen. This should be borne in mind, and when a new boom and a new start begins, we should really pay attention in this country to two things: The second is this absurd concentration here in southern Finland, that everyone is towed here and then we are in big trouble. Yes, the development of Finland as a whole should be taken as number one. And the second is to have the Finnish bureaucracy demolished, as much as possible: to dismantle unnecessary bureaucracy, to reduce the regulatory burden so that companies can act, because it is real economic growth that comes through companies. These red tape measures we can manage with even less manning, with less people, but it is important to get as much strength as possible behind business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u23	Mr President! We need a variety of bridges across the crisis. This is one such bridge forward. Thank you very much to the Government and the Committee for your prompt action. It is easy to support the government's proposal because these measures will help employers to adapt quickly to the unexpected situation that we all face. Of course, workers should also be made sure that there are no unreasonable situations. These measures will make it easier for businesses to adapt to the changes in labour needs caused by the epidemic. We reduce the notice period and the consultation period provided for in the Cooperation Act in the event of layoff. We also allow temporary lay-off. We allow the trial period to be dismantled on both productive and economic grounds. These temporary changes will help companies to move forward and secure jobs in the longer term. There has been much talk here that healthy businesses can survive and overcome the acute crisis. Perhaps less attention has been paid to those companies that are not doing so well but could have been able to survive and develop under different circumstances. They can also have a lot of potential for the future. It is also important to recognise this potential. There is a need for a wide range of means to support businesses forward. It is a good thing that the social partners have found each other during the crisis. They reached a good dialogue and quickly produced a package of proposals which are reflected in this government proposal. Finnish Entrepreneurs have also successfully proposed very similar solutions to support decision-making. Thank you to all parties for these solution-oriented proposals. In our neighbouring country, Sweden, the social partners are in constant dialogue and dialogue with each other, including at a time when there is no acute crisis. Labour market organisations must be reformed as the world changes — and the world changes just a leap after this global crisis. For example, there is a need to understand the importance of local reconciliation. Could the culture of viewing together be a lasting influence among all actors? When the corona relaxes, we have to compromise on many, we have to share pain and responsibility together, as has already been well said. Small entrepreneurs are especially close to my heart and can now apply for help through municipalities. Directing aid close to grass-roots level is a very welcome issue. Thank you to Minister Lintilä and his staff for taking this matter forward. I believe that this change will also create new things in business life. Let's not leave the entrepreneurs alone. Let's work together across party lines here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u24	Mr President! A week ago, a legendary writer and sketch artist, Albert Uderzo, died and made a series of Asterix comics. I thought it was great to hear what a representative was like. The Vartiainen, in a way, respected his memory and one of his most legendary cartoons, Asterix and the contentious planter, in which Tullius Intrigius was sent to a small village in Gaul in an effort to cause strife and people against one another. Mr President! If you think that Mr Vartiainen said that the time for talking politics is now, he, in a way, went through the theory put forward by Naomi Klein in the book The Shock Doctrine, the rise of destructive capitalism, and described how neoliberal politics, especially under the guise of crises, are being pushed forward. Mr President! However, it is a good thing that few people in this Chamber have gone along with the mental politics of The Shock Doctrine or Asterix, but we have tried together to find measures that help businesses, help entrepreneurs and help workers in this difficult situation. The fact that companies are now being supported so that healthy businesses can overcome this crisis without unnecessary bankruptcy is important. It is extremely important that small entrepreneurs are supported. There is an opportunity to receive support and, for the first time, without the need to abolish business activity, it is also possible to benefit from unemployment benefit — in fact, self-employed workers for the first time have been taken into account in the conduct of policies — and there has also been a significant rise in the number of employees: the initial days of responsibility have now been removed from those who are to be laid off or made redundant, and the periods in which the earnings-related daily allowance should increase have been shortened. In other words, there has been a wide range of attempts to find solutions in society as a whole, to overcome the common crisis. Mr President! In particular, I would like to raise two issues which, in this situation, raise a great deal of debate and which, in this joint effort, strike that wedge and act as some kind of disputer: Firstly, it should be ensured that the companies that are now supported are not used by companies that are given the opportunity through these fast-track legislation, for example, to lay off in a difficult situation, so that dividends can be distributed and workers laid off at the same time. For example, RedBlack Media has announced at the same time that it will distribute dividends of more than EUR 3 million and lay off approximately 650 employees for three months. If we want to fight together, it cannot be that dividends are shared at the same time and people are laid off or laid off. We must ensure that companies that do not accept social responsibility in this situation and who want to distribute dividends to their owners, despite the fact that society supports them, are not given support. I understand, for example, that the Swedish Parliament's finans have just today been discussing how to limit this to the outside world. It is an important issue for public morality and public acceptance. The second point I would like to raise is that many companies, especially small individual entrepreneurs, have a problem with the fact that income has stopped like a wall, but expenditure does not, because rents run. That's the biggest permanent cost. So now that companies are being supported, the second thing I would like to raise is that there cannot be one group that benefits directly from this aid, that is, the landlords who do not come in for rent, but the support that society, the state, gives to entrepreneurs, is flowing directly to the landlords. State Senate Properties have decided to grant rent reductions of up to 100 per cent, Metsähallitus has decided and the City of Helsinki, to name a few public actors. It must be the case that foreign capital investors, listed companies and institutional investors also come against the companies and entrepreneurs with which income and cash flow have stopped. It cannot be that we are supporting these companies to stand up and that they are potentially flowing directly to foreign owners through listed companies or through venture capital investment. This is the other one. In order for us all to work together on the front, this must also involve the private side, not just that the public side is against the companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u25	Mr President! First of all, this observation about Europe, which has indeed done so in a number of countries — Spain is an example of this that I have used before — is that the landlords have genuinely come up against: halve the rent, i.e. the company pays half of the rent, and the other half is then borne by the landlord. There should also be a broad approach like this in Finland. Mr President! I wanted to draw attention to Mr Vartiainen's heavy speech, which could be called a song of praise for local reconciliation, and at the same time he exorcised into the darkest underworld the Cold War contractual society and its results. If these symbols go, you should remember that the Cold War has actually been mankind’s longest period of peace. This is when the construction of a Finnish contract society was made, the welfare state was built, where the rest of the world takes the lead, in what way a great society can be built with peace, small labour disputes, that is, the lack of industrial battles. And global security policy, too, during the Cold War period, was able to alleviate the confrontation between the great powers, which served the common interest of all of us. Mr Lepomäki and Mr Vartiainen spoke in favour of the local agreement in this situation — that is, in this situation. Let us think about this: if this government bill, which we now have before us here, had gone off with local agreement so drastically to undermine employment security, yes, Mr Vartiainen, we would have total chaos here. In this respect, agreement, collective solidarity agreement, is most reasonable both in a critical situation and in the wider context of building this society forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u26	Mr President! Although Mr Satos' proposal is relatively good and temporary, according to previous agreements it is, in fact, so small that I have to say that I now feel that this is just a gathering of points, and because of that — although the idea of this Satos' proposal is — I cannot personally support it, and it may well be that we in the party are in the same line anyway. But I cannot help but say that there is a little bit of an ideological issue here from the left wing. We would all have to pull the same rope and understand the order in which all these things are handled.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u29	Mr President! First of all, on this motion of the Assembly: After all, it is a question of maximum compulsoryity, which is essentially lacking in contractual freedom. Such a solution is not unique, but quite exceptional in our labour law and would inevitably mean a constitutional review, because at least in part the freedom of contract is protected from the protection of property. This in turn means, of course, more burdensome preparation and regulation than is now the case with this government proposal, the provisional proposal, which has been produced quickly. That would also mean considering regulation against the demands of necessity and proportionality with a very different degree of precision from what is required in this regulation solution that has now been implemented, which could also lead to the whole proposal being destroyed by the failure to meet the criteria of necessity or proportionality. We are talking about a relatively marginal group, possibly a zero number of companies that are suffering from this choice of regulation; that is something we do not know yet. For this reason, it was not considered appropriate at a time when the aim is to have rapid and light handling, rapid and light assistance in the field, to go to a regulatory solution that would inevitably mean a much heavier process. If collective bargaining autonomy is deemed necessary to intervene, it will be a significant change to our rules of the field, and then they will be reforms which will be discussed and carried out in a period of peace, so to speak, when we have the opportunity to have a broad social debate, an appropriate impact assessment and, for example, plenary debates in a full Chamber. Secondly, I would like to comment on this debate on ideologies-free decision-making — there is no such thing. We tend to see decisions that are very close to mainstream and hegemonic, in line with generally accepted thinking, as less political than those motions for solutions that, as it were, are challenging in some way the prevailing thinking. However, it is undisputed that in both of these cases it is always a question of choice, and where there are choices, there are always alternatives and always a policy based, at least in part, on ideologies. A good example of a purely ideological statement was given by Mr Laakso here before me when, immediately after his disapproval of ideological positions, he prioritised the need for help from companies over the need for help from the unemployed. This is a strongly ideological position. It puts us in a situation where we have several different options, one option ahead of the other.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u32	Mr President! As I suggested in my first speech, it is precisely this crisis that brings out an interesting political and political debate, which I do not disapprove of at all. First of all, Mr Arhinmäki's somewhat strange fantasies about neoliberal shock policy: it is no secret that I and a large part of the assembly also exercise greater decision-making power over the workplace. However, Mr Arhinmäki, every change that we are pursuing is a cautious step in the direction of our Scandinavian neighbours. Nothing that I am driving is already in place, in Denmark, Sweden or Norway, in the labour market consultation system. Certainly neither in this Chamber nor anywhere else, I do not think anyone is thinking of Denmark, Sweden and Norway as an example of some neoliberal policy of shock. Maybe we shouldn't get into this, because with such strange claims, it wouldn't even be worth paying the attention of this hall.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u43	Mr President! Could you say that it is quiet when you listen to Mr Vartiainen's vigorous speeches, which actually pick up procedures here to support their own views?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u52	Mr. Speaker! It has been correctly stated here that when the situation is so difficult, it takes a long temper on everyone. It is clear that companies will now urgently need support and, in particular, smaller companies will need more support, and I hope that this will happen, and I will only encourage the government to support them courageously. More direct support should be given to sole entrepreneurs. This issue, which arose here, is just a little miraculous in my opinion. I myself now feel that the coalition has gone to a rather populist shot, as it were, to collect points, even at a rather surprising moment. However, this is temporary legislation, and they must also gain broad support in society. I do not understand the fact that we are going to make a point here, although I am sure that from the point of view of our own supporters, there are some legitimate points. I did not, in itself, disagree with those points recorded by the Assembly in its protest, but I disagree with the argument that they are reasons for going into such an objection and voting on them. Indeed, there is no TES lock that the Coalition Party has now painted here. We should be pleased that the central organisations have been able to work together and act quickly on these lay-offs, adapting them to their own TES.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u56	Mr. Speaker! Mr Tavio rightly referred to this basic question that it was indeed a great achievement that such a recommendation from the social partners was made quickly and has also led to rapid legislative action and, in a way, premature introduction into the labour market. Hopefully, the payment systems will also be quickly made available to the lay-offs, so that they can also receive their income support as unemployment benefit. Indeed, on a global and European scale, Finland’s second response to this corona crisis was the response of the labour market. In Denmark, it was, in a way, an even more incredible achievement that, while the government recognised these exceptional circumstances and took action just over two weeks ago, the labour market had already been prepared to be able, at the same time, to announce these main measures which the social partners recommended and agreed upon among themselves. We now had this four-day gap, but a very good achievement, however, and this must be safeguarded in these future steps. For that local agreement: Representative Myllykoski told us about the connection to the other development of working life that is needed in its development. For example, I consider the proposals made by the STK in its recent local agreement report to be highly feasible. It can be built into a safe way to increase local reconciliation under Finnish conditions. But then, if further decentralisation is to be carried out, we need either a Swedish co-determination system or even a stronger German mitbestimmung system, which includes not only a negotiation at company level but also a strong administrative representation capable of ensuring that employees, employees and employees, can also be seen in the decision-making process there. Our administrative representation, which I myself was doing at the Ministry of Labour at the time, remained modest and has not achieved the significance that was being sought. The same applies to the cooperation law that there will be a lot of development in it once we get out of here in more normal times. This, which is why I criticised the development of labour market systems over the last decade and where Mr Vartiainen was involved, was not so much about this issue of local reconciliation, but about the fact that the employer side has been determined to split up the possibility of centralised solutions or a broader income policy, and yet it was the way in which Finland caught up with Sweden and the other Nordic countries since the late '60s - the tens of percent difference in GDP per capita was achieved, largely through this income policy, through the construction of a determined welfare society. This is the path that will be needed in the future when we have to push Finland back to speed and faster growth after we have been through this, and in that sense such a breaking policy, which Mr Vartiainen seems to represent at least between the lines, is not the way of success. There has been a very healthy debate here, which in itself is not directly related to the matter under discussion, but the situation calls for swift action on the rescue of entrepreneurs, and when these measures, which were implemented through the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, which Parliament demonstrated last week with this billion additional funding, are being made very widely available this week, it must safeguard the very flexibility that is being targeted at the needs of businesses. Among other things, Mr Heinonen has criticised the criteria in the current support models presented so far, which have been based more on innovation funding, conversion of production lines and so on, [TimoHeinonenarvous] Then it has been a little negative that part of the business field has already been actively saying that no company is eligible for this type of loan support. That's not true. For example, many production companies, which have a secure order book but which are now unable to produce, for example, due to the availability of components, can be placed in storage with this loan or can ensure that future production continues when the immediate crisis makes it easier. So there are very different situations, and this kind of extended possibility of obtaining a loan through Finnvera's operations is welcome for a significant part of the company, of course in a slightly larger business field.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u57	Mr President! I should not have taken the floor here, but Mr Kiljunen and Mr Arhinmäki's contributions now made a small speech. They talked about pulling the rope together, which in this situation is very good and almost mandatory — that is a great thing. Arhinmäki raised the issue of Senate real estate, which has freed companies from rents, which is a wonderful activity, but as perhaps by chance did not mention Kojamo, every day later, when the Emergency Act came into force, increased the rents.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u61	Mr President! Kojamo is a good example of the irresponsibility of a number of listed companies, and I have no idea what this has to do with, for example, Mr Kiljunen or the speeches that have been made here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u64	Mr President! I agree that it is certainly necessary for us to meet rent questions on many occasions. I was contacted by a small shoemaker trying to get rent relief from the S Group — not allowed, and it is likely that the business will stop. But at the same time we must remember that we also have a very large number of very small landlords who may also have the situation that this snowball in a certain way moves in that direction. That is why we certainly need different solutions in these situations. Finnish entrepreneurs are very concerned and Finnish employees are also with them, and that is why we should look for the best ways to save Finnish jobs. Mr Koskinen referred to my own speech, in which I read certain criteria. These, Mr Koskinen, relate specifically to the aid applications for the interest rate period, not to any previous development projects, but to the conditions for aid for interest rate support during Prime Minister Marin's government: the development of products and services, the strengthening of skills, wider development needs and reorientation, and, lastly, ‘the grant cannot be used for businesslike activities’. Well, I was contacted by several entrepreneurs when they had visited the Ely website to see what kind of support they could receive. As a result, neither the barber nor many others received any support. Where do they redirect their business, products or development of services? Well, of course, knowledge can be strengthened if decades of experience in haircuts is not enough. They need help specifically in an acute crisis when there is no money in their cash register and there is no money coming. These companies have been doing excellent work a month ago, until the day the interest rate hit and they practically ran out of customers. There is a need for direct aid, for direct aid, and then the question of the vast majority is precisely the payment of rents, the payment of various charges and also the compulsory other costs, of which the share of electricity is very high at the moment. I hope that the government will also be able to consider the question of whether, on the electricity side, it would be possible to act on a temporary basis on the part of the government. Mr President! Unfortunately, it seems that there is no longer any desire to involve everyone in the decision-making process of the corona crisis in this Chamber, especially with regard to the left. It is worrying if the opposition is not involved in the preparations for the COVID-19 crisis and one opposition party is treated in this way as we have heard in this Chamber today. I wish there was more to do together. We should jointly prepare supplementary budgets, for example. We would have every chance of finding better solutions together than by believing that all wisdom lives in five chairmen of the government party. Mr President! Representative Nurminen spoke about the compulsory law and attached the word forced law to the assembly. I looked at the recent laws of Prime Minister Marin’s government — they are practically all coercive laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u66	Irade the Talman! Indeed, this crisis has progressed very quickly. I myself have at least been pleased that this has been dealt with quite parliamentaryly. This is where all the groups have been involved in many meetings at the Regent House. The situation picture has been the same. This challenge has been discussed jointly, and the opposition's views in the Committee on Budgets were also well reflected in the changes to the amending budget. That, yes, on this broad front, we are trying to face this challenge. As far as this is concerned, it is, of course, good that the social partners reached agreement on a recommendation on the basis of which we are now deciding. It is also true, however, that once this pit has been crossed, the same flexibility and consensus will be needed thereafter. There's no need to go anywhere. In a way, despite this external shock, the way up is difficult, even after these actual measures of control caused by the virus. There's been talk of a local settlement here. It is found in the Government Programme and it is all the more important to move forward with it now that these immediate measures are moving forward and, of course, what it understands, we certainly have quite a lot of views in this Chamber. I personally believe that there is a good chance of an agreement at the local workplace. This compares the situation in Finland and Sweden. A key issue that is different from Finland in Sweden may be the idea that we are all in the same boat, that both employers and employees are pursuing the same thing. Of course, there is also a stronger worker’s position in decision-making, and it should of course be part of the Finnish solution. It may not be fruitful to consider — referring to old attempts to get ahead with local reconciliation — the failures and whose fault each failure has been in due course. The crisis will require strong support measures, and it may be appropriate to consider whether they affect an entrepreneur, an employee, an unemployed person or a company. Everyone needs a piece. It's bound to be like this. If you support an entrepreneur, you also have to assume that there are fewer unemployed people. I also believe that the majority of companies feel that those employed, those workers, are the most important capital of the company they want to hold on to as long as they can. We have now agreed on a rather large package last week, and it is of course essential that it is targeted correctly. It has been discussed whether it is targeted at projects or normal activities, and indeed it must be targeted in practice at both. Companies are experiencing a pressing liquidity crisis and working capital is needed. Few companies will then heat up if it is targeted at projects and development projects. It does not get a quick response, it does not get quick help. We must also have tools to strengthen working capital, to improve liquidity. It can happen through Business Finland or through someone else. The question has been raised as to whether VAT should be returned in line with the Swedish model — it might be a good way here too. However, these decisions are urgent. Many companies only have money in the cash register for a few weeks, and the responsibility to try to help them in this situation lies here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u67	Mr President! There has been much talk here of the difficulties caused by the corona virus for businesses, including the payment of rents and other acute problems. I have also received many of these messages myself, and I must say that perhaps in the last couple of weeks the majority of working time has gone to them, and that is something I am happy to do. Similarly, there has been an interesting discussion of the principle of local agreement here, but I was not going to go to that either, and I thought I would stick to this speech only in the draft law in question, and I would like to comment mainly on the three speeches that have been made here. Mr Saramo, who is still in the Chamber, and Mr Tavio, who apparently is not at least at the moment, accused us of the fact that the Coalition Party is here to collect points from its own supporters. This is an interesting argument, first of all, because the coalition is merely driving forward what the social partners have decided among themselves, so that it can be achieved in all areas. I would like to ask Mr Saramo and Mr Tavio: when you are called, for example, by an employer in the private civil service sector, in which the workers' union has not approved this agreement, or by an employer in ERTO — because ERTO has not even agreed to negotiate on this issue — is your answer to those entrepreneurs in difficulty who may even have been forced to drive it down because of this corona virus, that do not worry, the assembly is simply collecting points? Is this really your message? This is a serious question that does not concern everyone and I think that this should be a concern for everyone. Mr President! Then another point which I would like to say in particular to Mr Kontula, who, as chairman of the committee, knows this very well: it is true that if this had been done in this way as proposed by the Assembly — which, I understand, was originally the idea of the whole government, at least as far as the message from the Ministry of Finance, including the Ministry of Finance, has been said in the past, and now I understand that this is a matter for everyone — it would certainly have required a round of the Constitutional Committee. But is it really the case that if the Constitutional Committee has already agreed that restaurants and cafés will be closed in this country, and the Constitutional Committee has already agreed that this virus will lead to the isolation of Uusimaa, then it would have been impossible for the Constitutional Committee to exceed the threshold that, at this stage, it would be possible to go beyond collective agreements by law on a fixed-term basis in the face of this crisis? This seems like an incomprehensible idea, and it does not come to mind like a couple of constitutional experts who could probably end up doing this. So we should see the forest from the trees now. It is a good thing, and I would like to acknowledge this in the direction of the Ay movement that the overwhelming majority has dealt with this issue quickly in TES. According to the expert consultation received by the committee, this coverage is at 80%, and according to the final information I have, it is close to 90%. Nevertheless, there is a certain number that are excluded and some of them would be absolutely necessary for this to be applied in this exceptional situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u68	Mr President! In his speech just now, Mr Satonen expressed his regret at the fact that the assembly was accused of collecting points on this issue. Some people here have also spoken that there is a clear policy here. Representative Heinonen, in turn, said earlier that the government does not want everyone involved. Someone might say the other way around that the Coalition Party does not want to keep everyone involved, because the Coalition Party excludes itself from this process. This is the particular situation that we, this Chamber, have been genuinely breathing in the same direction in this crisis. We have supported the government in exceptional measures, as is the case with this bill, which is being viewed as one of the clear exceptional temporary measures. However, Mr President, we are voting here every time. Last week we had a vote on the amending budget, on which the Coalition Party said that the government listened to us and took our wishes into account and even took precedence over what the original draft of the Convention was and yet the assembly made us vote. And once again, we have an issue here where we see that we are going to take a big, big step, and the coalition is working on this so that we can vote. In this regard, the president of the Bureau pointed out, among other things, that the least that would have happened would have been the least if this contribution from the Assembly were taken seriously, that this process would be delayed. We would be forced to listen to the Constitutional Committee and its experts, so that we would not be able to act here either. Why does the Coalition Party want to exclude itself from this joint resolution?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u71	Mr President! As far as I am concerned, I would like to see that the Assembly is completely sincere here and is genuinely seeking to promote common issues and this debate in particular. I feel that this is perhaps this sort of self-invitation process, in which the opposition party also tries to get into this corona debate and in these decisions in one way or another and at the same time also to get the debate done in this Chamber. That is absolutely right, and it is absolutely desirable. There is a great deal of agreement on this issue in the trio, as has been said many times, and it has progressed quite well. What I am concerned about, in fact, is if the assembly were not sincere on this issue, but was now genuinely seeking to have such an instrumental debate on behalf of some organizations or actors in this Chamber about what will happen when we start to think that this corona crisis will come out. There are two weighty things in this reflection. If we come out so that the economy can grow back as quickly as possible, there are two problems. First of all, now that this proposal is read between the lines, it could be increased so that the worst cost of it would be borne by the disadvantaged, that is to say the worker, in this respect, if we were to leave at this stage in any way to allow this to happen as a precedent. And then the economy could be grown so that it would vaccinate the environment and nature, because now we need to grow faster than others, so that we can produce products and services for export and then to Finnish internal demand. If we start thinking like this, that is to say, we have to rush and quickly get the economy up at almost all costs, we can actually end up in a situation that is not in the best interests of the Finnish people, not necessarily the environment or the Finnish economy. I see that in this room and in the trio, and also by the best Finnish thinkers, we now need to come together to think about a common strategy, a little like open source in the computer industry. Hundreds and hundreds of distance meetings where Finnish economic thinkers and other thinkers sit together to think about how we come out of this crisis so that it would not overtax an ordinary, disadvantaged person who wants to return to the labour market, now that he is laid off or unemployed, and at the same time would not over-vaccinate the environment. This out of the crisis group must be set up as quickly as possible and these meetings must be carried out, and I think it is a place where the economic thinking of the coalition should be strongly involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u72	Mr President! There have been very different aspects here, and we will certainly return to the aims and ideologies of the various parties. Which one of us is to tell you which one of them is the best — I think everyone is sincerely seeking good results from their own side, hopefully at least, but it is true that we have different values and different priorities in the midst of this crisis. I personally believe that local reconciliation, for example, is not always an advantage for an employee, because if you are able to combine your negotiating power more widely, then you are in a better position than you are as a single person, and it is not necessarily in the interests of an individual worker, especially in a crisis such as this, when there is a very challenging situation in which to get potential jobs, and people are, of course, in a more difficult position. Unfortunately, as we know, a huge number of people are already laid off and unemployed. It is also good to say that, when these different priorities are identified in this economic debate and when we certainly do not get direct answers to these questions from our ministries, from the Ministry of Economic Affairs or from the VM, the same situation also applies to this corona crisis in the wider context. Nor, from a health point of view, do we get direct answers from anyone, but it is important for us to use all the best expertise, not just from our own ministries, but from other sources, from international researchers and from other countries. Here, too, responsibility lies only in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u73	Mr President! I shall try to answer Mr Satos' question first of all: what would have happened if we had gone on the road to the Convention and the draft law had ended up in the Constitutional Committee — whether that was not the case? Mr Satonen wondered that now that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has given the green light to many very heavy restrictions on fundamental rights in this exceptional situation, would this not have gone through too? Well, I am not an expert on the Constitution and I am not able to say what solution the Constitutional Committee has reached here, but as a member of the Constitutional Committee for some five years, I would point out that the threshold for something has not been reduced as to what has been decided on another matter. Furthermore, every fundamental rights exception to the Constitutional Committee makes a specific decision on necessity and proportionality, and if any measure can be taken without interference with the Constitution, as with lighter equipment, then the conditions of necessity and proportionality are not met. In this case, we do not yet know exactly how comprehensive the consequences of this bill will be as a result of the amendment of collective agreements, but we already know that it is quite comprehensive. Let's talk about maybe 90% already. It is possible that there will be a situation where no company will suffer from this option. In this situation, it might be quite difficult to justify why, instead of a lighter route that respects fundamental rights, we should choose another route which is considerably heavier if we can achieve the same or more or less the same outcome. That is my assessment of this and, to a large extent, my view, the logic of the ministry in this idea has passed, but I would like to stress that I am not an expert in the Constitution. Mr Heinonen was saddened a little earlier that the opposition was now being left on the sidelines of this debate, and in this he was concerned, in particular, about the possibility for the assembly to participate in the decision-making process. To that I would say that in our committee, in which this draft law has been discussed, we have tried in a good spirit to involve everyone, both members of the opposition and the government, even in the way that Mr Satone's opposition was filling in for me as chairman when I was unable to attend.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u76	Mr. Speaker! First of all, when this proposal has already been carefully plowed through here and sown and hopefully some Finnish jobs can be saved through these proposals, I am not going to take the floor, but there is such an interesting and multigenerational debate here that perhaps I would like to comment on a few points from the point of view of the city centre. First of all, I agree with many of the speakers who have spoken here that, I hope, there will now be a message from this Chamber that the landlords who have market power — the big institutional landlords, whether they are Finnish pension companies, international real estate investment companies, operators who, however, have very chubby balance sheets compared to individual specialists or restaurant entrepreneurs — would now bear social responsibility and then see the damage to our business life and how many jobs will be destroyed if the rents are not now being used for restaurants and shopping centres. I would also like to make this appeal on my own behalf that we should now react and that everyone should now take responsibility. The banks must also act responsibly now that Finnvera has the so-called ‘banks-sharing’ method and maintain the position ofresponsible banks and insurance companies,how to payremunerationremunerationsforinterrupturinginsurance,andremainresponsible for large-scale property investors,large-scale landlords. According to the feedback I have received from that business field, small landlords will be flexible, just such individuals or, for example, small municipalities, but now also institutional, large investors must be able to be flexible. Then, President, I would like to take this opportunity to thank our so-called partners, the social partners, employers and the trade union movement, for being able to achieve such a Finnish labour market interest rate agreement very quickly. I venture to guess that this is not the first labour market interest rate agreement that is needed. There is certainly a need for flexibility and reconciliation between employers and workers in the labour market, so that businesses and jobs can be saved, but I would like to thank both the Ay movement and employers for bringing such a package here. Of course we make the laws. It's obvious now. There is no point in starting any constitution or democracy here for any intelligent MP to teach, but it is quite clear that Finland is a contractual society. The country must be built by harmony, by cooperation, and in a crisis a small nation must be united. Thank you for giving us a vision of the labour market and the government has made a proposal, and now we are adopting this solution here today. There has been a very ideological debate here, President. It has come to feel that Adam Smith and Karl Marx and all the other great social philosophers have come to life, and this conflict of work and capital has been noticeable here in a rather loose parliament, where there are not so many people present. [Department: What are you? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u78	Mr President! Congressman Kiljunen said that the Coalition Party shut itself out by presenting an alternative. I hope you weren't serious when you said this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u81	The matter shall be suspended and shall be resumed after 15 minutes when the vote on the draft statement is taken. The session will resume at 4:25 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u82	We shall now proceed to the part-session adjourned at 4:08 p.m. In the debate, Mr Satonen, supported by Mr Heinonen, has tabled a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u83	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u84	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u85	Mr President! The isolation of Uusimaa could have been too slow in this way. We had this debate last week in Parliament and we continue to do so, and in that sense I find it problematic that the information about the bulkheads in Uusimaa was made available in good time, and then a very large number of people left Uusimaa. It is possible that the situation is emerging that this isolation in the end game can even accomplish what it was doing to narrow it down, that is, faster than the spread of the disease to other parts of New Zealand. I myself would have seen the need for this decision to be taken through the faster procedure of the emergency laws, where this isolation would have been carried out and subsequently checked. This would avoid caravans from Uusimaa, through Mäntsälä and through Hämeenlinna and many others, towards other Finland at the end of last week. We will soon see whether this slower decision-making system was even detrimental to the outcome. Today I looked at the news in the evening newspaper about what happened in the morning rush, when these checkpoints were in use, and less than 15,000 cars had been stopped in the morning rush and 24 of them turned back, or 0.17 percent of the cars were turned back. Everyone else had a reason for the police to cross that border of Uusimaa. Of course, you might well ask how much resources are involved in monitoring such a small group of converts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u88	Mr President! It is a good thing that the government is creating these measures quickly, so that we can slow down the spread of this corona virus. It will certainly not be possible to prevent it completely, but it will be possible to slow down very strongly if we continue along this path. Sunday’s statistics were that 20,000 vehicles crossed the Uusimaa border, and, as Mr Heinonen said, the number that turned them back was not very significant even then — of course, on Sunday it was ten times as many as on Monday. At this stage, it would be good to ask what this will achieve in the end. However, when it is known that people come from Pirkanmaa to work here in the capital region and then here, for example, on a construction site, they may be exposed to infections, then will they not take it away after the end of the week when they return from here? Here was a good observation on Mr Mäenpää, who sent us all an e-mail about the feedback of someone who has not yet gone down the road of restricting the spread of this infection in the workplace. For example, the building industry comes to work in the morning and everyone goes to the same dressing room, 20 people go there to change into work clothes, and then go together to the same elevator, possibly and then to the same break house to eat and use the same microwaves, and then, over the day, they encounter each other several times. If one is infected, it often means that at least half or almost all are infected during this week. It is extremely regrettable that no further attention has been paid to these issues. Fortunately, we now have more information about the sensitivity of this infection to the world. When it is known that this virus can be transmitted as an aerosol through the air, for example, through my speech, for example, if I have an infection, my speech, along with time, produces such aerosols, which, in time, can float up to Mr. Kiljunen during this meeting. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call] Above all, from the point of view of food supply — we all have to go to shops — it is totally unacceptable that shops can still go there with unwashed hands and without masks to shop. If everyone wore masks in this country, then we would not spread that infection to others. Now, of course, the situation is that those who have access to masks, N95 or better, will be able to protect themselves, but not everyone will be able to do so. It is a good thing that these protective equipment will also be offered to all the retail chains gradually and, as a result, people will start to do so. Today it was reported that in Austria, for example, there is no business in the grocery trade unless there is a mask on. I would like and would like to see such measures taken by the government. This is what we will have to return to when this major epidemic period is over, if we want to return to normal everyday life, bring people together, go to school, go to places where we are closely together. These are what we will have to use until the vaccine is invented or the drugs have been found for this disease. I would like to make one more observation about China, where there is a great deal of experience in wrestling with this virus in the Wuhan province and elsewhere: today it was mentioned in the news that the Director-General of the Chinese CDC warned Europe that it is naive not to wear protective equipment for all citizens, such as these masks. We know that it alone will not help if one or two wear those masks, but then if everyone does, it will reduce the risk of infection. Of course, it is difficult to get them for everyone in this situation, but that is what we should be aiming for, because soon the United States, Russia, India, many countries will buy out the productions that exist on the world market. This has now been seen in the fact that, for example, breathing masks are very difficult to get into the United States, what the news is reading — let alone how easy it is for us to get if the place comes that we need to increase their number. Mr President! Nevertheless, I would like to thank the government and the ministers for your good and hard work on combating this virus. The Finns of Peru are here to support this, but we also want to tighten up a little, and in that sense I would like you to accept the benefits, which also comes from outside the experts of the THL. Of course we trust THL, but, unfortunately, THL has come a little behind in many respects, and I would rather listen to the advice and admonitions of the International Organization of WHO.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u89	Mr President! In tonight's Evening Sanomat Pekka Isotalus, a professor of speech communication at the University of Tampere, gave the country's government a rating of "excellent". In particular, he commends the Prime Minister and the fact that the government has played as a team, and in this same interview he also states that this is not a time for tactics or brawling policies. I must say, Mr President, that when you listened to Mr Heino and the way in which he was horrifying the closure of the Uusimaa border, it was because there were so few drivers who had been turned away from it — it was a pity that the representative Heinonen now left the Chamber and did not remain to listen to this debate — and I would have liked to say to him in person here in the Chamber that it is not a good sign. Once we've put tight old men and there's police at the border, the wise Finn knows that there's no reason to go there and drive and disturb the important work of the police.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u92	Mr President! All measures have certainly been necessary, and despite the inconvenience, people have taken this restriction on the movement of Uusimaa quite reasonably well. Of course, once this measure has been introduced, it will be important to ensure that there are no additional risks of infection, and I think it would be good to consider how to get this checkpoint to work without physical contact. After all, when there are people at the checkpoint who check these papers they meet a great deal of people, and certainly it cannot be avoided that there is also a risk of infection. If, for example, we could get a sticker on the car or some other arrangement so that we could just show those papers through the glass, then, of course, such problems would be eliminated. Perhaps also a slightly simpler and smarter method of identifying these vehicles passing through the checkpoint would facilitate both traffic flow and reduced risk of infection. Now, of course, an epidemic has already been detected elsewhere in Finland, and it would also be important to consider traffic between Sweden and Finland, for example. It has become questions for people who work for Sweden and then return to Finland, for example in the Lapland region, whether there are risks that should now be taken into account at this stage. Otherwise, it may not be worth considering such limitation plans very far if it leaks badly. I believe that this measure has already had a major impact in itself, because not everyone is going there to try whether or not to move from New Zealand. People have taken this seriously. Now, of course, the next steps need to be considered. Mobility in different countries has been restricted by various means, and this, which is now related to the movement between Uusimaa and the rest of Finland, is of course only part of the solution. What would be the most effective way of doing so, and whether it is still more intelligent to identify where mobility is worth restricting, are certainly the key issues on which to work. In particular, the movement or immobility of the infected and those who have been exposed is extremely important, so that we do not need to take measures at some point in time when we hope to think about how to move forward from this situation. It is now known that this next week will show whether our intensive care is going to last — possibly seen here when the epidemic is progressing, however, so that the incubation period is quite long. And now, as Mr Guzenina mentioned, young people and people of all ages must be aware of their responsibilities, and perhaps the knowledge that, unfortunately, young people are not protected from this epidemic and that young people too have unfortunately died from this virus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u93	Mr President! Today, at least for my part, the crossing of the Uusimaa border went rather smoothly: the truck traffic was steered straight through the other lane and the passenger traffic into the other lane, where the reason for crossing the border was then checked. But it has to be said that both the border controls in Uusimaa and the handling of this matter in this Chamber still seem like a bad nightmare, in which I never thought that Finland would be. However, restrictions on movement have been made in order to reduce coronavirus infections and slow down the spread of the epidemic, and they are important, both nightmares and sounds. Uusimaa is ahead of the rest of the country in its viral infections, but we from other parts of the country should not be lulled by the fact that: The border of Uusimaa makes the rest of Finland a birdhouse — it does not. In other parts of Finland, too, there is a strong need to follow the recommendations made by the Government on non-essential movement, and this message must also strongly move forward from this Parliament, as we are now dealing with this border issue. In other words, although we are currently lagging behind in the development of Uusimaa’s disease elsewhere in Finland, it is vital that we avoid social contact in every way in the rest of Finland. In this way, we will have an impact on the fact that the development of infection is slower than it has been in Uusimaa, and it will always provide us with better opportunities to cope with future care needs and to protect people's health and life. The right to free movement is a fundamental human right, and it is understandable that restricting it in various ways can be a source of annoyance. However, we are not now protecting ourselves with restrictions, but our elderly and the sick, and the disease is not easy for the middle-aged either, but younger ones of us may also need intensive care to survive, and that is why the fundamental right of every person to life should now be preserved in every way possible. The spread of the virus in other parts of Finland must therefore be prevented by its own measures. The border of Uusimaa slows down the spread of the disease but does not prevent it from occurring later in the rest of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u94	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the government for these excellent measures that are currently being taken to combat the corona virus. Mobility restrictions are absolutely necessary. But I've been worried about myself right now. Under the restrictions on the movement of Uusimaa, although the Defence Forces have a good rotation over there for military vacations, the garrisons are still moving to other parts of Finland and then from other parts of Finland to New Zealand. I have been working on this, and it is good that the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence are prepared to re-evaluate this too at a rapid pace. In my own country of Lapland, however, you are concerned about that commuting to the Swedish side. It is not restricted, because it has been seen, of course, as necessary that as long as we can guarantee people a livelihood, its government will also do so, but now that we have indications that Sweden will be there. Some of these infections have come to Lapland, and it is absolutely essential that this issue too be closely monitored and then conclusions are drawn on the basis of information as to whether it is also necessary to limit commuting at some point. It is a tough decision, culturally and economically, when we close the borders, and it must now also be mentioned, from the point of view of Lappish culture, that if this situation continues over the summer, then the Lapps would then not be able to talk to those borderers on boats to row the salmon, not at Teno or on the River Tornio. After all, where the bottom line runs along the deepest banks, and if there were to be and if there were to be a border crossing, it would, as this situation persists, commit a state border crime, and of course no one can be encouraged to do so. I hope that this situation will come to an end before then. In his own speech, Mr Heinonen indeed raised these resources in the isolation of Uusimaa, and indeed this difficult decision is mainly due to — and I am disappointed — the fact that some citizens simply do not believe the good recommendations of the government. That is unfortunate, and then we will have to take tough measures. The government has also clearly stated that it has the capacity to assess whether further restrictive measures are needed and, if necessary, I personally believe that, in addition to the isolation of Uusimaa, it is entirely possible to close down, for example: The Province of Lapland or other provinces of Northern Finland, because now it seems that no one else has been moved here The new country or the south, on the contrary, has started northwards, which will then also pose challenges for the sustainability of the health system. At this point, I would like to appeal to every tourist who is there at the moment in Lapland, or anyone who is still considering leaving these plans, and if you are there, then go back to your homeland. It is the best thing that can be done to safeguard public health and also to prevent the spread of this corona virus. I would like to thank Mr Guzenina and Mr Salo for their excellent contributions. I too fully agree that the state cannot dictate to the citizens every thing that needs to be done. We must stress that individuals also have a responsibility in such an exceptional situation to ensure that all possible means can be used to slow down the spread of this corona virus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u95	Mr President! I shall try not to repeat the good speeches made by the representatives here. This situation has already been well explained here and supported by this decision. I drove myself through that line today, and it was very flexible. The reason, of course, is what Mr Guzenina said here, that smart people have already realised what should be done. It is not a measure of how many of them would now have to be turned away. After all, this is one measure among the many measures aimed at the same objective of reducing human contact. I'm not going to list them all. The Prime Minister listed them here in connection with a presentation last week. As far as this is concerned, I would like to say that in order to reduce the number of contacts in this restaurant I was about to end my patience when I calculated that it needed nine different stages from the one week ago on Monday, when the management of the government arranged it. It was then discussed on Tuesday in the government, quickly brought to this plenary session, followed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, again by the plenary session, Saturday by the plenary session, today by a regulation, and then we will carry out an ex post check. This is the way it should be in a democracy, but it did take a surprisingly long time to take account of exceptional circumstances. This decision, which has now been taken, took place more quickly, and that is good. It is certainly possible to point out quite briefly what this picture of the situation is aimed at, of course, by reducing traffic between Uusimaa and the rest of Finland. At the moment, in light of this morning's information, we have 143 patients in hospital. I'm comparing it to a week ago when it was 50. There are 49 patients in ICU this morning, a week ago there were 13. The death to this disease is now 13; a week ago there was one. So, of course, we are in a clear upturn now with regard to this disease. It is justified that a different approach is followed in Uusimaa and elsewhere in Finland, as the corona virus epidemic in Uusimaa is four times more common in relation to the population. For example, in Uusimaa, 50 cases of infection per 100,000 inhabitants have been found, and next door in Varsinais-Suomi, where I come from, per 100,000 to 12. Now the big challenge is that there are so many infections in Uusimaa, what is next to be done in Uusimaa. I myself have tried to keep my role clear — I am here now as legislator, and the most important thing is that we legislate and that they are well prepared and then we decide on additional resources. I am not going to go to that operational side, although there is a link between the profession and previous work experience. One thing I want to say here, and it is something that this weekend became very important to me. I had access to a study of this corona virus epidemic involving the cruise ship that was in Japan. In that isolated community, all 3,700 people were examined, both passengers and staff, who know that there were 712 infections, and in the aftermath ten of them have died, that is, the frightening word, so-called lethality, has been 1.2%. The most important thing now, apart from what we have already done and what we may have to do more, is to increase the number of these tests. It has also been done. Today, 21,000 Finns had been tested. That's very much. It is in line with the situation in South Korea last week, when 200,000 had been tested, even though we are 18 days behind them on this epidemic. Now they have tested 350,000 inhabitants, and we would have that equivalent day in 18 days’ time around April 10. I'm sure we'll have more than 35,000 tested then. So test, test, test, and then those who have been infected isolate, isolate, isolate, isolate, because that's what we're really doing to narrow this down. Hospitals are already facing a tough challenge, and in the coming weeks an even tougher challenge will be faced. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u96	Mr President! In the midst of this crisis, it is clear that the more effective we act, the more lives we save. In addition to speed, the other side of efficiency is, of course, targeting and considering actions, and I think last week is a good sign that, when rapid action is needed, the government and Parliament together will be able and will be able to do so very quickly in challenging circumstances to regulate new legislation. On Friday day, we were already on the road with the concrete pigs waiting for the closure of Uusimaa to be bludgeoned here, and then, when midnight arrived, the border was closed. This is a tough move, but I think that it has been quite effective since this weekend. Of course, on the weekend, travel is usually more leisure-time, and we have now seen a reduction of about 80% in traffic. Even during this first weekday, the decrease has been limited, depending on the time and place, to 50, 60 or 70 per cent, i.e. a significant reduction in traffic from Uusimaa and Uusimaa. In the past, concerns were raised about how, for example, transport entrepreneurs are doing. After all, the police have always arranged separate lanes for transport in places where it has only been possible in transport, based on news from the Helsingin Sanomat and police information, and surely these possibilities will always be sought when the next day comes. And when there has also been great concern about how to check people's travels, according to my information, the police are currently developing the possibility automatically based on the registration number to check who is involved and what the person is doing, so that there is no need to take the risk of close contact, nor will it take the same time for these checks to be carried out. All in all, however, the fact that so many of these solutions have been found and are being promoted is, in my view, an indication that there is a real authority in the everyday world with the ability and will to find more flexible means and to find ways of making the most of this exceptional lock. At the same time, many people, when they have seen the queues of today, may be considering in a new way how necessary it is to move across that border, whether it might be possible to do it at some other time, perhaps using another method, for example, to carry out their work or other tasks — to work remotely or otherwise. So now we have seen the first day, and I do have every credit, that in the course of the week they will find even better ways of making things even better in the future than they are today. Indeed, the debate is now on this more precise implementation regulation of the Government on restrictions on movement, which determines exactly who is allowed to go, who is not allowed to go, and this Parliament is now carrying out an ex-post check, as is the case with the Emergency Act, so we are now weighing and considering how fundamental rights are to be realised here. In fact, when we have already had a very extensive debate on this matter in the Constitutional Committee last week, I personally believe that, as a non-legal, there is a very serious balance between the fact that, on the one hand, everyone's right to life and essential health services — that is now the basic starting point of the emergency law during this pandemic — and, on the other hand, there must be no justification for limiting people's activities, such as the exercise of duties, studying, caring for family members — and, on the other hand, it must be taken into account, of course, even the behaviour of family members — and, on the other hand, mobility also because of social obligations such as military service. In relation to last week's debate, this implementing regulation has indeed taken into account the fact that military service is a reason to move from one side of the border to another, and, as has been pointed out here before, this consideration is being made, above all, in the garrison. Of course, it is a strong credit that now that it is possible to weigh to what extent and during what time they let some on vacations, it is really responsible and not to isolate young people from their families unnecessarily but, at the same time, in the most effective way, to prevent the spread of the epidemic. This will, of course, be emphasised under the circumstances of the Emergency Act: We are here to provide the framework on which the authorities will ultimately decide how to exercise their powers only within the limits that are absolutely necessary. This comes from Section 4 of the Emergency Act. It is really stressed that only what is necessary must be done, no more, but no less. That is why it has been good to see that the authorities of this responsibility carry it carefully and carefully around Finland — looking for the best solutions but, on the other hand, insist that it is now the most fundamental fundamental right, the right to life, that is, the right to life. The credit is high that this continuous development of operations keeps the day-to-day business smooth but at the same time ensures that the pandemic does not spread.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u97	Mr President! Freedom of movement is one of the fundamental rights that must be restricted to a particularly high threshold. However, the health authorities' recommendation is clear and it was necessary to close the borders of Uusimaa in order to control the spread of the corona virus. Parliament has already given its blessing to this section of the Emergency Act. We can now see, as Mrs Suomela has just described, that this measure has made a significant contribution and has reduced traffic considerably, and hopefully also reduces infection, which is of course the purpose of this measure. In this exceptional situation, these prohibitions and restrictions are important and acceptable in a timely manner and also when they are dismantled. However, we must be extremely careful not to unduly restrict the fundamental rights of people. Nor can we emphasize enough people's own responsibilities. None of these restrictions would work if we continued to have normal contact with people under these circumstances, as the virus is already in Finland and possibly spreads outside Uusimaa and Uusimaa already at the moment. Fortunately, people have already significantly changed their behaviour — it can be seen on the streets and in public places. But there is still room for improvement, and that too must be said — the seriousness of the situation is unfortunately not clear to everyone. Thank you to those who have already done so and who have significantly changed their daily lives to protect other people. I would also like to draw attention to the situation on our western border in northern Finland, which is, I believe, the major issues that will follow. When further commuting between Finland and Sweden is allowed and traffic across this border takes place in both directions, it poses a risk of spreading the disease from Sweden to Finland and, of course, the other way around. There are about a thousand people in traffic every day. Business travel between Estonia and Finland has already been banned more than a week ago. It is true that the situation is a little different at the Swedish border, because there may be one and the same community on both sides of the border, even families on both sides of the border. However, in this situation, the risk of infection arises, especially since we know that Sweden and Finland have a quite different strategy for combating the corona virus, and it has already been estimated that cross-border transmissions have taken place. In northern Sweden, there are about twice as many infections as in Finland, relative to the number. In northern Finland, the disease has been well contained — the restrictions imposed by the government have worked. We do not want Sweden to see the consequences of much more permissive policies leak across the border to Finland. Let us hope that this too will soon be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u98	Mr President! The implementing regulation restricting the movement of the government now comes to Parliament for an ex post check. On Saturday, my colleague and I drove north towards home. The garrisons controlled traffic, and the police politely checked our rights and firmly directed us forward. There's been more traffic at the border today. The restrictive measures have worked quite well and the citizens have been obedient to the constraints. They understand the importance of the restriction that we prevent and slow down the spread of the disease so that intensive care is sufficient and other seriously ill people can be treated. It is a good thing that restrictions on mobility take into account, for example, study, military service and other statutory tasks, social positions of trust, the pursuit of business and work, where teleworking is not possible, so that the wheels of society rotate. It is a good thing that restrictions on movement also take into account the need for care, death or the risk of death for the next of kin. During this crisis, other than the corona will also die. It is important that a loved one gets across the limit to a loved one living elsewhere at the end of the hospice, when it is time to say goodbye, say good-bye and say good-bye. Of course, this must be done responsibly and with caution in relation to the spread of the corona. Mr President! The Convention on the Rights of the Child is also in force under exceptional circumstances. It is therefore justified that the right to visit a child should allow a parent to move across the Uusimaa border. A child also needs a parent living beyond the border during restrictions on movement. It is important that we consider the children. Following this referral debate, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will assess whether restrictions on movement in the current situation are necessary and proportionate to the objective in the light of fundamental rights and human rights treaties. Restrictions must be proportionate to the right of people to live. Trust Finnish Health and Welfare Institute experts who work closely with universities. Let's give them our support. They are constantly building a picture of the situation for us, gathering information about situations in different countries and studies conducted in Finland. For example, in recent times people of different ages have been studying their dealings with one another. It is quite different from many other countries. We are also lucky to be a predominantly sparsely populated country, where many live in their own privacy in the middle of nature. It's the only way to protect us from the epidemic. We have to keep our heads cold as decision-makers and act in a timely manner. We should not go after every scream but learn from studies and situation pictures in this serious situation and apply it to these Finnish circumstances. Representative Lindén described the situation this morning. The situation is serious and it is constantly evolving. Anticipating and acting as planned is needed. Let us all be responsible for our part. It's about protecting life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u99	Mr President! The world is certainly changing fast today. Pandemics and control measures are progressing so fast that the situation a week ago seems to be a distant past. At least one thing we can learn from this is that in a week's time we may be doing things we cannot imagine now. It is not a long time in weeks when the Prime Minister said that Finland leaves the spectacles to others. Since then, spectacles by others have been repeated one by one: a state of emergency, closed schools and restaurants, closed borders and isolated Uusimaa. I understand that these decisions are not easy. They are certain to cause economic damage, while their necessity is difficult to predict with certainty, as well as their benefits and effectiveness. What is particularly paradoxical is that if action is taken, someone may say afterwards that it would not have been necessary. The only thing that is politically certain, then, is that the government will get its mark cleaned up and the reasons for the failures. The position is not enviable, but the government is about to take responsibility. In good times, taking responsibility can be euphemism for the opportunity to share all the fun, but in bad times it literally means taking responsibility. The responsibility cannot be outsourced to THL, Finavia, entrepreneurs or ordinary citizens, but the government must dare to take decisions and assume responsibility for them. Mr President! Finland is not a special case, although Finns often tend to think so. The plague knows no boundaries, but it follows the same laws as we do elsewhere. Finland’s advantage is that the epidemic has started here later than in southern and central Europe. We have the opportunity to learn from the mistakes and successes of others. At the same time, one must understand that if you do the same thing as someone else, the result is also very likely to be the same. The time for washing comes later, but it is good to discuss the mistakes made in real time too, because there are more decisions ahead that can be done right or wrong. It is a fundamental mistake both for us and for the rest of the world to make too little and too late. The effectiveness of the isolation measures is highest if they are taken in time. Politically I understand that we want to wait until the need for a measure is apparent to the general public, but at that stage it may no longer have the best effect. That is why we must dare to take decisions in a forward-looking manner and even at the risk of calling into question their necessity afterwards. Undeclared and half-baked measures prolong the crisis and increase its price. Of course, the most serious errors were mixing up and running away from responsibility at Helsinki Airport and unnecessary delay in closing the borders of the kingdom. I acknowledge to the government that it has improved its running. However, consideration should be given to work-related passenger traffic at the Uusimaa border as well as at the Finnish and Swedish borders. I understand the economic aspect, but this traffic waters down the effectiveness of quarantine operations. The disease does not look at the cause of its bearer. If the measures are not effective, we will also be discussing curfews here before long, and none of us want that. We must also closely monitor how Sweden succeeds in its own original approach. If the road to Sweden is the road to Italy and its health system is in crisis, there is a risk that people will be sought treatment here. To conclude, I would like to say the positive observation that many others have also mentioned that Finns have generally understood their own best and follow the guidelines very well. There are exceptions, but their contribution should not be exaggerated. And we are also helped by what Mr Kinnunen has just pointed out that we live in very few places and naturally keep more distance than many others. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u100	Mr President! It is sad and, in fact, shocking that we are going to have to deal with such a proposal, which, within the borders of Finland, with police forces and the service of the Defence Forces, prevents citizens from moving freely, for example, to close relatives, grandchildren. This proposal is, of course, justified, and it is necessary, and I am also in favour of it, but it must remain as short as possible. At the same time, we must consider how we can continue to limit the spread of this devastating and serious epidemic. We've been talking about curfews. Fortunately, there is so much space in Finland, including in Helsinki and other parts of the capital region and Uusimaa, that I do not think there is a need to regulate the actual curfew or restrictions on it, and I do not think that they would be of any use at all, but we must also take care of the security intervals outside. This time is distressing and frightening for many, and surely these various limitations, which mean, for example, being separated from close people and relatives and various social restrictions, can increase mental health problems and substance abuse problems, and it is also important that people get out into the environment even when there are no other places besides the home where they could move, unless they work. Border traffic between Finland and Sweden has been discussed here, and it is worrying that there have been cases of disease in Lapland that have spread to Finland as a result of commuting. In my opinion, the government should now consider very carefully the definition and prohibition of the Finnish-Swedish border, which has already been made between Finland and Estonia, i.e. the temporary suspension of commuting. Then I continue to worry about shopping centers where there is a lot of people moving around. I myself would prefer the closure of shopping centres even more important than this closure of the Uusimaa border, as it is unnecessary to arrange indoors for these meeting places for people. Of course, we must ensure that citizens are able to shop in grocery stores and pharmacies, but in this situation I would welcome the closure of shopping centres. It is also a wish expressed by a number of specialist shopkeepers because they hope to be able to close these shops, which are no longer in business, but rents still have to be paid if the shopping centre is open. The most important thing in this situation would now be to strongly combat the spread of the epidemic, not only by holding it back, but also by means of a strategy to suppress the corona virus epidemic. After all, there has recently been a change of strategy in Norway from this brake to repression. Suffocation means that an infected person, on average, would infect only less than one new person, so that it would disappear quite quickly from society. This would require intensive testing, increased testing and tracing of these transmission chains. This would still be possible in Finland, especially in regions where there are still relatively few cases. Of course, it would also mean strong quarantine measures for both the affected and the exposed and the detection of exposure. I would like to comment again, Mr President: Mr Niikko has raised these breathing masks, the masks. Yes, there has been some overcautious use of masks in Finland. We know that viruses pass through these common surgical protective equipment, but yes, the benefits are that if a person, for example, coughs or sneezes in a shop, they do somewhat prevent the infected person from exposing others, i.e. that other persons then become infected, for example, by someone who has not felt sick but then starts to develop symptoms. At the moment, many people are telling us that there is even some shame in wearing masks, and I would like to see them courageously used, especially with those purchases, and that traders could also take these masks and disposable gloves to share with the customers who come to the shop.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u101	Mr President! The use and number of protective equipment talk a lot primarily about medical staff, but also about other areas requiring close contact, such as home care and police, and also about ordinary people, as mentioned above in Mr Räsänen's speech. Not all police officers use protective equipment at checkpoints at the borders of Uusimaa. This is justified on the police website: ‘Policehave protective equipment and are used on a case-by-case basis and where appropriate. However, the police must avoid unnecessary use of protective equipment. At 24-hour checkpoints, a very large number of single-use protective equipment, i.e. permanent replacements, would be consumed for hundreds of police officers.’ So does the police know in advance which car to drive, if any, a carrier or an infector? I don't think so. The message simply tells us that there is not enough equipment. Safeguards must be regulated, even at the expense of workers' own safety. A similar message comes from police officers in ordinary field work. One single-use breathing guard may be available for the police throughout the shift. Mr Pekonen replied to my question during Question Time that the situation is under control, that security stocks have been opened and that equipment has been transferred to hospitals and other people who need it. Despite this, these messages from the field have not stopped. What's going on? Are the transports not yet everywhere, or is the availability of protective equipment so weak that they cannot be properly used, despite the opening of security stocks? We know that a number of medical personnel have died in Italy. Worried about running out of protective equipment is no small thing. We do not always have to get sick, but the problem arises from the fact that the workers who are exposed to medical care or the police, for example, are being quarantined and thus out of the workforce. As far as respiratory protection is concerned, it is difficult to understand why THL from the outset chose a line in which the importance of respiratory protection was underestimated. Not only do the shelters have significant tangible benefits but they also have a psychological effect that reduces close contact. There is scientific evidence of the benefit of the shields in the fight against seasonal influenza and swine flu. According to a model published in 2019, seasonal influenza could even be combated if 80% of people used protective equipment. Of course, there are no similar studies on the Korona virus. It is quite clear that the benefits of the protective equipment require their correct use. That's what the benefits of washing your hands are. Of course, it is no use simply to use water and then to dry a dirty towel. With regard to respiratory shields, the Asian countries chose otherwise. As we have seen over the years, the use of respirators, especially during the epidemic period, is part of Asian culture. They don't look down on them. In fact, the Director-General of the Chinese Office for Disease Control sees the use of respiratory protection as a key means of combating the pandemic. According to him, the bad mistake in the United States and Europe has been that people do not use shelters. Why, then, have Finland and THL underestimated the use of respiratory protection? There are actually two options: The first is that THL is not familiar with the studies on the benefits of respiratory protection. I do not believe in this option at all. The second option, however, is that THL has underestimated the importance of the shields because there are so few. Unfortunately, this seems to be a more credible explanation. Although, of course, I understand the logic behind the message, I still wish, as I have hoped throughout the epidemic, that THL would provide Finns with transparency. The virus, its behaviour and its protection must be communicated openly and honestly. Strategic communication does not work in this context. Disappearing the importance of respiratory shields will not help anything or anyone. Instead, at its worst, it undermines people’s confidence in the authorities, while the right information is spreading among the people. Salminen from THL commented on the news this weekend that protective equipment can be used if he wants to. Of course you can, and that's a good idea. This time, however, Salminen also reminded us that there is a global shortage of shelters, which is unlikely to be corrected immediately. Mr President! I wish the government all the wisdom and vigour to resolve this crucial issue too. I believe that the government will do its best in this exceptional situation and, as in the past, I would ask you to involve the opposition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u102	Mr President! After all, many have told us about their experiences today, and those traffic congestions are mainly on the busiest routes, on the Third and on the Fourth, of course, which hopefully will be reduced in the next few days by human behaviour. It may be possible to step up working hours, and hopefully all possible ones have already moved to remote work, but we must also take into account the possibility of using public transport. VR has kept a surprisingly large part of, for example, long-distance traffic shifts that are rather empty. We came to Helsinki at 1:00 on the IC train to Tampere. I was the only one to board the train in Hämeenlinna, and Mrs Räsänen was the only one to board the train in Riihimäki, and then there were three passengers south of Riihimäki on the whole train of over 400 places, and three of us passengers were inspecting two police officers between Riihimäki and Tikkurila. It is, of course, a good thing that this effectiveness of inspection activities is shown at the beginning, but hopefully in the future, once it has been shown that the situation is under control, it will be possible to target the police and other authorities differently. The question of what to focus on now is certainly largely related to this problem of commuting and protection at work. We have a large proportion of people who are unable to work remotely, and now we need to worry about their protection and customer protection in different types of jobs, different types of workplaces, and it is difficult to think about any individual regulatory system, but above all we need strong information and sector-specific management of problems and more protective equipment. This is a worthy debate on respiratory protection. In particular, and quickly, we would probably need to think about public transport, especially for buses, because if we compare this situation with many trains, especially long-distance trains, there is already such a loose situation that there will be an abundance of safety distances there, but then, at the same time, there will be a full package of, say, airport buses or some local buses, without even having these breathing protection devices in use by drivers. And there is a clear imbalance here that, at the same time, if we start to look at how commuter traffic would be controlled, for example, at the Swedish border, and now there is a question of volumes of several dozen times. Especially if we take these contact volumes inside Uusimaa, for example, how they reduce the risk of transmission, is many tens of times more effective than these specific issues of commuting. In this use of protective equipment, we must now quickly assess what these solutions, such as those of the Asian countries, particularly Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea, are and are effective. Now we're in Europe. The Czech Republic has been the first to introduce a wider recommendation for respiratory protection and, as it were, to protect droplet infestations in both directions, and now needs to be assessed and implemented quickly if necessary. Well, the actual regulation restricting the movement of Uusimaa seems to be quite correct in its content. It has taken into account the comments made in connection with the previous adoption regulation in the Parliament and in the Constitutional Committee, and it would seem very appropriate here to be re-approved, so that it does not have to be dealt with more effectively. Here, too, is this period of 19.4. And I hope that's enough. These other times in the implementing regulations, 13.4. Until now, we will certainly continue in the next few days, but precisely because of the exceptional nature of this restriction in Uusimaa — because it is such a relative measure that we need to think all the time about what the situation is in the rest of the kingdom and what is inside Uusimaa and what kind of traffic is needed in the meantime — it may well be that this one limitation period is sufficient and that on 19 April we could move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u103	Mr President! Indeed, such restrictions are bad, both the closures of Uusimaa and everything else that has been done in this activity at the moment. Of course, in my opinion, it is the case that many things should have been done in advance much earlier, and a little must be said that even the temporal veins were bulging when you listened to the representatives of the government parties there, when even a week ago it was praised for being proactive about all the measures taken, even though the reality is different. In this respect, I agree with Mr Halla-aho that the government has clearly improved its steps and has taken the line that a little earlier has been taken. Now, of course, we must remember that this is going to continue, and I hope that every single thing we talk about here, which restrictions or similar things should be made in the future, will receive the ball much more quickly, because the sooner we get this thing wrapped up and in check, the sooner we will have a much smaller bill in the end of the game than we will have for an infinite period of time. At the moment, when obstacles have been put in place at the borders of Uusimaa, there are still a number of roads which do not properly get past the so-called heavy traffic. I understand very well that there were suddenly no such border stations and no capacity there, and the people there did an extremely good job of getting the border up quite quickly then at midnight, so to speak, but now, of course, we should see that there are quite a lot of distribution traffic and other things that run through the border with constant feed, and on roads where there are no bypasses. Earlier, a representative spoke of having certain stickers and such stickers on some cars. The fact that, on the basis of working alone, some stickers are being put on cars is actually going to put the whole thing at risk. It's not the car. It's the people who are there. I understand that if you talk about rescue staff, doctors, all kinds of things, then you can get them a note that comes into your car quickly. As a good example, our own family business is located in Uusimaa, and all our employees are outside Uusimaa, which means that four of us will be on the Uusimaa side with a continuous pass. I don't see any problem with the fact that they have to sit there and wait in line. It's a normal Ring in the traffic of three and one, which is what it is anyway. Even if we now give a car a privilege to drive by, we still don’t know who’s driving there when there’s a need to go to a cottage or something. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u104	Mr President! In his own speech, Mr Halla-aho took a measure of derision with regard to the Prime Minister and the Government by saying that a week ago the Prime Minister would have said that we should leave the spectacles to others, and now there would be another vote on the clock when we look at this issue today. There's no other sound on the watch. This closure of the borders of Uusimaa or the isolation of other Finland from Uusimaa or the isolation of Uusimaa from the rest of Finland is not a spectacle. These actions, which have been approved here by Parliament on a proposal from the government, have not been spectacles, but serious measures that have been timed to the extent that this situation can be timed properly. It is true that the crisis is on and we do not know what its scale will be in Finland. We know that government action has in any case sought to keep this situation under control as far as possible, to overcome this corona virus in this process at the end of the day. [Sheikki Laakso’s interlude] Mr Heinonen specifically referred to this isolation of Uusimaa and restrictions on movement from the point where the aim has now been to keep neo-nationals in this region at the limit and to reduce the limits of unnecessary movement, which of course aims to prevent the spread of the corona virus and, on the other hand, to prevent the neo-colonial population from exerting a burden on healthcare capacity elsewhere in Finland. That has been the starting point, and Mr Heinonen simply said that, now that this solution has been delayed, From the isolation of Uusimaa, this kind of ‘refugee wave’ or ‘home wave’ was born, the wave of going to the cottages—the neo-citizens moved in the last few Here, too, there is a partial illusion — a partial delusion. The most significant part of the people who moved to these sheltered cottages are the elderly people who were put in quarantine-like conditions a couple of weeks ago, and they considered it by actually placing themselves in quarantine-like conditions by moving to rural areas, very sparsely populated areas, and in that way limiting their contact surface to a minimum — often using the village merchant in such a way that the goods are delivered there and there are practically no contacts at all. This has been the most sensible action to prevent the spread of the corona virus. Similarly, the majority of the neo-Americans who ended up last week before this so-called closure of the borders did not go to any mass meeting to celebrate there or here, but, for the most part, went there to the privacy of the cottages in rural isolation, because people have been responsible for doing this and want to isolate themselves. In this respect, there is no point in panicing in any direction that the neo-Americans are now deliberately spreading the corona virus. It is also unusual to think of Mr Heinonen as saying that if 15,000 cars had passed through and checked and 24 had been fried, that is to say, they were unnecessarily crossing that border, it will tell us whether this is now quite unnecessary on a large scale, when the police and the Defence Forces together monitor these crossing points when so little has been caught. It is not a question of these border crossings being put there because they 24 are going to burn 15,000, but that they are not going to burn any of the 15,000. So the majority, thousands of thousands of people, have not left for traffic precisely because of the security. Of course, what has now been done is that we want the New Land to be isolated, as painful and difficult as it has been for all of us — at all levels difficult for Finnish society — to do so, and that is why the fact that it is also monitored in an effective manner in Finland makes sense and has been implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u105	Mr President! After all, temporary restrictions on mobility have been imposed to protect the population — temporary restrictions to prevent movement have been imposed to protect the population — and therefore the regional borders of Uusimaa have been closed. This has worked very well, but as has been the case here with the speeches that when heavy traffic runs along the Uusimaa border and the food is moving there, it would be good if it were to be found in the so-called truck lane so that these trucks can move as smoothly as possible, because they do not drive the trucks there for fun, but they have the job of moving the food here and there to the provinces. Mr Kärnä made a good speech that, in the event of an emergency and in times of crisis, each of us has the responsibility, the responsibility of the individual, and the responsibility at the moment is to stay at home and stay in their own small circles, so to speak. But responsibility, Mr President, is also to remain calm and focus on caring for its own health and not spreading rumors of unrest. Just now, Mr Kiljunen was talking about this so-called wave of cottage dwellers, and now there are such rumours in the provinces that the corona virus is being imported from here. That is not the case, no one has wanted to go to the provinces to spread the virus, and that is why I would like to remind you that we should remain calm. Mr President! I believe that this week we are going to make a little over-reacted decisions as if we were going to stay and watch because I believe and experience and I see that this week is the week in which this situation begins to develop. Mr Räsänen pointed out here that shopping centres should also be closed down. I fully agree, and I have also pointed out in this Chamber last week that, now that these Easter holidays are coming, should we also give the provinces the possibility of restricting movement? People like to go to the cottages and like to go, like in Kainuu, for example, ice fishing and skiing, so would it be worth limiting this movement even more in the coming weeks, even this week? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u106	Mr President! Yeah, in these times, you have to think in many places that you'd rather do more than less. We are living in exceptional circumstances and we all know that, whether it is a question of restricting mobility or restricting freedom of business, these are heavy and very exceptional measures. It is important that we consider in the north, both the border between Finland and Sweden and the border between Finland and Norway, the smooth operation of commuting and whether there is a need for action, because there have already been possible corona infections in the media, which have come from the Swedish side due to the crossing of the Tornio border. I have also received the message that the same situation lies in the north, on the Norwegian border, even though the quantities are not as high. People are used to moving across the border, and of course there are infections on the Norwegian side, such as Karasjoki and Kautokeon. So it is important that we also consider the matter. On Saturday morning, the active citizen contacted me when the first pictures had come from this inspection of the Uusimaa border. It is known that we have electronic identifiers and different passcodes that are commonplace — whether it's a movie ticket or a game ticket or an event ticket to a concert, there are different possibilities for mobile tickets — and this person is indeed working in such an area and sent a suggestion that people or groups of persons who are checked at these checkpoints would be quite possible to release a pass ID or a mobile device to encode one that could be read remotely. If this situation continues for longer, then also such mobile tickets would be much easier to renew and distribute to thousands of people. In a way, they would not have to be distributed because they would come through its electronic register. It would only be possible to encode that the pass, this mobile identifier, will be valid for a longer time on that mobile phone, and then it would also be much more certain, based on the contact of this operator. It has been a matter of showing people different paper documents during the weekend that they are working or that they are forced to move because of work, and as stated in this regulation: ‘The police are preventing the unnecessary movement of persons who are to blame under paragraph 3 of this regulation. “ If a person pleads that it is necessary, for example because of work or occupation, to exceed that limit, then the police must not prevent it. Of course, Mr President, in relation to the Uusimaa border we are talking about tens of thousands of crossings, but I am still concerned about the situation at the airport because I was familiar with these passenger numbers at Finavia, and in the normal month Helsinki Airport has more than 650,000 passengers travelling to Finland on international flights per month. Twenty thousand were less in February, but it cannot be assumed that in March there would have been less than half a million passengers on international flights, because there are also a lot more of those flights due to these different discharges and returns, when exchange students and researchers and all Finns temporarily abroad have been asked to return to their country of origin. One thing that is important and what has been talked about in this Chamber is this protective equipment. The great concern is the protective equipment of the police, the Defence Forces and also the garrison. As Mr Purra, chairman of the Administrative Committee, pointed out, there cannot be enough protective equipment because they are not distributed to the police. This kind of code for a mobile device that could be read remotely would also be a preventive measure. If there are simply no protective equipment for everyone, then when the code is read further and it would be enough gloves for the police alone, it would be better than having too few protective equipment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u107	Mr President! One thing I want to say in this context. When we started this debate, Mr Heinonen, a representative of Parliament, whom I highly appreciated, doubted the importance of these travel restrictions from the point of view that, as I recall this morning’s experience, about a tenth of people had been converted by some checkpoints. I would have liked to see a little more analytical thinking from Mr Heinos, because we must remember that when we have travel restrictions and, as I recall, 0.17% were turned away, one might draw the statistical conclusion that 99 % and the snags remained at home for those who knew it was not worth leaving. In other words, the message of society to the citizens at the moment is unambiguously clear: do not move. Stay where you are. Be at your house as much as you can. Don't spread the disease. That's what this is all about. Think of it, if we infect a person with our disobedience or our inconsiderateness, and then there are many even in the intensive care units, then it is a matter of human life. Do we consciously have to go against this to fight or opponate with the freedom to move? Yes, you have to take your mind into a calm hand and think about what to do, and if you can’t find any other motivation, I hope that under Easter you’ll even think about your neighbors.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u108	Mr President! This closure of the Uusimaa border is a new and, in a way, interesting situation and a tough and drastic decision that has been taken in relation to this coronavirus disease. Yes, the government must now be commended for having taken hard grips and trying to break the progression and spread of this disease. That too has been a very important decision in this situation. Those to whom I would like to thank in particular are the police and the bordermen who are working on this issue and on supervision over there. During the weekend, on Saturday, I drove to Varkaus and stopped in line. Just calmly, that thing moved on. There was no terrible thing going on. By the time we got back, the traffic went very well: the trucks went by the lane, the trucks went by the lane, kept going, and the police then directed us to the place where we were going to check our movements, that we were moving around with the right things. What has come to mind in this situation is also the way in which we Finns deal with this. I think we should also thank our education system and, in a way, our education system, which is. We have learned that we follow the instructions. People have accepted these instructions very well and have distanced themselves and taken care of their hygiene. In shops and everywhere you can see how they take the disinfectant into their hands and clean their hands and try to avoid getting close. I think we're doing all right. I trust Finns and Finns in this situation. In this way, we will continue to be able to move forward. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u109	Mr President! In recent days, drastic restrictions have been imposed on how people can move and engage in their livelihoods and consume. These are tough measures, which also have a high economic cost. As a general rule, we in committee have seen them as well-founded, and they have been brought in unanimously. Here, however, the observation is that even though they are justified, these restrictions must be constantly examined and critically examined in the light of our understanding of their usefulness. After all, these are good health outcomes, but even these economic losses cannot be sustained indefinitely, and if they continue for months, then at some point we will have to ask whether the indirect cost of economic deterioration to health and to human lives is already increasing and at some point too high, just because if the economy declines and paralyses for a long time, then the resources of care and care will also be reduced only by the decline in public tax revenue and human lives will be lost. Now I am going a little to an area which, for example, is much better known by Aki Lindén through her medical training, but as we update our perceptions of the number of people who carry the disease in society — for example, through the tests of antibodies planned by the THL — then we can re-evaluate the economic benefits of these restrictive measures. After all, at some point it would be desirable to have a situation similar to that in which, at least, it would appear to be the case. This epidemic has been brought under control by current knowledge in Asian countries, i.e. once it has been sufficiently blocked, these transmission chains could be traced back to testing and the majority of people could return to normal activity. It would obviously also be useful to take a sample of people like Helsinki or Uusimaa, regardless of their health or health status, and to analyse how many people are already carrying this infection without even realizing it. It is very important to what the benefits of these restrictive measures are. As some British researchers have pointed out, if, in any case, a significant proportion of the population already carry this latently without getting sick, then, of course, the benefits of these restrictive measures will be lower and the mortality rate will actually be lower than in the opposite case. In other words, these things must be followed in the light of the best scientific knowledge, and I have no doubt that the government will understand and do so, and the National Institute for Health and Welfare, too, on the basis of the information of recent days, is clearly oriented towards research projects of this kind. Another interesting point of reference here is indeed our neighbouring Sweden, where quite a different strategy has been chosen. It has sometimes been criticised or described as some form of ‘economic thinking more important than health’, but it should be borne in mind that if you get to grips with the Swedish debate and decision-making process,this is not the way in which Sweden chooses to act. It has not been because politicians wanted to do something to prioritise the economy at the expense of health, but in Sweden, which is a well-known country of independent authority knowledge, this public health institute, the Folkhälsoinstituttutet, has really chosen such a course of action on the basis of its own expertise. Perhaps some time later we will see how it compares with other countries' strategies in the light of economics and prosperity, losses and deaths. But no country here can afford to be very mockeryful of other countries. That is how weak our knowledge base is at this stage. — Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u110	Mr President! The isolation of the province of Uusimaa is necessary and necessary in order to curb the spread of the epidemic from the region of Uusimaa to other provinces, while at the same time ensuring that the capacity of hospitals in the provinces, especially intensive care, is sufficient to meet the needs of the inhabitants of the region. However, I would like to point out that there is a need to avoid unnecessary confrontation between Uusimaa and the inhabitants of other provinces and also between local residents and cottagers. In fact, it is only a few weeks since the instructions were given that those who have a free-time residence should now go to the cottage and start that cottage life well before the beginning of the summer and voluntarily isolate themselves from this epidemic, and many, for example, well-preserved pensioners, made these decisions. Then last week the Prime Minister again said that now everyone out of the cabins back to their homes. I think that if someone has already been in their cabin for two or three weeks, they have already been quarantined, and from the point of view of this epidemic, it is as if it makes sense to go back to the Uusimaa region, where they are more likely to be exposed to this virus. So we have to be able to use common sense as well. Mr. Speaker! I would like to point out from this mobility and the risk of infection that none of us knows how long this situation will continue and how long we will have to make further restrictions. The further spring goes, the greater the temptation must be outside for larger meetings, and we will soon have a May Day near, when it would certainly be quite a temptation to be even in large gatherings. I think that, if this situation continues to be serious, it would be important for the government to consider in good time how to organise the May Day so that there is no unnecessary exposure to coronavirus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u111	Mr President! I was at a remote meeting of the city government and I noticed that at least one thing is tightening us up here, that is, the use of these remote connections, which is much to be desired, and yet they have not made any progress. That is why, unfortunately, I have not heard all the speeches, and I am sorry if I repeat a few things as a result. I understood that the Group of the Finns Party has become a bit of a towel about the fact that we might not be in this situation, that we would limit the movement of Uusimaa if we had genuinely intervened in travelling through Finnish borders much earlier. Then a few weeks ago, perhaps more, three or four weeks ago, this was already raging around the world, and yet we had a lot of people going abroad and taking pictures there, and recommendations were made that don't go now and this is not a nice thing. This went on and on, and now, after people came, the government announced that instructions were given to airports for people to go into voluntary quarantine and how to go home. Well, we heard last week that this had not happened since then, that there had been data gaps. Well, I say that if I had myself been the responsible minister or other person, then I would now have made sure by phone that hey, is there now all the information, when such tips came along the way, probably to many others. Yes, it was kind of a virus sling — there when people come around the world from epidemic areas and then rushes whoever to where, and this is how it spreads. We might not be in this situation where we are now. In that very first speech, Mr Heinonen spoke about this green line, and it is in a way a good idea for some transports to get out of it directly. For example, it reminds me of the urgent supply of very important supplies, that there could be certain transports, such as protective equipment, and then the transport of animals — they must not, of course, take hours. However, we are still a human state, and it is good to remember that this too will be taken into account. It has also been criticised here, as I myself criticised last week, for the reason why these certain restrictive measures were not put into effect immediately and then adopted afterwards in Parliament, as required by the Emergency Act, and then the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Ojala-Niemelä, mentioned these procedures. I personally felt that this preparedness law was too rigid and too slow and called for an update, and the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Ojala-Nieme, was on the same lines. So we need to get now after this crisis definitely updated our preparedness law, so that we don't then, due to the technicalities, roll back and forth the paper, which in itself is correct but should be divided into two papers and two different sessions, because if we have a serious crisis, then we can't stay around with things like this. In general, legal research and thinking — this is not quite directly comparable, but nevertheless — for example, the title of a document cannot be determined but its content. In a certain way, more should be interpreted in the right way than clinging to their forms. Finally, I would like to say about the situation in Sweden: I am not a doctor, and I am sorry if, as Mr Vartiainen said, it is not up to the politicians. Yes, politicians should probably start making decisions there. At least I myself am concerned to read the figures that there are well over a hundred dead and we have 13, and it seems that we are going to Easter on the way to Lapland. Perhaps it would be good to listen to some other doctors there too. But that is up to them, except if the dual citizens decide to leave here, then it is up to us too, and yes, we should be a little concerned about whether they are very much on the map in Sweden. Finally, I would like to say that we here in the opposition have been very positive in supporting the government's proposals and everything that has tightened up and, if possible, has also shortened our speeches and have been extremely flexible. However, let us not take the attitude that was expressed in some of the speeches made by the representatives of the government parties that we should not frustrate. We're not brawling. However, we are here as representatives of the people and together we end these things, and everyone can have different views, different opinions, good tips. By the way, they come from representatives all the time. Today we have last noticed together with Mr Räsänen that there are no hand gloves or even gloves in the shops, and such rounds we have apparently both made this weekend. That we have very good ideas and we are in a very sincere mood so that in principle we do not assume that immediately, as we are criticized or floundered, it is our job to bring different views. We each have our own voters and our own brains, which is why we have been elected — who for what, but in any case. — Thank you, and let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u112	Mr President! It is extremely important that, in these exceptional circumstances, we all have up-to-date information. One of the things that concerns the citizens at the moment, and I am sure that each of us will be contacted, is when things are moving forward, what is the speech of a member of the Government, what is the fact that things are going to happen in Parliament — and this is what Mr Räsänen here, in fact, referred to, is this unclear information. Therefore, when we are at the beginning of a new month and we know that this serious exceptional situation, this battle against our invisible enemy will not survive in weeks, but will take months, it would now be extremely important for our citizens to think that there would be up-to-date open information, such as suomi.fi/korona, vnk.fi/korona.fi or something that would have everything in plain language, starting with the decisions of the Government. Unfortunately, Mr President, it is not possible to put such regulations there, nor do we in this House have legal provisions and reports, but it must be written in plain language which exceptional issues are now in force, which restrictions on movement and freedom of trade are in force. This is one of the things on which there is currently different information in the media, and we cannot escape the fact that there is incorrect information in the media in traffic either. What would be more regrettable than that in Finland, in an open democracy and in our beloved society, citizens would, on the basis of false information, do things that would harm their own health or their own. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u113	Mr President! I do not usually make two speeches on the same subject, but there were a few points which I would like to comment on very briefly. Mr Räsänen raised this issue of May Day. I myself have thought that it is not our role here to be on the operational side, but I dare say, however, that it is clear that no celebrations will be held as a May Day, not by any ideas, but that the whole situation that we now have will last at least two or three months, which is no two or three weeks. But this is my opinion. The second thing is a little more positive: Just an hour ago, I read a laboratory bulletin from the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa, which says that they are now able to develop technology by developing laboratory tests for a much larger capacity. Of course, their significance is linked to the fact that tests will be carried out to identify those who are infected, and that is nothing if they are found, but must of course be isolated, so that we can really cut off these chains. Then there's the third thing, and this goes a little bit like the role of a congressman or the role of a lawyer: I'll tell you about these two chapters, but I don't draw any conclusions from them. So now that we are talking about Uusimaa versus the whole of Finland, 52 of these infections per 100,000 inhabitants have now been detected in Uusimaa. So when we tell it on 17, 52, we get that total figure when there are 1.7 million people here. Fifty-two per 100,000 inhabitants. France has 59 infections per 100,000 inhabitants, that is, the whole of France. France has a curfew and in many ways much tougher grips than we have. I do not draw the conclusion from this that someone might think that this would result, but, as I raised this question, that there is something to think about. The rest of Finland is... As I said in my previous speech, although Varsinais-Suomi is in Chapter 12 when we have 52 here in Uusimaa. So that's the way the border matters. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u114	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 3/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u115	Mr President! Often in these cases, the committee's report is read aloud, but now many people have other important things to think about, and this is an extremely technical matter. Although we all like a juicy political debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, it was very difficult to find such content. This is the background to the European Union's desire to create a Capital Markets Union, including the gradual harmonisation of banking and insurance rules. Now, with this draft law, we are implementing this EU standard. The committee was completely unanimous in this report. It's not even that long, and everyone can look at it. This concerns mainly the disclosure obligations of the Financial Supervisory Authority to other supervisory authorities and also the right of the Financial Supervisory Authority to set up a cooperation forum between competent supervisors. At European level, the eligibility criteria for actuarials will also be harmonised. This is the substantial content of this proposal. — Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u116	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 4/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u117	Mr President! To some extent, this is the same aspect as the previous one. This was a very technical proposal before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which was also the subject of a unanimous report. However, this report is clearly longer than the report that has just been spoken, because there were clearly more technical details in this area. This is due to the fact that the natural gas market has been opened up to competition since the beginning of this year. Of course, the European Union's standard for the natural gas market applies, but although it is almost as such appropriate, it is not so detailed that it should not be applied by national legislation. In fact, this has already been regulated by the Gas Market Act 2017. These basic provisions relating to market opening were then laid down. It is now a question of additional provisions on the centralised exchange of information and market processes in retail markets. This is somewhat similar to the regulatory model chosen in the EU and Finland for regulating the electricity market. These are the same principles. This will therefore create a uniform system whereby the obligations and rights of the various parties — producers, suppliers, network operators and end-users — will be defined. We therefore have these key operators, distribution system operators, retailers and end-users, all of whom are now assigned their own tasks. Quite a significant part of this report concerns data protection, because maintaining this market and central clearing requires the collection of micro-economic data, and this must of course be done on the basis of the EU Data Protection Regulation and Finland's data protection legislation. The principles and compatibility with the Data Protection Regulation are now specified in this proposal. In fact, it is briefly what is contained in this report. This was very instructive for many of us. We learned that a wide range of gases can be transferred within the same network, and this single legislation fits all of this. I am pleased to see that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is also here. As an engineer, he may be able to tell me more about this than I am capable of. There is indeed a unanimous report here, and we did not find any political disagreement here either. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u118	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for a good presentation, which quite sums up what this is all about. I would like to return to this last point. As the committee points out in this report, it is important from the point of view of environmental objectives and a functioning market that the system is transparent and also allows for the inclusion of gas products other than fossil natural gas, in particular biogas, and that it is important to develop, for example, an off-grid biogas guarantee system of origin. Perhaps I would repeat the general observation that, when we do any legislation today or the use of public power and public money, it should not be tied up in a way to the old fossil economy, but, in this case, for example, we must assume that our gas network and the use of gas will be decarbonised, that is, in practice, the gas we use is synthetic fuels made in practice of recycled coal, or of gas produced from bio-based, sustainable bio-raw materials. It is important that all legislation is compatible with this development.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u119	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 2/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u120	Mr President! Seal hunting is overshadowed in Finland by the European Union's regulation, which prohibits the sale of seal products. The report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry took a clear position on this, according to which the committee requires the Government to continue to influence EU regulation in such a way as to allow trade in seal products. Unfortunately, the current situation does not support a traditional Finnish hunting culture in which the best use is made of the catch. There are not many seal hunters in Finland, and the catch levels are therefore lower than would be appropriate. Seals cause clear damage to, among other things, professional fishing and fish farming. If we want to continue to eat Finnish fish and consider professional fishing to be a viable industry, hunting seals must be encouraged. That is why, in its report, the committee states that national measures such as compensation for the removal of seals causing damage could encourage seal hunting. Mr President! I believe that EU regulation is the most important threat to the Finnish hunting culture, whether it is a wolf and other predatory policy or a long-standing ban on lead. It is important that we defend our valuable hunting and rounding traditions and not allow the EU to dictate how we deal with our affairs here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u121	Ärade Herr Talman! Att inte få sälja sälprodukter går estrot principerna om hållbar användning av naturresurser och estrot sunt förnuft. Jakten på säl har långa traditioner i Finland, längs kusten och på Åland. Efter att älstän varit på en mycket svag nivå på 1980-talet är situationen i dag helt den omvända. Gråsälstän grökat explosionsartat och antät sälar är nu så stort att det är ett allvarligt problemm för yrkesfisket. Sälar sprider också parasiter som äts av kräftdjur, som i sin tur äts av fiskar och som gör att parasiter sprids till Fiskbestånden. Parasiter uppskattas vara en betydande orsak till att just torskbeståndet i södra Östersjön är i ett så dåligt skick som nu. Också därför skulle en activare viltvård av gråsälen behövas. Ett stort problem i dag är att de sälar som fälls inte får användas i produkter som säljs — något som inte bara går emot principen om hållbar användning av naturreser utan också emot allt sunt förnuft. I kögare vill inte fällä ett djur som han eller hon inte kan tar vara på. Då försäljningen i dag är förbjuden av EU begränsar det öjligheten till användningen, vilket i sin tur begränsar jakten. Förbudet mot handel med sälprodukter är inget som Finland senmt kan ändra på effectsom det regleras på EU-nivå. Jord- och skogsbrukskottet har gjort ett mycket bra betankande i frågan. Utskottet konstaterar också att den gällande EU-lagstiftningen som förbjuder handel med sälprodukter är mycket problematisk för Finland. Utskottet konstaterar att nuvarande handelsförbud förhindrar utnytjandet av sälprodukter au i Jägarens eget hushåll, och leder för sin del till att denna värdefulla och historiskt viktiga viltiga viltart betraktas som ett skadjur. Ifall sälprodukter inte kan utnyttjas ekonomisskt till den del det överskrider behovet i det egna hushållet, led det till en etiskt problemmatisk location som strider mot vår jaktkultur som traditionellt omfattar tillvatagande och utnyjande av bytet samt respekt för vilt. Irade the Talman! Finland har under hösten 2019 konstaterat i en rapport till EU-Commissionen att förbudet går estrot principerna för en hållbar användning av naturresurser och att förbuddet har orsakat problemm för kustfisket i Finland och i flera andra medlemsstater i Östersjöområdet. Regeringen har en bra linje i frågan, och jag är glad att regeringen activt kommerdriva på ett slobande av förbudet inom EU. Det skulle ha en stor betydelse både för yrkesfisket och flera fiskbestånd i Östersjön och är en viktig fråga för alla kustsamhällen i Östersjön.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u122	Mr. Speaker! As regards the pursuit of hunting, the Hunting Act states that ‘hunting shall be carried out in accordance with the principles of sustainable use and that there shall be no risk to the conservation of wild fauna, no unnecessary damage to nature, no risk The current EU regulation prohibiting trade in seal products is extremely problematic for Finland. From 2010 to 2019 only 13 to 45 % of the quota allocated to hunting in the hall has been used. The reason is probably a trade ban that prevents the use of Finnish seal products other than by asking for their own use, which is why a valuable and historically significant game species is seen as a harmful animal, as is also stated in the Government proposal. At present, seal products cannot therefore be commercially exploited, leading to a conflict with our country's hunting culture, which traditionally includes the capture and exploitation of catches and respect for game animals. Too large a seal stock is a major loss for fishermen, for certain stocks that are already in a bad situation and for fish farming.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u123	Mr President! EU regulation prohibiting trade in seal products is very problematic. Seals and also cormorants pose a serious threat to fishing in coastal areas and the Archipelago Sea. They pose serious problems for the continuity of the fishing industry as a whole. Professional fishermen are disappearing. The grey seal is the biggest problem in Finnish coastal fishing and is a limiting factor. The grey seals arrived in the Archipelago Sea in the mid-1990s. The damage grew rapidly when seals first came into the waters of Korppo and Nauvo and then through Airisto and Inio’s opening to more sheltered waters. Appearance of the seal at fishing sites means the end of fishing. They cause damage to catches and fishing gears. They also cause invisible damage by taking prey from the traps without leaving a trace. They also cause problems for endangered fish stocks, such as cod. According to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the damage to fishing in 2017 was approximately EUR 350000 and for fish farming approximately EUR 1 million. In practice, the damage is likely to be much higher each year. Mr President! Seal hunting is a very demanding species. It is understandable that seal hunting is not an inspiration and its hunting quota is not met in the current situation where the commercial exploitation of different seal products is prohibited. It is very inappropriate for me not to say that the absurd EU regulation on seal products, the EU regulation, threatens to kill the professional fishing of Finnish coasts and archipelagos once and for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u124	Mr President! As the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry states in its report, the current EU regulation prohibiting trade in seal products is very problematic for Finland. The ban on the sale of seal products has adverse effects on fish resources, fishing, hunting and hunting culture. The trade ban on seal products also runs counter to the sustainable use of natural resources. Hunting has a long tradition in Finland, and the hunting culture of our country traditionally includes the capture and exploitation of prey and respect for the game animal. The EU seal product regulation has paralysed interest in seal hunting, as few hunters want to overthrow an animal that they cannot fully exploit. It's a waste of resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u125	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kiviranna, Mr Löfström and Mr Norrback for their excellent contributions. We have a serious problem with this. We have a certain number of fishing permits, over 100,000, and only about half of them will be used. However, the objective should be if we are to keep the seal stock on a reasonable scale so that all these fishing authorisations are used. This is not the time for hunters to go there to ask, because it is impossible to carry out their own culture and their own hunting activity, because that meat simply cannot be exploited. As the previous speakers have said, this is something that needs to be changed at European Union level, and I really hope that the government will take it seriously. There must be an exception. We need to get seal meat and other seal products, their fleece and their products, into shops. What would be better local food on the Finnish coast than seal meat, and what would be better, more ethical and ecological clothing than clothes made of wild seal, which I prefer, and they are also favoured in Lapland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u128	Mr President! It is worth bearing in mind the background to this directive and the great European concern about the treatment of animals and the widespread desire to constrain this barbaric killing which has been taking place on the Canadian coast for a long time. [MikkoCurrent Call] Seal hunting in Finland has been rather small, mainly targeting the grey seal, or hall. Every year a few hundred halls are caught in Mainland Finland, and Åland also has its own quota. According to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the trade in seal products in our country is of limited economic importance. Therefore, the prohibition of seal trade in Finland does not have very extensive effects, but it is important to note that hunting for its own use may continue. Domestic fish as part of a healthy diet is very much to be welcomed and concern about the future of the fishing industry is justified. Halls cause damage to the fishing industry by, among other things, breaking fishing gears. This is a recognised problem, and in order to prevent its damage, compensation is currently being paid to fishermen. However, the halls are not the main problem and the only problem is that, unfortunately, young people are not interested in fishing, for example, at the moment, and we should look for solutions to this issue. Furthermore, the halls have not been shown to threaten the fish stocks in Finland, contrary to what is sometimes said. According to a risk assessment published by the Ministry of the Environment, the causes of the endangered species of our fish are elsewhere. The main threats are chemical adverse effects such as eutrophication and environmental toxins, man-made overfishing and civil engineering, such as dams. Fishermen have expressed their concern about the ban on trade in seal products, as it is feared that it will reduce management hunting and increase management stock and damage to fishing. Since the trade in seal products has so far been very limited in Finland, I believe that hunters interested in seal hunting will continue to hunt for their own needs. In addition, the Government Programme has agreed that the compensation for the removal of the injured government individuals can begin to be compensated, and this makes sense, because hunting will then be directed specifically at the injured individuals. It is possible to live side by side with the seal in the future. The hunting of the species for its own needs may continue, although the trade in seal products is prohibited.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u129	Mr President! Mr Pitko made a very good speech, but I would like to make it clear here that this proposal is by no means denying something new but is continuing with the current state of affairs that we have had with EU membership. This current state of affairs must now be influenced by the strong government’s efforts to get local seal food and local clothing there on store shelves.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u130	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 2/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u131	Mr President! I myself am trying to give a brief introduction to this report by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Let me first say that this has indeed taken place in the middle of February in the Committee on Legal Affairs, so we dealt with it until the end. At the moment we are dealing only with the necessary proposals, and in fact here I would say that today, for example, the government proposal on charging points for electric cars is perhaps one that could have stayed for the day, so that we can now only deal with the necessary and sensible legislation. This Government proposal is a government proposal for laws on certain provisions concerning the processing of personal data in the Ministry of Justice's administrative sector. These are legislative changes resulting from data protection legislation in the European Union, which will have to be introduced in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice. EU data protection regulation has been reformed and this has required national enforcement measures. The Data Protection Act complementing the EU Data Protection Regulation and the so-called Criminal Data Protection Act implementing the Criminal Data Protection Directive have already entered into force in the past. In addition to the general laws mentioned above, the implementation of EU data protection regulation will also require a change in the national specific regulation on the processing of personal data to reflect the new EU data protection regulation. The present proposal contains amendments to 21 laws for which immediate changes have been identified in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice. The proposal proposes to delete some unnecessary provisions that overlap with the general legislation. At the same time, the aim is to harmonise the specific provisions relating to the processing of stored personal data and to clarify their relationship with applicable general regulations. The proposal contains the most changes to the legislative proposals for amending the enforcement cycle and the Safety Clearance Act. I would like to raise a few points about the unanimous report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights: With regard to the enforcement cycle, the proposal ensures, inter alia, the continuation of the transmission of information to the protection police in order to prevent criminal offences relating to its field of activity, taking into account that the protection police are no longer a preliminary investigation authority after the entry into force of the Civil Intelligence Act. In connection with the examination of the proposal, the question has also arisen as to whether the enforcement cycle should be amended more broadly in order to extend the right of enforcement authorities to provide information to the protection police to cover activities that threaten national security. According to the Ministry's proposal and following an expert consultation, the committee considered the approach proposed in the proposal to be appropriate and considers it quite right that the Ministry of Justice should first carefully prepare such a legislative need and then bring it to Parliament. With regard to safety clearances, the draft specifies the general law applicable to safety clearances. The second major change relates to the proposed section on the social register of the Protection Police and the Chief Staff. The purpose of processing personal data related to security investigations by the Protection Police and the Chief Staff is the same, so the joint register is possible and appropriate according to the report received by the committee. For the reasons set out in the Government’s proposal and on the basis of the report it has received, the Committee on Legal Affairs considers that the proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the proposed legislative proposals with a few comments and amendments. One change came into the Association Act. According to Article 11(1) of the Association Act, the list of members of the Association is to be kept. The full name and address of each member shall be entered in the list. The members of the association shall be given an opportunity to consult the above information on request. The proposal proposed a restriction on access to information other than those referred to above. Under the proposal, if the association collects other information, it can only be disclosed to the member of the association for a specific reason. In its report, the Committee on Legal Affairs considers that the wording ‘only for a specific reason’ is sometimes vague on the application of practice to situations. The committee has therefore decided unanimously to propose that the provision be changed to:‘Members who demonstrate So this is a motion of amendment. Other amendments to the proposed laws by the Legal Committee are mainly technical.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u132	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 4/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u133	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Safety Clearance Act and the Aviation Act. The Security Clearance Act introduces the regulatory framework necessary to supplement the European Commission's implementing regulation on aviation security. On several occasions, the Administrative Committee has drawn attention to the deterioration and complexity of the security environment. Society must be able to respond to changing security threats. The amendments aim to respond internationally to the insider threat identified in the framework of the fight against terrorism, which means that people working in aviation are involved in the activities that endanger aviation. The studies previously required for those working in the security restricted area of the airport are required to be more extensive after the changes. In addition, it would be possible to carry out a limited personal security survey of persons who carry out security controls outside the security restricted area of the airport or who have independent access, for example, to air cargo after it has been subject to security controls. The Administrative Committee considers it justified that revisions of the aviation safety background are made in Finland in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Safety Clearance Act, as has been the case up to now. The purpose of the security clearance procedure is to prevent any activity which could harm the security of the State or a very significant private financial interest. The committee considers the proposed amendments to be necessary to ensure that the national authorities can carry out the background checks required by the implementing regulation. The committee notes that it is proposed to use intelligence in the follow-up of integrity in accordance with the Security Clearance Act only in the context of a review of the background required by EU aviation legislation. The committee considers it justified that only legislative amendments are being made at this stage which are necessary to fulfil the obligations resulting from the Commission's implementing regulation. The extension of the use of intelligence data to all basic formats and extensive security investigations requires a careful assessment of the fundamental rights and cost implications of the extension. The committee considers it important that, when the legislation on security clearance is subsequently revised, it should be examined whether the use of intelligence in the monitoring of integrity should be extended. The committee considers the date of entry into force of the amendments to be a challenge. According to the report, the protection police have, for their part, taken proactive measures to ensure that the implementation of the amending regulation is not jeopardised. The entry into force of these changes is also hampered by exceptional circumstances resulting from the corona virus epidemic. These changes will increase the need for human resources. Mr President! The committee notes that the changes proposed in the government proposal will improve the possibilities for preventing acts of national security in aviation and will support the fight against terrorism and organised crime. The Committee considers it important that the effects of the proposed amendments are monitored and, if necessary, measures are taken to remedy the shortcomings identified. The committee proposes that Parliament adopt the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u134	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented for a partial, partial second reading. First, on the basis of the LaVM 1/2020 report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the minutes and explanations will be decided at the sole reading and then at the second reading on the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u135	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee, to which the Committee on Finance must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u136	Ärade Herr Talman! Regeringens förslag om att höja Ålands avräkningsgrund från 0,45 percent till 0,47 percent är resultatet av ett långt arbete effecter ett växande behov. Då nuvarande självstyrelselag trädde i kraft fastställdes att Åland, för att finansiera de uppgifter som på Åland Sköts av självstyrelsen och inte av staten, får 0.45 percent av statens samlade intakter exclusive netupplåning. Det är nu över 25 år sedan denna avräkning på 0,45 percent trädde i kraft. Sedan dess har många saker tails. Det mest betydande är att Ålands befolkning vuxit i dubbelt så snabb takt i jämförelse med hela landets befolkning. Det gör att Ålands befolkning nu utgör 0,53 percent av landsets hela befolkning och inte 0,49 percent som då förra självstyrelselage trädde i kraft. En växande befolkning betyder ökade utgifter för Ålands självstyrelse effectoso exempelvis sjukård, skola, vägar och statsandlar på Åland finansieras av självstyrelsen och inte av staten. Åländska kattebetalare betalar nämligen samtliga statsskatter på exakt samma grunder som alla övriga finländare. Eftersom Ålands sysselsättningsläge variant och är mycket gott med en sysselsättningsgrad på över 80 percent och en arbetslöshet på under 4 percent är det åländska samhället också goda kattebetalare. Då det gamla självstyrelsystemet inte beaktat befolkningsökningen så har Åland med det gamla systemet fått mindre pengar tillbaka per capita desto fler man har blivit. Åland skulle med det systemet få tillbaka 0,45 percent av statens samlade skater om man var 10000, 30,000 eller 100000 bosatas. Det säger sig självt att ett sådant statiskt system variants orimligt och inte fungerar i längden. Det rauttar det nya ekonomiska systemet för Ålands självstyrelse till. Nu kommer Åland automatiskt att få mer pengar tillbaka i relation till befolkningssutvecklingen om befolkningen fortsätter att öka, viiket är prognosen. Om Ålands befolkning minskar kommer Åland i stället få mindre pengar tillbaka, så det auta nya systemet är mer flexibelt och rättvist. Men effectsom det är en nyhet i det systemet som riksdage godkände så sent som i december förra året beaktar detta inte den befolkningsförändring som har stett de Senaste 25åren. Just därför behövs en nivåförändring och en höjning av avräkningsgrunden från 0,45 till 0,47 percent, som det raj lagförslaget innebär, för attåterspegla den historiska utvecklingen som sketcht i befolkningsrelationen på de Senaste drygt 25 åren. En höjning av avräkningen kan också motiveras genom att självstyrelsens kostnader i och med EU-inträdet ökat samt att staten bolagiserat verksamheter som tidigare var en del av statsbudgeten, men som inte längre är det. Åland har inte debts ha några bidrag utan enbart få tillbaka en rättvis andel av de skater man betalar. Det är det som det ox lagförslaget nu också betyder. Ärade Herr Talman! Lagförslaget kommer i practiceken att öka Ålands grundfinansiering med cirka 10 million euro per år. Det följer den övereskommmelse som förra regeringen gjorde med Åland, och det är ett slut för revideringen av självstyrelselagens ekonomiska delar. Revisionen av självstyrelselagens övriga del kommer fortsätta, och målsättningen är att regeringen under denna mandatperiod kommer med ett sådant förslag till riksdagen. Det arbetet har pågått redan länge, och arbetet pågick också under förra och förrförra ricksdage av den Parliamenttariska komittén som hade repsentanter från samtliga ricksdags- och lagtingsgrupper under ledning av President Tarja Halonen. Irade the Talman! Det är en stor dag för självstyrelsen att det ox lagförslaget nu komit till ricksdage. Det har variant en lång och krokig väg som det ofta är då man ska revidera självstyrelselagen. Självstyrelselagen är nämligen en lex specialis, vilket betyder att den bara kan ändras i grundlagsenlig ordning med Ålands lagtings bifall. Den är således i practiceken svårare att ändra änjälvos grundlagen. Även om vägen varit lång och krokig har vi ändå hela tiden kommit framåt. Aven om det hade variants of angels att get upp har vi fortsatt vandra längs vägen. Det har det variantt värt, för nu är detta lagförslag, den sista byggstenen i det ekonomiska systemet i den nya självstyrelselage, är i riksdage. Det är en stor dag, inte bara för Åland utan också en dag som ricksdage kan varaa stolt över, i synnerhet då självstyrelsen nästa år inleder sitt hundraårsfirande. Jag vill taga alla som bidragit i detta arbete, både politiker och tjänstemän — ingen nämnd, ingen glömd. Jag ser fram emot att få fortsätta arbetet med detta lagförslag i grundlagsutskottet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u137	Mr President! I have traditionally spoken in the debate on the increase in the Aland Islands equalisation criterion, as I was also involved in the Committee on the Comprehensive Reform of the Åland Self-Government Act and in the Constitutional Committee when this amendment to the Act of Self-Government was discussed last season. Even then, the Finns of Peru made a different view of it. That change was then confirmed here during this parliamentary term. It became clear at the time, at least according to their calculations, that this countervailing criterion should be 0,42 if it were cost-neutral. In these studies this was indeed the figure. And now we're raising it to 0.47. This history of change came from the fact that during the last period of the previous government, as in many other governments, when the reform of social security was discussed, it was found that this reform of social security was going to result in losses for Åland, when the government took measures to compensate for it. At the time, negotiations were started with Åland, because this is, of course, the law that should be done to ensure that the Åland Islands and the Finnish State have a debate on how to do this funding and change the law. In this context, Minister Sampo Terho recorded in the Prime Minister's Minutes that there will be a little overcompensation here, so to speak, but this will have to be done because Åland does not agree to a smaller levelling increase. I've told you, I think this is inappropriate. If you look at this situation: I know that Mr Löfström does not like to remind you that the province of Åland is debt-free, but that is the case. Similarly, I was looking at municipal taxes some time ago, and I think we only have Kauniainen here in Mainland Finland, where there is a municipal tax of around 16% — you had quite a few municipalities at that point. That if you think about the situation we are in here — all municipalities are almost in crisis situations — then I do not really understand the words'reasonable' or'return'. We are all the same society, and if we are thinking of Kauniainen, there are certainly many such municipalities here, but do they get back the so-called state subsidies for everything they have paid? I have to say in my personal opinion that sometimes in those discussions there was a feeling that we are the same society or not, whether we share the good times and the bad times or not. I feel, unfortunately, that, on the Åland side, we want to be involved in giving more money, but when it comes to worse times, then there will not be so much flexibility in participating in it. I find this a little amazing. And I've noticed that when I've talked about these things, the Åland papers always get very excited, and then I'm in every newspaper there that representative of the Sea it and this, but it doesn't matter. I hope that this side of mainland Finland will also be told about how these things have gone. This is exactly what I want to remind you of, and I do not know how fair and fair it is. It depends, of course, who's the recipient and who's on the pay side.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u138	Ärade Herr Talman! Det har blivet litet av Leena Meris paradgren att diskutera Ålands självstyrelselag, och det är trevligt att Leena Meri är mycket intresserade av den är frågan. Men felet som jag uppfattade i argumentationen är att man jämför enkelt Åland med en finländsk kommun. Man hörde exemplet bull med Grankulla och kommunalbeskatningen i Grankulla, och Jämför det med den åländska kommunalbeskatningen. Men Åland är ingen kommun, Åland har 16 kommuner, och Åland sköter de uppgifterna på Åland som enligt självstyrelselagen hör till Ålands behörighet i tillet för till statens behörighet. Så när man säger att Åland är skuldfritt stämmer det att Åland är skuldfritt på landskapsnivå — men det stämmer inte att Åland är skuldfritt om man jämför med kommunerna. För kommunerna på Åland,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u141	Mr President! It's just that these are comparative things. The last time, whether there was a year ago, I cannot remember the exact time when we discussed this and I told Mr Löfström that the province of Åland is debt-free, then you said that we also have municipalities, and now I should not talk about those municipalities again. So there are many municipalities in Finland, and do you know that in a significant part of the municipalities we probably have over 20% of the municipal tax, that we do not have the possibility to keep one — Kauniainen is probably an exception in this group — and you had much lower taxes on municipalities, and you said that the municipalities have debts. In general, low municipal tax indicates that it is doing quite well. I think it's important for someone to talk about this, because this is a bit of a holy cow, that it's not appropriate to talk about it now. I remember that the Åland Committee often called for this to be established by international agreements, and not now, Meri, to bring such unpleasant things, and I said that there has now been no mention of any level of funding there, that there is of course a certain degree of autonomy and certain things, but nowhere has it been said that we have to keep a certain level of funding and a certain level elsewhere. We have municipalities here in Finland in a really bad situation, for example in my municipality of Hyvinkää. I do not know how we will survive without a crisis settlement procedure, and I find it extremely unfair if this frost does not go evenly. It can't be like picking raisins out of buns. Where did this handicap come from? This increase cannot be made without doing this here, by amending the self-government law, which will then require a constitutional amendment. Well, if we were to think, as I said in my speech just now, where did this come from, it started with the social reform that fell and, generally speaking, the Constitutional Committee and the Ministry already stated — I am not quite sure whether the Constitutional Committee was, but at least the government ministers said then — that it would be good, and it is true that the self-government law should be amended as a whole and not in this way in pieces, but it was done because of these wars. And I will take it from this last period, early 2019, as Terho, then Minister for European Affairs and Culture and Sport, said: ‘The Åland Islands used the legal situation to good effect andrequired the Government to adopt a proposal in which the Åland Islands made a significant contribution. In practice In other words, Åland was blackmailing Mainland Finland because it knew that their consent in this matter was required for the advance of the swamps.” Terho stated that the Åland procedure was irresponsible. He states: ‘It is untrue that the United Kingdom of Finlandcan tighten upmore money by maintainingthe health services of other provinces as a hostage,and I would like to point this out because we remember the historical context from where it came from, and I would like to have a certain kind of such — how to put it now — humility can be the wrong word — common spirit and such thinking that it is like... You are accustomed in Åland to the fact that ‘mesain particular money,and we’re in debt,and we’re not in debt,’ —in fact,you’re in debt,and you’re not legally impossible —and then we’re in debt and we’re in debt,but it’s just and reasonable. I ask you: is it fair and reasonable, according to you? I noticed that you have taken the floor. You didn't know what I was saying yet, but I hope you'll answer now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u142	Ärade Herr Talman! Två saker. För det första: gällande kommunerna och beskattningen i kommunerna och skatteprocenten. Det finns också ganska stora skillnader mellan de åländska kommunerna, vis som har låg Skatt precis som du säger, som Grankulla har den lägsta Skatten i landet. Jag tror inte att det finns någon åländsk kommun som har låg Skatt som Grankulla, men som har en låg Skatt. Men det finns också åländska kommuner som har en högre katteprocent. Men vad är då anledningen till att de kommunerna kan ha en lägre beskattning? Jo, det har att göra med ett mycket gott sysselsättningsläge, att sysselsättningsprocenten i många åländska kommuner är över 80 percent, Vilket gör att det är många som delar på kommunala servicen och den höga sysselsättningsgraden ämtar in mycket skattepengar till de åländska kommunerna, och det gör att kommunerna kan hålla en relaxivt låg skatteprocent. Men problemmet ox med de raus skatterna, de statliga Skatterna — sysselsättningsläget gör att Åland betaar mycket skater också till staten och inte bara till kommunen — är att iär inte ente finns mosma flexibilitet genom att det man betalar in te automatiskt kommer tillbaka, utan Åland får tillbaka 0.45 percent av alla de Skatter man har betaalat in. Och det raus skulle säkert funka om den åländska befolkningen skulle vara statisk så att varken befolkningen skulle växa eller minska i procent i förhållande till hela landets befolkning, men den åländska befolkningsökningen har variants mycket stor de Senaste 25åren. Medan landets hela befolkning har ökat ungefär 8 percent så har Ålands befolkning ökat med ungefär 16 percent. Men trots att den ökningen har varat så pass stor så har man inte justerat den rai avräkningsgrunden från 0,45 till någonting you give tidigare, och det gör att per capita så får varje ålänning tillbaka mindre pengar, och sjukårdskostnaderna, att upprätthålla vägar, att betala statsandlar till kommunerna, det som tas av statens budget i riket, det betalas från landsskapets budget på Åland. Och om Åland hela tiden får mindre och mindre per capita tillbaka är det ohållbart att finansiera det trots att Åland är ett samhälle med hög sysselsättning och där economist över lag går bra. Så det som svar på dina två frågor.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u143	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u144	Mr President! We are living in the midst of a corona crisis, but we are also in a hurry to resolve the climate crisis that threatens humanity. It is important that, alongside the resolution of the corona crisis, we are able to move forward with the legislative proposals in preparation that will enable action to be taken to reduce climate emissions. Now there is a Government proposal for laws on the charging points and charging points of electric vehicles and on the automation and control systems of buildings and the related amendment of the Land Use and Building Act. The proposal also includes the extension of the advisory procedure for heating and air-conditioning systems to electricity heating, heat pump and district heating systems. The aim of this new legislation is to improve the energy efficiency of buildings and to mitigate climate change. To achieve this, charging points for electric cars and the use of smart technology in buildings will be increased. The new legislation is part of the implementation of the amendment to the Energy Efficiency Directive for Buildings, which came into force in June 2018. In this speech, I will focus on the charging points for electric cars that have even raised the debate. Mr President! The Government's goal is that Finland will be carbon neutral in 2035. This requires accelerated emission reductions in all sectors and the strengthening of carbon sinks. Transport produces about one fifth of Finland’s greenhouse gas emissions, and about half of this is caused by passenger car traffic. Finland is committed to halving transport emissions by 2030. In order to reduce transport emissions, transport performance must be reduced and fossil fuels abandoned. Mr President! More charging points for electric cars are needed to enable more and more people to switch cars using fossil fuels to electric cars. The driver must be sure that the electric car can be charged at home, at the workplace and on its way across Finland. The Government's proposal outlines how many places to charge electric vehicles must be in housing companies, companies, workplaces, parking places in shops. Indeed, the proposal is based on the national implementation of the EU directive. However, the government has raised the level of ambition of the directive in order to ensure that the new law as far as possible supports the electrification of transport and hence the reduction of climate emissions. The electrification of transport is absolutely essential on our way to home carbon-neutral Finland in 2035. The obligations of the Government’s proposal are more ambitious than the directive for new buildings and for large-scale renovations. These new and widely renovated residential buildings with more than four parking spaces must be equipped with charging point facilities for all parking spaces. These obligations would be applicable from 21 C.E. This is a sensible and sustainable preparation for future electrification of transport for housing companies. The new or renovated building will be in operation for decades, i.e. it will now be equipped for future electric motorists. On the other hand, the obligations relating to existing buildings are in line with the basic requirements of the Directive and non-residential buildings owned and used by micro-enterprises are exempted. On the other hand, this has been done to ensure that obligations do not become excessive for the owners of buildings. Mr President! The Government is also looking for other ways to ensure the availability of charging points for electric cars throughout Finland on a fast schedule. A project is being prepared by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to provide a quick charging point for every municipality that does not yet have one during this year and next year. The starting point must be that in the near future, an electric car can travel around Finland without any problems when there are enough charging possibilities. Mr President! In September 2019 there were approximately 25,000 electric cars in Finland, of which 4200 full electric cars and the rest hybrids. The national energy and climate strategy sets out a target of 250,000 electric cars by 2030. Some estimates talk of up to 600,000 electric cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u147	Mr President! We live in crisis conditions. Even under normal conditions, the Government's objective of carbon neutrality is too ambitious, and now it is impossible. The presentation of charging sites is still oversized and does not take into account individual conditions and the need for use. In the opinion poll, the obligations on the number of charging points for existing buildings were lowered to the basic level of the Directive and the obligations of micro-entities for non-residential dwellings were waived, but many other problems remain in the proposal. Many of our entrepreneurs are in distress. Especially now we cannot afford to make an entrepreneurial and trade-stricken policy. The proposed law has reduced the requirements for the number of charging points, in particular for existing buildings, but the costs for different operators are still considerable. The bill would lead to expensive and unreasonable investments that are misplaced at regional level. These investments would be out of other, perhaps more genuinely effective, environmental measures. Based on its quantity, the proposal is contrary to the polluter-pays principle and socially unoptimal. So I saw you under normal circumstances. Market-basedness and, where appropriate, the principle should also be applied here. The direction is towards electrification of traffic in any case. If some companies find that there is a high demand for charging sites, they will be increased. Forced all to build a certain amount of charging sites is pointless and even harmful. Moreover, due to the rapid development of technology, it is not advisable to be too committed to the current charging technology and to invest in charging points that may become obsolete quickly. A few efficient charging points are better than tens of slow and empty basic charging points. Finland must not bow on this issue, but, for all obligations relating to charging sites, we must accept the minimum obligation of the directive as an appropriate level. The cost impact of the proposal is still below deck and the costs of its negative indirect effects have not been taken into account. In many expert opinions, the estimated direct cost impact is between EUR 50 million and EUR 100 million between 20 and 30 years, although the lack of data makes this assessment more difficult. The cost of charging places can be directly away from other development of properties in a more responsible direction, such as investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy use. There is also an unacceptable financial burden on residents, especially in these times. The fact that there is a huge number of plugs everywhere and they are empty does not make people invest in electric cars. The Norwegian study found that the low number of off-home charging points is not a significant factor limiting the penetration of electric cars. Although the number of environmentally friendly alternatives on our roads is increasing, the main problem faced by basic consumers is not the lack of infrastructure, but the lack of money. Mr President! The policy against climate change is very often directed hardest towards the middle class and the working class. Many of these people are at risk of losing their jobs and livelihoods as a result of the corona epidemic. This does not change, in fact, by saying that the measures are 'fair'. In this context, fairness means that taxes need to be collected more and more from somewhere in order to reduce the burden of payment elsewhere. This is not the time for this kind of billing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u148	Mr President! It is a good thing that the number of charging points for electric vehicles and the readiness to build them are regulated. This will ensure that new buildings are ready to charge electric vehicles. Our society is moving strongly towards the gradual replacement of electric vehicles with internal combustion engines. The increase in charging opportunities is a natural prerequisite for the popularity of electric vehicles. Electric vehicles cannot become very widespread unless their charging network is comprehensive. Mr President! The comparison between electric vehicles and internal combustion vehicles shall take into account the life cycle of the individual vehicle from manufacturing to scrapping or recycling. The whole is complex and, at different stages of the life cycle, emissions from electric vehicles vary in relation to combustion vehicles, so that, at the production stage, the emissions from combustion vehicles are about 60% of those from electric vehicles, i.e. electric vehicles are almost twice as polluting at the manufacturing stage. This is due, for example, to the extraction of minerals for batteries. However, in the operating phase, the design changes so that, when looking at the entire life cycle, the emissions of electric vehicles are good 60 per cent of those of combustion vehicles. However, this naturally depends heavily on the way electricity is produced. If, for example, the energy needed by an electric vehicle is produced with coal, then the result is certainly not more beneficial to the environment than a combustion vehicle. Mr President! Many factors must therefore be taken into account in this debate. However, it is a good idea to prepare for an increase in the use of electric vehicles in the future in the design of buildings. With regard to the construction of new buildings, with this government proposal, we have a better readiness for electric vehicles to become more widespread over the next ten years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u149	Mr President! This presentation of charging points for electric cars and automation and control systems for buildings is good and expected. Halving transport emissions by 2030 is part of the Government's objective of taking responsibility for climate change and making Finland carbon neutral in 15 years. That goal is necessary, but it is not quite easy. Transport accounts for about one fifth of Finland’s emissions, of which about half originate from passenger cars. In practice, transport emission reductions require significant changes in the power sources and fuels of passenger cars. Fortunately, these technologies are developing and have developed rapidly. The most important is the electrification of car traffic. Although emissions during the manufacture of an electric car are on average higher than the corresponding internal combustion engine, driving over the life cycle is a more sustainable choice. Electricity mobility is significantly more energy efficient than incineration and emissions are only generated in that production and electricity production. The climate benefits of electric cars in relation to fossil fuels were also found in a recent research article in Nature Sustainability, which found that in practice an electric car is already reducing emissions in almost all parts of the world, except in a few countries, and thus also in Finland, and when the emissions of electricity production are still falling, the situation becomes even clearer. Finnish motorists drive an average of 52 kilometres a day, so the majority of trips in themselves would slip without problems with electricity. One of the bottlenecks is charging points. The charging infrastructure has expanded rapidly, but there are still gaps, and market-based charging infrastructure alone is not rising rapidly and comprehensively enough. This bill, which is based on the EU directive, will correct this. It's a very good performance. It takes balanced account of the different starting points of the existing and new building stock. The requirements of the law regarding the capacity to load and the places to load are justified and the transition periods are sufficient. The feedback of the consultation was also genuinely taken into account. This bill supports a sustainable transition in transport. I can see that this corona crisis is being used here, as it were, as a reason not to do such things, but it is good to note that climate change, the climate crisis itself, has not gone anywhere in itself, even though our emissions here are going to fall for a while, and certainly elsewhere. The interest crisis is a good example where we have the knowledge produced by the scientific community on how we are at risk of a very serious danger, and we use that information, make proactive decisions, save lives and protect our well-being. This is a very short scale compared to the climate crisis, and it is not worth making exactly the same comparisons, but there are some parallels in it. So here too we need to hear the message of the scientific community and act on time, protecting well-being, protecting future generations and also saving lives in practice by acting as the researched knowledge guides us, reducing emissions in time and directing such a low-carbon, deep-carbon decarbonisation process. This bill is part of all the policy it requires.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u150	Mr President! This government proposal is, of course, appropriate and very necessary at the time, but it is always worth the cool consideration before we start to do something significant. Firstly, the fact that this directive does not, of course, oblige existing detached houses or other small houses to take immediate action. Of course, if an electric car is purchased, then surely the car owner will see to it that it flows from his own house. It is also justified that when you shop, you have to be able to load the car, but that's not the way it works. If a person spends an average of 15 minutes, half an hour at most, buying a normal household, it makes no sense to start loading a car in the parking lot even if it is ready. Yes, the download will take place there at home or at the employer's place, and the employer will probably try to attract employees to build those places. It is worth noting that there will be no charging obligation for small houses, and then if you have a company of less than four, even if you have a terraced house, it will not be there — unless you have a bigger row house than four people and you have a full renovation of that house, then you have to build it ready and then you have to be a place to charge. And being ready means practically... Now two things have to be kept separate: the charging point is a working point that can already power into the electric car, so that it can be loaded, and the ready for charging is that, at the design stage, the cables are pulled down and ready so that when someone buys an electric car, then the necessary equipment can be installed at the end of the wire so that it can be loaded. It is worth noting in this climate policy when it is used as a stick horse for quite a number of things, including, first of all, the fact that if we are to multiply the production of electric cars in the world, then at the same time we must create dozens, hundreds more mines in this world. And if I have understood the political climate in this country too, there is a great deal of opposition to more mining. The citizens' initiative aims, among other things, to make the operation of mines impossible and to allow them here in Finland is mainly, I am not saying that it is difficult, but that it is very difficult. Well, then, if we see where those mines are, they're in the Congo, where child labor is brutally used specifically in cobalt mines, and the cobalt is the metal that batteries need a lot. This cannot be the case here that we are in favour of the additional use of electricity, but we are against mines, which, for example, make the materials available to the battery industry. Yes, if we want credibility in the functioning of Parliament and Members of Parliament for their own work, we must have a line of action. At one point we cannot demand the same thing in one place and in another place. It's got to be clear. Let us say one example, Mr President, for my part, of what is sufficient if you want an environmentally friendly car today: For example, I have a six-year-old diesel car, and by buying MY diesel, liquid fully bio-based diesel, at the moment that diesel is pumped into the station, 90% of the emissions from my car fall away. Can you do better environmental work, very quickly, with the same devices, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u151	Mr President! When the new building is completed, it should be in use for at least decades, often even a hundred years or more. So far-reaching decisions are being taken when we define the standards for new construction. There are criticisms here that in future the law will require a certain number of charging points for electric cars to be built in new and renovations, but the regulation of construction always responds precisely to the main needs of people. Mobility is a basic human need, and even this corona crisis is not a reason to slow traffic down to a lower level of emissions. There are criticisms that this law is pre-emphatic, because electric motoring has not yet become mainstream in Finland, but this is precisely something to go one step ahead of, because our real estate stock is renewing very slowly, as I said at the beginning. It is also much easier to purchase an electric car when there is already a place or capacity for charging an electric car in your own living environment — everyone can imagine it. On the other hand, if electric cars were to become more widespread quickly, we would be in a situation where we would not have this capacity to charge, because building these without being connected to new construction or renovation would be significantly more expensive. Changes in the building stock are extremely slow, about one per cent and two classes, and that is why you should be forward-loaded. As has already been pointed out in previous speeches, the limited possibilities for charging are already a bottleneck for increasing the number of electric cars. Mr Hokkonen, perhaps we agree that we need more environmentally friendly mines and more recycling of minerals and metals. It is therefore a good thing that this is what the government is trying to do by reforming the mining legislation. It is a good thing that we raise this problem, even though, in any case, electric motoring as a whole is less emission and more environmentally friendly than other motor vehicles. Of course, we must also remember that reducing car performance is an essential part of making transport more environmentally friendly. In this case, it is important to invest in other modes of transport, walking, cycling and public transport, and the Land Use and Construction Act can also contribute to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-30-ps-42.u152	Mr President! If the government were really up to date at the moment, this whole proposal would have been cancelled because of the interest rate. However, even today, when it has been said that the landlords would be required to reduce the rent and the like, this equation is now not working as it is in any way that we are now trying to reduce all-looking rental jobs, but at the same time we are making new regulations which, so to speak, require additional investments from the landlords, which, of course, will then have to be put into rents in the future. Everyone realizes that even if we talk about this three - month period, which this happens to be, we will certainly be able to balance the economy because of this problem of interest rates for ten years. There is still the situation as a result of the interest rate that, at the moment, fewer people will be able to buy an electric car in the future. In principle, if we consider these emission aspects in this matter in advance, it has not even been theoretically possible in Finland to halve the emissions of traffic in ten years, even if you have as many as half of what we have there, because half of our emissions come from heavy traffic, and the fact that they are halved and reduced does not bring us anywhere near the same results as we achieve on the passenger car side. In this debate in general, it is said that this investment would be for decades when houses are made for decades to come, but which one of you actually believes that this technology, which we are now pushing into the new house, will be used by anyone in ten years' time? We have certainly changed our systems and everything else has changed so much that, in a way, something has to be done in ten years' time for the download infrastructure that is now being built in those new houses. This is not like now trying to feed this ball that hey, this is now a 50-year investment, as long as this house is. This isn't how it works. Everyone knows what technology was ten years ago or not to mention 20 years ago. For example, when we talk about the truck side, we currently have two electric trucks in Finland and both are self-made. There must be wicked changes here, that we actually get into a situation where we could imagine that we now have a finished job that we are doing for decades. It's not really going to work like this. Not to mention the fact that this interest rate has created a situation in which we will not be able to manage this equation financially in any way in the future. - Thank you.
