ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 16/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u2	Mr President! The proposal provides for an experiment whereby some of the hard-to-work employment services would be transferred from the State Employment and Economic Development Offices (TE Offices) to the municipalities. The aim of the experiment is to find out whether the municipal organisation of employment services would improve their effectiveness. The Government’s objective is to raise the employment rate to 75%. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities supports the proposal with some changes and observations: First of all, about timing: The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities is proposing to postpone the entry into force of the experiment until 1.3. As from now, in order to complete the human and IT changes required by the services and legal security of the unemployed. Furthermore, with regard to timing, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities draws attention to the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has pointed out that, due to the urgency of the matter, the preparation has not been fully adequate and that the consultation has been skipped. Again on timing: The committee points out that the restructuring of employment services, in which key decisions were scheduled for the spring of 2021, had to be carried out on the basis of the results of the experiment. Now, in practice, we are in a situation where they are already being carried out at the very beginning of the experiment, when information is not yet available. The committee finds these timetables difficult to reconcile. Then from rehabilitating work activities: The committee believes that the use of rehabilitating work activities should be closely monitored during the experiment. There are indications from previous experiments that the current financial system encourages municipalities to direct even unemployed people who are not fit for the service or for whom it is not appropriate. Cost compensation for self-financed services by municipalities: The committee proposes to extend the criteria for granting the allowance so that in the future it will also be possible to obtain the reimbursement of expenses for the self-financed services provided by municipalities which are agreed in the employment plan and which are thus binding on the unemployed and costing them. In these cases, the allowance would normally be EUR 9 per day, in some cases EUR 18 per day. The transfer of the customer to the municipality: The Constitutional Committee draws attention to the fact that in transferring unemployed job seekers from the Employment and Economic Development Offices to the municipalities, the act contains some exceptions which are not sufficiently precise. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities has therefore made some clarifications in this regard to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Furthermore, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities draws attention to the fact that there is no provision in the proposal for the transfer back to the Employment and Economic Development Office or another than the municipality of residence, although the situation of the unemployed in some situations may require this — for example, in situations where care obligations keep him long in another place — so that his chances of access to employment services are not jeopardised. On this point, the committee has made a statement in which it calls on the government to prepare legislation. The committee has then drawn attention to the fact that as more players enter the field, the risk of red tape and lack of clarity increases. The Committee would point out that the changes must also be well communicated to the unemployed and that, in order to speed up labour market policy opinions in a situation where changes are now being made to their handlers, it is appropriate to postpone the more unemployment protection tasks proposed to the municipalities. The committee has made a second statement on this and has already made some minor comments on the subject in connection with the report. Finally, the central idea of the whole municipal experiment is to collect information. This is the third time that a similar type of experiment is being conducted in Finland, and all of them have had the idea of collecting data on municipalities as providers of employment services. This is why the committee is concerned that, according to the expert opinions it has received, the situation is not possible to collect valid information this time either, as was the case in previous trials. Research interests should have been taken more into account when planning the experiment. The committee therefore encourages the clarification of the research plan to the extent that it is still possible at this stage of the process to improve the focus on information. Mr President! There have also been two objections to the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u3	Mr President! The Finns believe that the reform of services to promote employment is justified. In particular, youth unemployment and unemployment among older people have recently been on the rise and constitute a serious social problem. If a young person does not get a good start in his or her working life, his or her employment will become more difficult in the future and the risk of exclusion will also increase. The social cost of social exclusion for young people is considerable and it is a human tragedy for young people themselves. The fight against youth unemployment therefore requires more effective and influential measures from society. The problem is of a somewhat peculiar nature for older unemployed people. Longer working lives are an important social objective, but often at the same time older workers are made redundant. Reemployment of older unemployed people will be significantly more difficult if they are forced to stay out of work for longer. In order to ensure that their working lives continue, it is of paramount importance that they receive the services they need from the employment services without delay and that special efforts are made towards their employment. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would like to draw attention to the plans that have appeared in public, in which the government has flashed the weakening or total abolition of the so-called pension pipeline. This, if implemented, would lead to a significant deterioration in the position of older unemployed people. In addition to the fact that the government should give priority to the employment of older unemployed in its efforts to extend careers, the Group of the Greens believes that the government should also clarify and remove from the legislation factors which currently undermine employers' interest in employing and keeping older workers at work. Particular attention must be paid to issues that increase the cost of employing older workers in relation to younger people. For the overall benefit of society, it is essential to prevent age discrimination in the labour market and to give older unemployed people their potential support so that they can re-employment and continue their careers up to retirement age. The Group of the Party of European Socialists stresses that, in the case of older unemployed people, special attention should be paid to assessing the individual capacity of each unemployed person to work and, in the event of a significant loss of working capacity, to enabling an older unemployed person to retire with no red tape or humiliation. This will allow the allocation of labour market policy resources to those unemployed who are better placed to find employment. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is opposed to the weakening or abolition of the pension pipeline, particularly as regards the elderly unemployed, for whom society is unable to offer better alternatives. In any case, it would be important for the 55-year-old unemployed to be admitted to the municipal trial in the pilot municipalities as soon as unemployment begins. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats points out that it would be essential to define the objectives of the experiment and the impact assessment criteria carefully in advance when organising municipal experiments such as those presented. Measurements and impact assessments should be carried out already during the experiment in such a way as to benefit from the introduction of a permanent model. It will be untenable if a permanent model is not achieved in this reign either, but a new experiment will be launched in the next term of government. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection considers that the comparison group not included in the experiment as presented is too small. In order to carry out an impact assessment and assess the employment impact of the experiment, the municipalities involved in the experiment should have reference municipalities of a sufficiently similar nature. The Group of the Party of European Socialists also deplores the level and timetable of legislative drafting. Particularly problematic is the lack of awareness about people moving between employment and economic development offices and municipalities and the funding required of municipalities. At the last stage of the parliamentary examination of the bill, it has become apparent that by the beginning of the year, staff from the employment and economic development offices are unlikely to be transferred to the pilot municipalities in order to secure the services and benefit treatment of the municipalities in the pilot area from the beginning of the experiment. In addition, it has emerged that the customer information system of employment and economic development offices will not be available in municipalities from the beginning of the year, which may lead to inadequate or false unemployment benefits. The committee does not consider this acceptable and proposes that the Act on the Local Employment Experiment should not enter into force until 1.3.2021. Costs for municipalities in the pilot area will be incurred by transferring the start-up of the experiment, including the costs of renting and hiring premises, from the planned start-up date of 1 January 2021. The Group of the Party of European Socialists considers it necessary that all the costs of the experiment be reimbursed to municipalities in the pilot regions during January and February. We therefore support the proposal for a statement which requires the government to ensure that the costs incurred by municipalities as a result of the transition to the municipal trial are fully reimbursed. Unemployed job seekers and immigrants under the age of 30 belong to the target group of the experiment, whether or not they are considered to be in a difficult job situation. From an employment point of view, it is also important for older job seekers who receive earnings-related unemployment benefit to provide enhanced and appropriate employment services as soon as unemployment begins, as the Committee also points out. Mr President! We Finns have made two changes to the bill, to Section 4 and Section 13. With these changes we want to take
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u4	Mr President! This bill is to be welcomed, and for that I thank the Government and Minister Haatainen. It is good that these experiments are carried out in municipalities to promote employment and promote employment. And I also particularly welcome the fact that these are targeted specifically at young people, under the age of 30, who, even for a few months, may be affected by unemployment, so that they will be excluded from working life for years and it will always be more difficult to get to work later. However, I draw attention to this, and the committee has also asked about the high employment potential of older unemployed job seekers, and I wonder why this group has not been taken into account here. The employment rate of older people in Finland is clearly below our Nordic control countries. We have a real problem if our system pushes older, motivated unemployed people out of work instead of attracting and encouraging them back to work. In the Finnish Economists survey, as much as 84 per cent considered age discrimination a problem in working life, and age discrimination is still a gender phenomenon, as it is more common among women in the 55-64 age group than among men. Yes, despite a few good experiments, Finnish jobs still lack rules to combat age discrimination. I therefore hope that Mr Haatainen at some point in the debate will answer the question as to why these older unemployed people were not included in this municipal experiment. I would also like to say that I warmly support these amendments made by the people of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u5	Mr President! This is the government's proposal for a municipal experiment in promoting employment. It is important to increase the employment rate, but the objectives of the experiment and the impact assessment criteria must be clearly defined before the experiment. Particular attention must be paid to the fact that the situation of the older unemployed does not deteriorate. The number of older unemployed has nearly tripled over the decade, and the employment rate of the elderly is lower in Finland than in any other Nordic country, as our legislation currently discriminates against the elderly. Employment costs for older people are higher than for younger people, and the pension line also provides the long-term unemployed with the possibility of unemployment allowance until retirement. This needs to change and quickly, as it is essential to provide support for older unemployed people to re-employment and thus prevent the exclusion of older people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u6	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kontula, as chairman for the clear presentation of the report. This bill is necessary. Experiments are needed to find out which factors improve employment and employment — this time on a municipal basis based on employment services. I would like to bring about an approach to continuous learning. One essential way to achieve the employment objective is to develop cooperation between schools, businesses and employment services in the municipalities and in the neighbourhood in a bold and innovative way. It is possible to develop the basics of these collaborations as part of this experiment, which can also be carried out in my own region of Kalajoki. Merijärvi and its neighbours Alavieska, Kalajoki, Oulainen and Ylivieska will be included in the experiment. The main purpose of the municipal experiment is to experiment with the responsibility of municipalities to organise employment services for the residents of the region. As an operator, the municipality is close enough to people, so that a Finnish who needs support for employment can receive tailor-made support close by. In practice, this could mean, for example, analysing the skills needs of companies in a given region with the indicators being developed. Based on these analyses, local educational institutions could provide further training and further training for those working in the region and for the customers of employment services. I attach particular importance to the development of services specifically for young people. This would, in particular, improve access to the labour market for those with a weak labour market status, as their training is often inadequate in relation to demand. Of course, people in work also need training in a rapid change in working life. These must not be mutually exclusive. The draft law would now provide for the organisation of interviews and the assessment of the service needs of the jobseeker. In assessing the situation of a job seeker, it would also be essential to take into account the opportunities for continuous learning. Shorter precision and conversion training opens up important opportunities for municipal experimentation. The educational institutions of the region must be closely involved in the project. Mr President! The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities stresses the importance and importance of appropriate resources for the implementation of the experiment and of cooperation between the various bodies for the success of the experiment. The committee is rightly concerned that, even if this is not justified from the point of view of the customer's need for services, more clients may be directed to rehabilitative work in pilot municipalities. In the Committee's view, particular attention should be paid to clear communication and guidance, both between pilot areas and employment and economic development offices and towards customers. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that the preparation of the proposal was neither appropriate nor consistent with good legislative practice. This is something to learn from. The Administrative Committee drew attention to a situation in which cooperation between the municipalities of the experimental area is not possible for some reason. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities therefore requires that the implementation of co-operation between municipalities be closely monitored and that, if necessary, changes to the legislation be prepared separately. The committee proposes to postpone the start of the experiment from the beginning of the year to the beginning of March. I also consider this change to be justified in terms of the interest rate situation. Mr President! It is necessary to monitor, evaluate, refine and spread the results of this experiment of employment over time from localities and regions to the whole national level: learning from others.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u7	Mr President! Great speeches, and it is very important that this issue is finally moving forward. It is necessary to draw attention to this dissenting opinion of the Finns, which actually knocks out the whole experiment. It would be important to have some answers when you look at how they say that the pilot scheme is inadequate and that there are so many problems in the target group, and immigration policy in particular is in the wrong direction and that the experiment does not lead to a lasting increase in employment — quite harsh accusations and arguments about how this proposal has been prepared. If we think that we are very experienced in Tampere and Pirkanmaa, when we have previously been involved in the employment experiment, then the researchers' analysis of the results achieved did urge us to continue these experiments, and then we would have liked to continue even more quickly, but there was a slight break. Perhaps the most important thing is also to take account of the unemployed who need the services and also of the soft means involved in the process. Yes, the fact that we once got personal trainers and took note of the whole fact that not only did we think that a person who was looking for a job, as if he were kicking and being in an agency, but this was where the whole service palette was coordinated, so customer satisfaction rose and, above all, there were encounters there. In other words, at least the experiences that were collected there at the time indicated that this must now be taken forward. And this motion, which we now have, does support it. And the great majority behind this in this Chamber is telling us that this issue has been addressed, that this is being strongly promoted and that the municipalities are strongly committed to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u8	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for his sound critical attitude during the committee debate. I understand that the committee as a whole regretted the urgency with which this has been done, and also, as mentioned in that report, these consultations and other matters which have not been properly dealt with when the legislative proposals were drawn up. I think we all agree on this. This is the overall difficulty that Mr Ovaska has already raised in his own speech, that why is there now a difference of opinion, why the Finns have gone on to express a different position here and to criticise the whole. The need for personal advice both on the social side and on the TE side is obvious. This is reflected in social security matters of the Social Insurance Institution, income support issues, all over the world. People are currently in need of personal advice. In that sense, it is very understandable that, especially for the unemployed on the part of the municipality, getting this kind of personal advice is a very positive thing. We do not disagree on this. But the problem with increasing such tasks is that they become public tasks, and at the same time we should have a private side to present revenue-generating activities. So for this reason, since we are using this to increase public spending that is justified and necessary, their targeting would really be important. And with regard to this experiment, there are certain challenges to be faced in this direction and, as Mrs Lehto has pointed out here, our objections have already been raised, for example, now that we know that the pension pipeline is going out — it is coming, although the Left Alliance seems to be trying to oppose it, but the centre-driven pension line is being removed — but we would have been able to anticipate this by taking into account already at this point the fact that the older unemployed, the 55 plus unemployed, would be brought into line with increased employment. Another point that has not been taken into account in the debate is that the overall picture is slightly fragmented. On the other hand, we move tasks away from the municipalities to bigger shoulders, and on the other hand we add them to the municipal level. There's a point here. I understand that there are certainly more detailed information in small municipalities about the employment opportunities and the unemployed, but I really hope that there will be some kind of overall view of the matter, that is, if we are building a regional government and then transferring the tasks of the Employment and Economic Development Offices to municipalities and so on and so on, and then the funding that will be achieved. But one of the major challenges is precisely this cakemaker-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-cake-crea-crea-citizen jobs we need, but if we do not have jobs in the private sector in equal proportion, then we are really in a tight spot. In fact, it will still have to be said to Mr Ovaska that in this proposal, when you criticise the views of the Finns in question and the fact that we reject this experiment, yes, the problem with targeting is that we are lumping immigrants, young people, unemployed people, middle-aged people, everything like one bundle, that is, if the doctor who moved to the country is unemployed, he is now in a better position or better position here than a Finnish worker who becomes unemployed at 55 plus age.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u9	Mr President! Local employment trials play an important role when we want to improve the employment rate and, in particular, to improve the conditions for the employment of those in a weak labour market position. This package of services will be coordinated in a new way as a result of the experiments. This is why cooperation between the various actors is particularly important. In its report, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities stresses the need for flexible cooperation with municipalities, the TE administration, the third sector and other actors, taking account of the needs of customers and employers and of regional and local specificities. The fact that many actors are involved and some of the services remain on the side of the Employment and Economic Development Offices may give rise to confusion, and that is why it is really important for us to provide adequate information and guidance, especially in the early stages of experiments. An effective flow of information between authorities is essential, and at the same time towards customers. In addition, adequate resources for the various actions are essential. This is important at the start of the experiments, and the situation must also be monitored as the experiment progressed, and we were also very united in the committee work. Mr President! There is good experience of local employment experiments and they are a necessary tool for improving the employment rate. I feel it is important that the government has gone ahead with the experiments in such a wide-ranging way. The objectives of the experiments are very important, and that is why it is also necessary to attach action to their success. Most importantly, the municipalities involved in the experiments are strongly committed to the objectives. The success of every major reform is always very important in terms of implementation, and here, too, many of us Members of Parliament, in our own countries, when the municipal trials begin, have a big role to play. Do we want to succeed or do we want to fail? It is also clear that there is now a great deal of information on experiments that can be used in the future to organise employment services. Therefore, careful monitoring of the reform is absolutely essential, because experiments cannot go on forever and, if successful, must become permanent practices. Then, as far as this two-month extension is concerned, the law will not come into force on 1 January 2021, but only then at the beginning of March: it has not been much questioned here in the Chamberwork, but for quite understandable reasons this correction has been made during this reading, because it has become clear to us during the course of the proceedings that there are not yet enough staff to be transferred to the experimental centres, that is to say that there would have been no staff at that stage if the law had been put into effect on 1 January. Then, as well, as a second: there is great variation in the level of preparedness in the municipalities, and then we also learned that the software house Information is not able to make use of these systems, which means that customer information systems would not have been in the condition of 1 January 2021 that these pilot municipalities, and especially those unemployed, would have earned. On this point, I would also like to say a special thank you to Mr Haatainen and his private office and, of course, to colleagues in committee, because this has undeniably been a rather challenging piece of work for us in committee and has also been able to do so in good cooperation with the opposition parties, even though these differences exist in this bill. And then perhaps the fact that this possible abolition of the pension line, which is now very important in this proposal for a municipal trial law, has also been referred to, and perhaps we will be able to deal with it in the future, and I hope that it will not be so much confused with this law, which is now important to bring into force on 1.3., and it is also important for the whole of Parliament to achieve the highest possible employment rate in this interest rate situation and challenge.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u10	Mr President! The experiments are always good, but at this point I must say that this is the moment when we really need to pump out all the information that comes out of this experiment, and in that sense there will certainly still be ministers working together so that we can really get all the necessary information so that we can do not experiment but then make lasting solutions to these problems of employment, like the representative. The trout in that speech said. It is good that the age group of under 30 and the young people who are now at the heart of this is at the heart of this, because we know that the lengthening of unemployment is unfortunately an excellent tool for opening up exclusion. In that sense, it is important that, as soon as unemployment begins, we are involved in the everyday lives of these young people and allow this personal guidance, so that the young person is not left alone to think about what he is doing, but that assistance is available, and precisely so that it takes place on a personal level. It is important to note that the 55-year-olds have now been excluded from this, but I hope that in the future the government will take action to find tools for these older unemployed who can help and take action to increase the attractiveness of older and older unemployed people on the labour market. I'm sure there'll be tools for that if there's a will. It may cause a little so-called structural debate, how we can do it and there are now no constitutional obstacles to the fact that a certain age group will then receive some benefit, but in particular, action is required to make older unemployed people an attractive option for employers, and not to be afraid of high contributions through unemployment or illness. This is the path that has already been taken, and it is certainly good to take new steps now. Mr President! I am pleased, however, that we are now moving in the direction of being active and approaching the unemployed, within the scope of the services that enable us to find a job.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u11	Mr President! Indeed, thank you to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities for a very thorough report and also for important comments. Many of the points in the proposal have been clarified in committee. And, of course, I would also like to thank the Minister for being here and for bringing this matter forward. This government proposal therefore extends the local employment test by adding six new regions to the scope of the action. In addition to this, the areas set out in the original proposal are being extended, and this is very sensible. The local employment experiment is one measure to promote employment. The experiment is also important because as many Finns as possible can get the services they need in a close and tailor-made way. I also think that this is at the heart of this proposal: action from man to man. Through this experiment, we will collect information and also help to shift the focus of labour market policy from unemployment to employment, i.e. from unemployment to employment. This is absolutely crucial for us to take a position on employment factors, not only to manage, but to act in such a way that a person meets a person's work and work meets a person. The pilot is also important because the promotion of employment is also very much a matter of moving with work and entrepreneurship. There is rarely any wiser way. As a result of the municipal experiments, I believe that we are breaking down the structures of yesterday's world and building decentralised services to improve the opportunities for working life and the vitality of the regions. President! The starting point for the experiment is cooperation between municipalities. Recognizing this fact and acting from that point of view is the beginning of wisdom. So thank you to the committee, thank you to the minister who is preparing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u12	Mr President! First, I'd like to make sure that there's no one here with the wrong idea: The over-visits at the end of their working lives are far from being excluded from this experiment, but they are not subjected to the same total transfer as those under the age of 30. In other words, they are also subject to an experiment if they are covered by labour market support or basic daily allowance, i.e. they are not entitled to earnings-related benefits. And this dispute over whether or not they should be there concerns only older age groups with earnings-related earnings. This is a clarification that we are all on the same map in this debate. Then I would like to draw attention to one thing that bothers me very much, which did not end up in that report, and I am very concerned that it has not ended up in this Chamber debate either, namely that the whole idea of the job is that when the municipalities have social services, to some extent also know-how and business services, the municipalities are able to provide cross-administratively more efficiently and better services than the TE Offices could. Well, at the same time, we are thinking of transferring these employment services to the municipalities on this principle and reforming the social welfare system, in which the social services, which play a very central role, especially for those who are hard to employ, are being transferred to the regional level from which they are very difficult to employ to the municipalities, and this is totally illogical. And I think we should talk out loud about the fact that this is such a logical mistake, and I wonder what kind of opposition we have when not even this pays any attention. I asked the experts and received an answer that they would stay in the municipalities for the knowledge and business services. Yes, but knowledge and business services are more important for those segments of the unemployed who are not the most vulnerable, whose employment is not the most difficult and who are mainly also those that are not now being transferred to the municipalities in this experiment. I just need some consistency in this Finnish administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u13	Mr President! In itself, this government proposal for a municipal test of employment promotion is to be welcomed. However, the government proposal does not take into account everything that is necessary, as has been shown here. For example, according to a report received by the committee, some of the municipalities interested in the experiment would like to see it possible to transfer the experiment to a joint municipal authority. The Government’s proposal should therefore be specified in order to enable municipalities to organise the tasks provided for in the pilot law so that they can also agree to transfer the responsibility for organising to a consortium of municipalities belonging to the pilot area. The assembly has objected to this. Furthermore, our second objection concerns the need for the government to ensure full compensation for the costs incurred by municipalities for the transition to the municipal trial. Since the financing base of our welfare society is seriously threatened by explosive indebtedness and high structural unemployment, raising the employment rate is a matter of fate for our country and every possible means must be put in place. Therefore, such proposals aimed at improving the employment situation are necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u14	Mr President! There is little history here, because this is exactly the kind of thing we tried to do last season. In my opinion, when we are discussing whether it should be in a supra-municipal province or should it be in municipalities, it is absolutely essential that it should be there in the municipalities. I think this is excellent. Of course these things, that the costs will be reimbursed and so on and so on, and we understand that very well, and when I have been with these things quite a bit myself, I also understand that this social welfare and health care and well-being side likes it, but unemployment is not a disease, and that is why I do not see that it necessarily needs to be there in the same way as social welfare. This must be precisely in the municipalities, because that is where the jobs are created. There are entrepreneurs, there are employers and this is the vitality of the municipalities. According to the Municipal Act, municipalities are responsible for promoting the well-being of people, and that welfare is also employment, employment. And it is precisely by making those life-saving measures and increasing their vitality that employment is increased, and it is mainly that people who are there and who know about their skills, their resources and are able to think about different options, because not everyone is able to do all the work and others are good for each other and others are good for the other. It is important that such multi-professional cooperation should play anyway, because it is true that these people, those who have been unemployed for a long time, also have problems where social and health care assistance is needed and then a great deal of multi-faceted assistance, and then, of course, it must be obtained and played. This is, above all, a good direction for the municipalities to take the catch.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u15	Mr President! Mr Kontula criticised the opposition for not being strong enough. Well, yes, if necessary, we can be, but perhaps there is a question here that is not simple either that or that. I myself think a little in an intermediate way, in a way, that it is good that the big cities have a greater responsibility, and perhaps here the greater challenge was related to the flow of information in the past that the municipality is informed of the unemployed who have been unemployed for a long time, and then, at that early stage, will be able to bring the services to the side. However, I believe that it also has a certain value to offer those social and health services, if necessary, in the same administration. For example, we in Vantaa now have the good situation that we are about to embark on this experiment with the municipality of employment together with Kerava, and then we are planning to have this integrated welfare area, so in that sense the problem should not come, and in that sense the municipality's organization will be dealing with this, so that is how we will have to go beyond the organisational boundary. I see, however, that it may be challenging to think in such a way that, in the future, every small municipality will be able to carry out this task; perhaps in smaller municipalities this will have to be done more in cooperation. And that brings us to the bigger question: are we going to continue to have exactly the same tasks for all the municipalities, or are there going to be some sort of differentiation? This is probably one of the bigger debates that will have to take place at some point if we maintain this current municipal structure. The government's proposal as such is a positive step, and I am glad that this issue, which has already started in the last period, is now starting to move forward. And I hope that this will also be completed in a methodical manner — in accordance with the wishes of the Kontula too — so that the results of the experiment can then be implemented permanently if they are positive. But I believe that when municipalities have a wide range of know-how and services at their disposal, especially for young people, who are, however, a large target group, and when unemployment among young people has now increased greatly, even as a result of the interest rate, this will bring new tools and assistance, opportunities to help young people, then the municipalities. Let us hope, of course, that this experiment will have a windfall.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u16	Mr President! In Mr Ovaska’s speech, I was surprised at the criticisms he made of this protest against the Finns of Peru, including against immigration. In my own speech, I supported this protest from the Finns of Peru, and I have now read through it many times, and I find no anti-immigrationism there. I am also very much in favour of including these immigrants and foreign-speaking people who receive earnings-related unemployment benefit in this municipal experiment, and yes I am reading this protest from the Basic Finns so that they too would be included in the municipal experiment. But I think it is also important here to use this carrot, soft means, to extend working careers from the end, so I think it is important to include earnings-related unemployment benefit for older people, aged 55 to 60, in these municipal trials. People in their 50s and 60s are often still motivated, in good condition, they do not have the family restrictions that younger workers have, and the value of training and skills acquired over the years is by no means diminishing with age, on the contrary it is increasing. Extending working lives is one of the key ways to remedy the problems of our national economy, and I still wonder why these older workers were not taken into this, especially those who receive earnings-related unemployment benefit. Perhaps Minister Haatainen will be able to clarify this for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u17	Mr President! Raising employment is one of the main objectives of the current regime. Employment pilots are an important tool for looking for practices, and during the experiment, information and experience on these are collected. Local government experiments also strengthen the Government’s objective of implementing permanent structural reform of employment services, which strengthens the role of municipalities as the organiser of employment services. Part of the tasks of TE Offices will be transferred to municipalities for the duration of the experiment and it will be examined whether organising a municipal service improves the effectiveness of promoting employment. In particular, large cities have good know-how, business and business networks and, above all, an interest in doing the job well. The report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities contains many good withdrawals. For example, it is necessary to change the start of the trial period to the beginning of March, since by the beginning of the year the necessary number of staff will not be transferred and recruited to the pilot municipalities in order to secure the services and benefit treatment of the residents of the pilot area from the beginning of the experiment. It is important that the experiment can be carried out in a high-quality manner so that the experience and information it provides can be used as much as possible in subsequent decision-making and development work. When experimenting with municipalities for employment, it is important that the experiment highlights the diversity of customers and different service needs. The unemployed are certainly not a monolithic monolith, but a multiplicity of people with different backgrounds, needs and work history. For the greater part, however, the need is the same, i.e. finding a job. It is therefore important that this holistic approach can be implemented at grass-roots level. Mr President! The Korona virus and the social changes it brings have hit young people particularly hard. The mental health challenges and learning difficulties raised by Korona have all made it difficult for young people to find employment in the future. Young people should therefore be given special consideration in the employment experiment. As the committee has emphasised in its report, it is extremely good and great that unemployed job seekers under the age of 30 belong to the target group of the experiment, regardless of whether or not they are considered to be in a difficult employment situation. The cabs offer a wide range of services for young people at different stages of their lives. It would therefore be good to ensure that the Ohjaamos are taken into account in the pilot areas as part of the service structure of young people and that there is a Ohjaamo service available to young people. Furthermore, I would also like to call for the same consistency as Mr Kontulak and perhaps Mr Multala too,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u18	Mr President! My answer to Risiko is: Yes, unemployment is not a disease in itself, but the role of social services in the management of unemployment is obvious. We have 30,000 people who are able to work, 5,000 people who are unemployed and a significant number who benefit from social services in a way or another. This is why the whole of this long municipal experiment has played a central role in the argument that social services and the management of employment have been brought together, particularly in the case of hard-to-work groups. And if any promise has been made in this great report by the municipalities, it is precisely the synergies that result from this, which would then produce better and more comprehensive management of employment. That is why the question is not resolved by stating that the municipalities have the vital services and that education services remain in the municipalities. If we want to emphasise these again, then perhaps the area of employment would be the relevant place in which they are managed — also bearing in mind that a significant proportion of education services are, however, wider services than just municipal services, especially when it comes to adult people. As far as the response to the Coalition Party is concerned, this matter of the Joint Municipal Authority did not come to us in any way in the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. If the Association of Local and Regional Authorities works in such a way as to send an e-mail to only one representative of the Assembly but is not in timely contact with the committee in any way in due time, then it will be a little difficult for us to go on this basis alone to re-word the articles. In other words, I hope that such an experienced influence and lobbyist as the Association of Local and Regional Authorities will be able to do more than send an e-mail to Mr Satonen, if it is serious — even in a way that the objection must be put on the table — to make something happen in our legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u19	Mr President! Mr Kontula is absolutely right about how important it is to integrate these social services into this problem — we are currently in a very difficult situation with regard to employment, and that would of course take more than that, but it is true. Even when I started in the field of social services, musculoskeletal diseases were the basic reason why people were left unemployed or on disability pensions, and now it is mental health problems. With regard to what has been said here about cooperation between municipalities, I fully agree that stronger forms of cooperation are certainly even better than what is being done at the moment. It is certainly not only small municipalities that can do this alone, but either in cooperation or in administrative cooperation. But it would be precisely that local government representation and locality, because that person lives there in the municipality and the welfare of the municipality here, on the other hand, is increased by that employment, but also by that individual. Nor can I say here that, since mental health problems are the main cause of disability at the moment, we would have a very large number of people who would like to come to work, but they have a long-term illness or, for example, depression — which has certainly worsened in recent times — and I will just say how important it would be to have that therapeutic guarantee now. Think of it, that price would bark, 35 million in all this bankruptcy where we are now — shouldn't it be worth it? At the time when we were in a state of war, there were wise decision -makers, and they began to build mental health after the wars. Now we should do the same thing, therapy guarantee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u20	Minister Haatainen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u21	Mr President! I thank the committee for its good work. This is a huge administrative reform that is now being launched through this experiment. Here will be 230,000 customers moving now according to the latest employment and unemployment statistics. In line with the Government Programme, this now aims to achieve these objectives in order to increase the employment rate and also to strengthen the role of municipalities as the organiser of employment services. In other words, this is to seek effectiveness and to ensure that all players play together better. There has also been a debate here on how the reform of the service structure in social and health care is going to be in these well-being areas, and here we are going to go to the municipalities, which is, of course, where it will require good cooperation, but it will be a matter for the future. Now we are also getting information from this experiment about how this is playing together. In other words, when this experiment starts, this now requires good cooperation between municipalities as well as between TE Offices, TE Administration and municipalities, among all actors. It was asked why these 55 plus or older unemployed people are not involved — Mr Räsänen asked in particular. That is a good question, but at this point this is all well thought out because when an aged person becomes unemployed, the most important thing for him is that he should be able to move from work to work, and now these security services for change remain in the TE Offices, and that is why it is important that they stay in that context. In other words, not all older people have been transferred here at this stage, but only those who have been unemployed for a long time, that is, the aged long-term unemployed, will be involved in this municipal experiment, just as the chairman of the committee, Mr Kontula, said earlier. Well then on this comparison and the fact that experiments have been carried out in the past: It is just that there is no proper knowledge of these experiments. This will now involve continuous monitoring, i.e. continuous monitoring of the success of this experiment. Throughout the journey, we get direct information about what is being done here and what is happening, and we can also see that everything is going to be right. This will then become the subject of the TEAS research evaluation, which will be carried out as a joint research and research project by the Government, and will then determine the employment and well-being effects of this entity. The fact that this entry into force provision will then have to be postponed for two months also has the background to this interest rate, which has contributed to everything that has been done during this interest rate in these information system solutions in order to adapt them to the various changes that have now been made with the various temporary derogations. They have all had to be driven there into new information systems and it has slowed down the introduction of this information system, which is absolutely essential here. That is why it is good that the committee moved this starting date to 1.3. so that no unemployed person loses their social security and that no one falls out of this system. In other words, these effects of the interest rate are reflected on many sides, which means that there has been no additional resources to make these information systems. Everything has been done there to ensure, among other things, that unemployment security for entrepreneurs has now been organised, that information systems had to be created, as well as restaurant credits, that all of them had to be made their own decisions. So it has affected this timetable, but I am sure everyone will understand that this is the case. The fact that this law is now at this stage, that it is ready for adoption and out, seems to me to be a great thing, and now we are going to be able to prepare and at the same time go through how to draw up permanent legislation, and that is where we will get the good and necessary information and experience from this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u22	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u23	Mr President! This is a proposal to reduce early childhood education contributions to families with children on low incomes by raising the income limits for contributions and also to reduce the fees for siblings by 40% of the calculated contribution for the youngest child. This is a very good and worthwhile reform, but even if this sister discount is raised here, early childhood education fees will continue to be a significant item of expenditure for families with more than one child in day care. This applies in particular to families whose income exceeds the income limits and who pay the full early childhood education premium. At first reading and also in its own alternative budget, our parliamentary group suggested that, as part of this reform of early childhood education fees, these fees should be abolished as a whole from siblings when the family has more than one child in early childhood education. In this way, families would pay a maximum of EUR 288 per month, regardless of how many children the family has in day care. Our proposal would improve employment even more strongly than the government's proposal and remove incentives traps, making it more profitable for parents of families with many children to take up the job. It is hoped that these reforms will also have positive effects on the birth rate: they would encourage the family to pursue the number of children the family wants. I would add that this proposal by the Christian Democrats compared to this government proposal would mean a reduction of EUR 35 million in early childhood education contributions and in our own alternative budget we will also propose how this lost income would be balanced. Of course, the revenue lost must be fully reimbursed to municipalities through the central government share of municipalities. This report also contains two objections which will certainly be presented here in the future. Personally, I think they are also very much to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u24	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the law on early childhood education fees so that customer fees for early childhood education are reduced by 31%. In addition, it is proposed to reduce the fees for siblings to 40% of the calculated full-time early childhood education fee for the second child. As a result of this change, municipal revenue is estimated to decrease by around EUR 70 million. This will be compensated by the allocation of a larger share of corporate tax revenue to municipalities. According to the Association of Finnish Local Government, the factors determining the distribution of municipal corporation tax are not related to the population structure of municipalities or to the income from early childhood education fees. The planned compensation model would mean that some municipalities would receive too much and some too little compensation for loss of customer income. In addition, the proposed compensation model is not in line with the planned social welfare reform, where around one third of the share of municipal corporation tax is being transferred to established welfare areas. Mr President! I shall make a statement in accordance with protest 1 of the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u25	Mr President! I support the statement made by Mr Koponen. The proposal to reduce early childhood education fees is very welcome and welcome. In its own alternative budget, the Coalition Party proposed an additional 30 million reductions in early childhood education fees. This could be done, for example, as Mr Räsänen suggested, i.e. by abolishing, for example, the early childhood education contributions of another child or by further lowering the early childhood education fees of more children and of one child. This proposal in itself is a good one, a step in the right direction, and will continue the work started during the last government term to reduce early childhood education fees. This proposal actually presents two challenges: The first is what Mr Koponen has already said, namely compensation to municipalities for the fall in early childhood education income, according to this proposal, is to be made by changing the share of corporate tax revenue. It targets municipalities in a different proportion than there are children aged between 0 and 6 years in the municipalities. That is why compensation should have been made through state subsidies, so that compensation would have been more targeted at those municipalities where there are more children who, hopefully, are more diligent in early childhood education, with this proposal participating. This was the first challenge. The second challenge here is that this applies to municipal early childhood education. However, many municipalities have a large share of private early childhood education and may have different forms of early childhood education. These are supported by private care support and, on the other hand, municipalities may provide their own service vouchers. However, this bill cannot affect the value of service vouchers or private care support, it should be regulated separately. Thus, when municipal and private early childhood education is slightly off the line here, there is a risk that municipal early childhood education will become crowded and private early childhood education will become unprofitable. The risk, therefore, is that in the future the municipalities with a high share of private early childhood education will, firstly, receive, as it were, less compensation if they want to continue to regard private early childhood education as an equal alternative for all families, and, secondly, if this is not the case, then the number of early childhood education places may fall in the future. I therefore propose that ‘the Council of State ensures equal opportunities for families, irrespective of the income level of the early education provider’.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u26	Mr President! There is a lot of good in this government proposal, and one can say that this is exactly where we should go. In other words, it is good to lower these customer fees in early childhood education all the time. This in particular increases incentives and takes away incentive traps for its part. Proposals for statements have been tabled here, and they were precisely those that rose in the debate in our committee. The second was precisely where they are compensated for by the municipalities. This increase in the share of corporation tax was found to be very unfair because it is not evenly distributed to the municipalities and it is not necessarily compensated for those who lose a lot of these returns. The second was this concern about whether families will have equal opportunities in the future to choose a provider of early childhood education regardless of the level of income. So it means very much to parents that they have quality early childhood education, and also that it can be used smoothly. Many times, those business trips when you have to go back and forth, it is important that it is there along the way. Of course, the quality side is ahead, but it also matters how far the child is taken. It is also a question of coping with a child. That is why it is important that these options for choice remain, and now there is little concern about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u27	Mr President! As Mr Multala said, this proposal is a continuum for the reduction of early childhood education fees initiated by the Sipilä Government during the last parliamentary term. During the last parliamentary term, these payments were reduced twice and this experiment in the free early childhood education of five-year-olds, which has continued during this parliamentary term, is a good and logical continuum. Of course, investing in children is always human and in the interests of society. Early childhood education is a safe place for children to play, learn and grow. The essence of this proposal is also to improve the livelihood of low-income families. Quality and affordable early childhood education services can improve the opportunities for parents of young children to participate in working life. Lowering early childhood education fees will promote the employment of parents of young children and also increase the participation rate of early childhood education, and of course employment will also have a fiscal strengthening effect, for example as tax revenue increases and social security expenditure decreases. The Government's proposal increases the income limits for early childhood education and increases the sister discount. It is thought that the performance will bring some 20,000 new families into free early childhood education. As the income thresholds for the contribution are raised, new low-income families will become fully free of charge in early childhood education and the payments for early childhood education in middle-income families will be reduced. President! I also consider the previous speeches to be valuable — Mr Koponen, Mr Multala and Mr Risikko. Critical elements may exist precisely for private early childhood education and also for some municipalities in compensation for contributions, but all in all this is a well-supported proposal and an excellent thing on behalf of families of young children.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u28	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kivisaari, for your constructive speech. President! I support Mr Multala's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u29	Mr President! To conclude, I would like to say the same thing that Mr Kivisaari has already said, namely that there is also an excellent example of a means of employment, which certainly no one can claim is a hard policy, but rather a means of employment that everyone is in favour of and which at the same time improves the opportunities for children to participate in early childhood education without prejudice to payments and, on the other hand, creates incentives for employment, especially for families with low and middle incomes, or at least remove obstacles to employment. Mr President! At the end of the day, however, I still have to say that I am concerned about the municipal economy. A number of proposals have now been introduced by the government, which do not fully compensate for the costs incurred by municipalities or, for example, in this case, reductions in payments. We know that this year the government has made a significant contribution to local government finances by providing various kinds of subsidies, i.e. even direct subsidies to municipalities and health care districts or public transport, which will also affect local government finances, but in the coming years there will certainly not be such an opportunity, and yet the municipalities will ultimately be those who mainly produce those early childhood education services and thus ensure that every child really has that good, high-quality early childhood education. I therefore hope that in future the government will draw attention to the fact that when new services or obligations are made to municipalities, which may be very good, such as the reduction in early childhood education fees, for example, their impact will be fully compensated by municipalities so that the effects do not appear elsewhere in terms of savings or adjustments. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u30	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u31	Mr President! We have a Government proposal to the Parliament for a law on Senate real estate and About defence property and some related laws. This is a long-awaited law and legal reform, and for a new Member of Parliament this was the first law I had expected and which we then raised in the Committee on Defence about a year and a half ago. This had previously been the Parliament's very broad idea of how this should be carried out, and there was a good common view of this kind, both studied by both experts and experts, that Defence property is separated from the Senate, and this was some kind of shock to the new representative when this matter was presented in the Committee on Defence and it was said that it would become a Senate subsidiary. This is completely contrary to common sense. I do not believe that this meets the criteria that were expected of it. Mr President! During the Senate, caves have been sold for the control of the Defence Forces, for example from Rovaniemi and Turku, either near the city centre or close to the targets of the Defence Forces at a ridiculous price, and I think that this has been a very bad development as a result of this, and I would see that: Defence properties should not be subject to the Senate at all. I could personally compare this with this: If I went to a place to live there for a long time and I found one free place there for myself, and well, then I start to notice problems like this, as has been the case in the Senate, that there have been some differences of opinion with the Defence Forces and the Senate about the condition of the buildings, or that there has been a bit of a problem with the janitor's services that have not worked properly or has not worked, or maybe there has been too much sand somewhere or too little sand there has been, and the indoor air has been a bit of a problem, too, if I had rented it from the person A and now I would contact the person A and say that there are problems of this kind, so if the person A solved this problem in such a way that everything else would remain the same but moved to his daughter's names, then I think this is just the same situation. The assumption is that these things do not change enough. I think this is a weak solution. Too much time has been spent on this. A much better solution would have been to: The defence properties would have been completely separated from the Senate as their own company. Then the Ministry of Defence would be the one whose administration it belongs to, and not, as it is now, that this goes through the Ministry of Finance, and I still think that this will be a problem in such a way that there is no such direct connection. There will probably be all sorts of problems in terms of information security and the movement of information and the flow of information. And the rent level has been the reason for the unfortunate amount of these being moved away first from the use of the Defence Forces and then on such strategically important, important items have been sold in public, and unfortunately not all of these have gone into Finnish hands because there is no restrictions on the new owner of these sales. Mr President! I think this is a bad bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u32	Mr President! Parliament has long assessed the operations of the Senate real estate company and sometimes very critically over the years. Criticism has focused mainly on the increase in rent costs for Senate customers as a result of the operating model. In particular, in our security sector, namely the Defence Forces, the police and the Border Guard, the rents of the premises used by the operators have risen sharply over the years and there has been no sign of the art. One day, a leader of one of the above-mentioned organisations said to me, horribly, that, at this rate, before long, all operating appropriations will be used up for rent and that no actual activity can be carried out at all. Perhaps this is not what is happening, but the phrase reflects the atmosphere in the field. During the previous parliamentary term, it was decided to resolve this issue, and it was proposed that a model be prepared for the establishment of a real estate establishment for operators on the security side. This issue was further refined by the fact that first such separation would take place in relation to the Defence Forces’ real estate, i.e. the creation of the Defence Properties company, which would possibly operate under the authority of the Ministry of Defence. The government's proposal now before us is a shadow of this original idea, since defence property would be established as a subsidiary of the Senate, i.e. in reality the steering model would not change in particular. The property of the Defence Forces is of great importance to our defence and preparedness as well, and it would be natural for the related property know-how and operations to be entirely under direct management of the defence sector, which is the main responsibility of the defence sector. So now we are making the original idea of one ministry, one business model doubles the complexity, i.e. defence properties would continue to operate under two ministries, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defence and with the strength of two companies. It has been said that you can live with the decision that has been made. Well, this shouldn't be enough for us in Parliament. We must strive for good decisions and solutions. I believe that the model of defence property operating under the auspices of the Ministry of Defence as an institution and in the most efficient way is not really being clarified, and that is one of the reasons why we object and make our statement. Mr President! I raise an objection to the motion for a rejection, which is annexed to the report. Further, we make a statement: ‘The government requires that a draft law be prepared by the Government,which proposes the creation of an autonomous real
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u33	Mr President! It is a good thing to start a reform in order to curb the costs of Senate real estate. The cost of the military’s space has increased dramatically, making up about 11 per cent of the total cost of military defence. At the end of this road, there will be a reduction in military activity if real estate expenditure continues to increase. The proposed reform is a step forward, but the subsidiary model brings new problems. The guidance of the two ministries tends to confuse the packaging, which is also identified in the committee's report and proposed to be followed up in the draft statement. The government's proposal explicitly recognises that the savings resulting from it are modest. The arrangement is seen to enable the Defence Forces to curb the increase in the costs of office space in the long term. Over the first five to ten years, the cost-saving effect of the reform is only around EUR 5 million per year. In addition, savings will be offset by one-off costs of a million-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousandths at the start of operations. However, the original objective has been to halt the increase in real estate expenditure and why there has not even been a reduction in costs in the hopes. I do not believe that the change that has been proposed is in line with the critical assessment of the Senate property rental model previously required by the committee. Mr President! The status of personnel must be safeguarded and the special expertise of the civil defence real estate administration must be maintained. The proposal of the Board of Directors secures the status of personnel for a limited period of time through the transfer of the movement. What happens after this, however, is a mystery. There are cautionary examples. The future of the performance is otherwise obscure. The Ministry of Finance directs Senate real estate and would therefore strongly define the activities of Defence Real Estate. The good thing about the committee's report is that: Defence properties are proposed to have their own CEO with responsibilities. However, the Senate Real Estate Board would continue as the highest decision-making body and no representative of the Defence Real Estate will be represented. However, the defence forces' properties can be seen to have a special defence perspective and related expertise. The expert reports on the subject also support the model of real estate administration, which would be in the hands of the Ministry of Defence's business as part of the Defence Administration. In addition, the problems associated with Senate property are not limited to the Defence Forces. Among other things, the building mass of the police, Customs and Border Guard is under the Senate properties, and the above-mentioned operators are struggling with cost pressures similar to those of the Defence Forces. The whole of the real estate administration needs to be examined further. Mr President! I support the proposals made by Mr Kopra, that is to say this objection and statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u34	Mr President! on this Government proposal on Senate real estate and Interesting and good speeches have been made on defence property by committee members. However, I think it is appropriate to take some other aspects into account. We share the concern about the way in which the development of the defence forces' property and space costs in recent years and decades has gone. I myself have said in committee that if this model of capital rent were to proceed, which has hitherto been put inside the Defence Forces, this model of capital rental could be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, because the Defence Forces had no chance of reducing the increase in the costs of the premises in their budget, which would ultimately have led to the mere fact that there was money for the premises. The Defence Forces have 2.8 million square metres of space, and this whole area is well described in this committee's report. The book value is over EUR 1 billion, and the costs of premises, rents, an annual amount of 268 million, of which, in line with the model of capital rent, the Senate will receive 152 million, i.e. a huge amount of money. During the last parliamentary term in the Committee on Defence, we drew attention to the need to change this, and then we proposed that the Defence Forces should set up their own property organisation. That is what I was doing in the Administrative Committee for the police and the Border Guard, for Customs and so on, for the security forces. But then, under the government negotiations, the message of this motion came from the Ministry of Defence itself. The Ministry of Defence itself, as we have been told, saw the need to involve the Senate properties in this business, to make it a joint venture. So this idea came not from the government but from the Ministry of Government and Government itself, the Ministry of Defence. They argued, among other things, that this connection with Senate property competence and that organisation and the Ministry of Finance must in any case be managed in one way or another and that this model will enable the Defence Forces themselves to come up with the structure that clearly emerges from this report when you get to know it, for the first time properly and decisively and in accordance with the plan to tackle this increase in farm costs, so that we can cut off the negative development that has been going on for decades. Mr President! If you will allow me, to this end, to secure the status of staff: This is an absolute priority for us in this government, and I hope that the next governments will stick to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u35	Mr President! That is where Mr Kari made a very good speech — and thank you also to the previous ones — I will not duplicate it completely. Perhaps it is good to point out here that there is, however, a broad view behind it that this is going in a significantly better direction with this proposal and that this proposal is well placed to meet the challenges and achieve the objectives behind it. Therefore, I think it is perhaps extraordinary to say — or may say so, but I really do not think so — that this is a bad proposal. We have had a good debate here and we have had a long way to go as to whether this is an adequate proposal and whether this is a well-founded solution. As such, I think it is good to take into account that we have the same aim of reducing space costs in order to afford to use those facilities, but then we also have the need for strategic space management: an appropriate use that responds to changes in the security environment, the development of facilities, new investments and this type of investment, so that, in the interests of security, we have the best possible facilities for the use of the Defence Forces and the use of national defence. Of course, it is quite clear that these are somewhat contradictory objectives, that at the same time we should get better at the same time as at a lower price, which is why I would criticise it a little bit if we let it be understood that there is some sort of magic solution here that would make it easy for all of these things to happen. This type of arrangement is inevitably a compromise that has now been reached, I think quite rightly, that we have Senate Properties, Defence Properties, and there is a subsidiary structure, but there is still sufficient autonomy, power, guidance to that defence property — i.e. a package of this kind. And I understand in itself that someone may also think that it would have been better to build differently, but I do not like the idea that there was an obvious, easy solution here that would have solved everything at once — for such an idea I do not really warm up to. However, I think it is important to note these possible frictions here. This when required by the Senate and The good, seamless cooperation between the ministries that direct defence property in a common direction is, in itself, important to ensure that these objectives which have been set for this purpose are promoted and pursued, and from that point of view, I think that the committee's proposal or this motion for a statement, which has highlighted this assessment, is a good thing. Personally, I would see that this government proposal with a cookie on this committee has a good package that will help us to have better conditions for efficient and security-friendly space use and space policy in support of the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u36	Mr President! However, as a member of the Committee on Defence, I would like to thank the entire Committee on Defence for the fact that we have clearly had a common ambition here and, together in that committee, we have made this much better than it would have been in all its coldness, that is to say, we have been able to take this forward in good cooperation. I see, however, that there is now a little hanging from that government programme, and there would have been a better solution for this, which I would have liked us to have gone directly right away. It is positive, however, that this is now detaching so much that it will then be easier to make the change so that it will be completely removed from the Senate. I've been thinking a lot about what you brought out of that government, about whether the Senate has the kind of expertise that will then support this current one. I am sure that is the case, but at least I have quite clearly received the impression from the experts that it would be better if it were detached, and also the one we have managed to change together, namely that the subsidiary has been or will be employed by its own CEO, but perhaps the most important thing that will take this issue in the right direction. And when there is a CEO, it is assumed that there will be enough expert applicants to do so, that there will be no need to be a manager under another CEO. However, this is a good solution that has been translated into this model in cooperation, but I would have preferred it to have been separated directly. Here you go. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u37	Mr President! I also agree with Mr Mäenpää's assessment of this committee work, as it were, of the added value of this government proposal. As I said in my previous speech, through the work of the committee, this government proposal has gone even better, clearly for the better, and above all for the clearer. The limits of jurisdiction and control are now more clearly defined, and this is also what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in its own opinion, drew attention to the need for such clarification. Since 2011, I have been on the Committee on Defence, and in 2011 we received tomorrow’s Lejona Catering presentation from the previous government — I say tomorrow’s gift because the previous government had already prepared it — and I do feel very strongly about it, and in that report’s bottom it shows that the same mistakes should not be made with regard to staff and so-called support services, but must be seen as an integral part of the Defence Forces’ performance, as they are in practice. They form the backbone for our army and the Defence Forces to operate in good, healthy, functional spaces and yet their stomachs full of functional capacity. It is the same chain, and that is why this government proposal, and this joint report in particular, is paying attention to the role of staff. This must not be the case, nor should the experts from the Ministry of Defence, whom we have heard together in committee, be the subject of collective bargaining, disparagement or the like. That is also stated here in the report. And it must now be in Parliament's common memory, regardless of the government base, that future governments will not change this chosen line, but we will keep the staff and this resource in the right hands and in the right proportions. But, of course, this performance is not perfect either. This is not going to take us anywhere in Shangri-La. There are still issues here that need to be looked at and observed and evaluated, and so the committee has also called for experience to be sought, what works and what does not work and what does not work will be corrected. I believe, as I said at the beginning of the previous speech, that no one in itself is hanging himself from the Government Programme, but that the Government Programme has been drawn up in accordance with the wishes of the Ministry of Defence with regard to this entry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u38	Mr President! Indeed, I too thank the committee. We always have a good spirit in committee:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u41	Mr. Speaker! Mr Commissioner, the current Vice-President of the Committee on Defence, Mr Ronkainen, if I remember correctly, I think the very precise quote went from the expert so that ‘we can live’ and I asked him to check how well we are living,so that our expert would be able to live in a reality — according to my notes — so that we can live very well. There's a little difference in tone, too. But there is no point in making this a bigger drama. As Vice-President Ronkainen well said, the goal is a common one. During the last term, I myself was also in the process of proposing, hoping and in the joint committee, to conclude our proposal from Parliament's point of view, in order to bring under our own armaments and possibly under the control of other security actors — the police, Customs, the Border Guard and so on. I am not going to reveal any secret to the government when I tell you the fact that this spirit was also entered into government programme negotiations and that there were people in this Chamber negotiating defence issues. Here we go. As I said, the Minister of Defence himself wished for this proposal, and it did not, of course, allow us to go against their own wishes, but to carry out the will that the experts of the Ministry of Defence themselves see as necessary and important for the performance of the Defence Forces. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u42	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u43	Mr President! We are now dealing with the draft law on aid for broadband construction, which would enable this construction to be supported by state resources. This presentation is very necessary and good, especially at a time when telework appears to be an increasingly attractive alternative, and many also seek to live or live in a sparsely populated area for longer periods of time, for example in their leisure homes. The committee drew particular attention to the fact that these high contributions from municipalities will, however, lead to problems in municipalities where market-driven broadband is not built anyway, and it is concerned that projects will not be created in very sparsely populated areas in this way. That committee's proposal, which we are now adopting, is therefore very necessary. It is important to monitor the implementation of the objectives of this law so that these municipal contributions do not become excessive and, if necessary, take measures to amend the law and regulation. After all, at first reading, we voted on these municipal sections on the basis of an objection to lower contributions, but unfortunately that direct proposal was lost. But this needs to be monitored very closely, and it is important that these broadband opportunities work across Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u44	Mr President! The undersigned personally takes a slight critical view of digging the broadband network into the ground simply because the technology is going so fast that we are about to be late. In the debate in committee, good points have been raised on the basis of this proposal. The purpose of this proposal is to make it possible both to try and work at a distance on a national scale, not just in urban areas, but now there is one problem in this proposal that will prevent a certain type of enterprise in other parts of Finland than in urban centres, namely service providers who need a symmetric speed up and down, will now be left behind in this proposal. So why are we building a technology that does not even meet the business needs of today? Let's take the wire as an example of Netflix. It produces 5 megas per second of HD quality for people to look at. For viewers, this means a downward speed of 5 megas per second, but from the provider's side up speed, which means that you cannot, with this state-supported fibre network, set up a network in that country — and this is therefore a disadvantage for all sorts of companies producing online services. In that sense, we would like to see cable drawn for a longer period of time. For this reason, I object to the proposal made by the Group of the European People's Party in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection: ‘The Commission calls for a minimum speed of 100Mbps/s and a minimum speed of at least 100Mbs/s in all cities than in rural areas. “ — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u45	Mr President! The government's proposal is largely to be welcomed. The Finns of Peru defend the entire country’s ability to live, and fast IT connections support this goal. However, we are concerned that broadband technology and 100 megabytes of access may be old technology, while 5G technology is coming at up to 10 gigabytes of connection speeds. However, as the report shows, the main concern is the high and even excessive contributions from municipalities. Municipalities, many of which have been in financial difficulties before the interest rate, are unlikely to be able to promote the digital leap with this aid. As such, the proposal constitutes a threshold for the possibility of rapid access to information for residents of sparsely populated areas, in particular those excluded from market-based links. Mr President! I support Mr Slunga-Poutsalo's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u46	A point of order 6 will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u47	Mr President! The Government will increase the taxation of heating fuels by EUR 105 million in 2021 by reducing the tax subsidy on combined heat and power production and increasing the taxes on heating fuels. Tightening the taxation of heating fuels weakens the livelihoods of people living in rural areas in particular. The residents of sparsely populated areas will have to pay more for their housing as a result of the tightening of energy taxation, and this is also contrary to the government's talk of social justice in climate action. As a result of the interest-bearing crisis, it is all the more important to ensure that the cost of living does not increase further. As part of the tax increase in heating fuels, the taxation of peat will also increase. In practice, the rapid phasing-out of peat use will result in more coal and oil being used in heat production in the future. The burning of wood in energy production will also increase, which is very bad from an environmental point of view. It was also recently reported that energy plants will have to prepare faster than anticipated for the cessation of peat combustion, as peat production has almost stopped in Finland. Some energy plants have already resorted to a foreign application because there is no guarantee that domestic energy wood will be sufficient. Replacing domestic peat with foreign production does not support sustainable development. The competitiveness and employment of energy-intensive industries must be ensured, and in a situation of interest rates it makes no sense to increase the costs of the export industry. Energy tax reform must be carried out in a way that allows for a shift towards cleaner solutions while maintaining competitiveness. Mr President! I propose that Parliament adopt the three proposals for statements made in the third objection to this report, which are there on behalf of Mrs Essayah. The first draft statement requires the government to take measures to cancel the tax tightening on machinery and heating fuels. The second draft statement proposes that the government withdraws measures to drive domestic peat production down faster than the emissions trading mechanism, as this leads to increased use of foreign fossil fuels and the diversion of roundwood to incineration. The third draft statement proposes that the competitiveness and employment of energy-intensive industries should be ensured and, therefore, the gradual cuts in tax refunds should be drawn up in a way that allows for a full five-year transition period for the various industrial sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u48	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that I support the proposals for statements made in response to Mrs Räsänen's objection No 3. Indeed, we must take care when we think about natural resources, the principle of sustainable use of natural resources. That is something we must take care of, but it must be done in a consistent and long-term manner. And now that we are thinking of this government proposal, there is a certain way things will turn upside down. It is the idea and the point, the aim, the sustainable use of natural resources and the very drastic reduction of our emissions. However, just as Mr Räsänen's speech made clear, if we drive domestic peat production as strongly as is now happening, faster than the emissions trading mechanism, it will lead to increased use of foreign fossil fuels and also to the use of roundwood. When we think about sustainable development, what is absolutely central is that when we make these decisions, we must assess both the short and long-term effects, both at home, within our domestic borders, and then abroad internationally, especially in the vicinity of our borders. And the main rule, of course, is that our actions should not have the effect of harming elsewhere. But also: What are the long-term effects here in Finland? It is quite clear that the competitiveness and employment of energy-intensive industries must be taken care of, and that is why the gradual cuts in tax refunds must be drawn up in a way that allows for a full five-year transition period for the various industrial sectors, it is also in that statement. Then there is the lifting of taxation on machinery and heating fuels: when we think of entrepreneurs, industry, competitiveness and, in particular, in this situation of interest rates, all the challenges, yes, there — whether it is heating fuels or machinery fuels — if the tax on fuels is raised, it does not in any way facilitate and contribute to the success of these entrepreneurs. Sustainable development must be taken forward. Natural resources must be used sustainably, live, operate and work in balance with the environment and nature. But that requires that we make a comprehensive assessment of what decisions mean in both the short and the long term, both in Finland and in the surrounding environment and internationally. And that is why, as has been said, this proposal must be corrected by means of pronunciation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u49	Mr. Speaker! Good speeches have been made here by colleagues on this energy tax package. Let me start by saying that at first reading we have tabled amendments to this proposal, but of course they have already been voted on in the Chamber and we will move on from it. But, President-in-Office, I will say just as much about this situation of refunding the energy tax on energy-intensive industries, that indeed the coalition has protested that this formula should be changed, because this has been raised in the hearings of the committee and it has become clear that this formula, which has been in this government proposal, will, however, lead to the fact that, in particular, the heavy industry, including the forestry industry, the situation is that, in practice, this refund will be reduced by several companies after a year or two and not within this transitional period. It is as if the energy tax refund staggering system was built too tight. That is why we proposed that the exit should be changed so that these companies would then benefit from it and could also adapt to it as if it were going to change. But this matter has now been dealt with in that regard. However, here I would like to say out loud that we have tabled this amendment, and there are several colleagues here who have also raised this issue in this debate. However, this is a good thing for us to be aware of the type of impact this proposal will have in this form. Mr. Speaker! I would like to say another thing about which we have a motion for a resolution here at second reading, which relates to this situation in the recycling industry, and I would like to thank the Committee on Budgets for its very good cooperation. In other words, during the course of the discussion of this proposal, we have pointed out that some of the operators in the recycling industry are currently not in the second category of electricity tax but are paying electricity tax according to the first category of electricity tax, and therefore their competitive situation on the market is worse than, for example, those who use virgin raw materials. However, if we think that we have a strong objective to promote this importance of the circular economy in Finland, then this situation is quite absurd. That is why, President, I would like to propose that Parliament approve this objection to the second proposal for a statement on this processing of industrial recycled materials.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u50	Honorable Speaker! As far as I am concerned, I would like to make a number of statements in response to protest 1. The first concerns this floor price mechanism. In our view, the government should still consider whether it should be regulated at all. Of course it is not provided for here in itself, but it is covered in this report. Our second statement concerns this full five-year compensation for all industries, and we would also like to minimise the additional costs for a high-efficiency electricity industry. On the report itself: That in itself is fiscal and, on the one hand, the main objective is to reduce emissions but, on the other hand, to get more revenue into the state treasury. However, there is a downside here that this in itself increases the cost of living, heating, moving and fuel, thereby clearly increasing the cost of living and moving people. We objected to these. Of course, those proposals were in the form of a paragraph; they were voted down at first reading. Finally, I would like to say that the proposal for a statement contained in this report, which is presented in the report itself by the committee, is a good and right step and takes account of the concerns of our industry, which uses a great deal of electricity, with regard to this proposal. All in all, I believe that we all want to keep this industrial field of ours good and diverse in Finland and make it possible for many units within the same company to be international and to compete against each other, so there will be no competitive situation for the unit to be driven down from Finland. The fact that we in our own legislation have produced such a situation that our Finnish unit is not able to compete with another, a foreign service would be truly undesirable, and the committee has also wanted to draw attention to this – I have understood that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u51	Mr President! I support the presentations made by Ville Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u52	Mr President! I support the proposals made by Mr Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u53	Mr President! But now that it's about energy, I'm not just gonna talk to you to warm me up. The aim is to highlight the points made by the representative: The low tide brought up. As a hundred people, I can tell you that a few years ago, in a comparison within the group, it was a paper machine located in Rauma that experienced the fate that the German energy-intensive industry tax refund system worked so well that although, according to my understanding and according to what I was told, in Rauma the paper machine was more efficient and productive, it was not enough. Now that these tax benefits are being cut, I hope that the government and the committee will also have thought in depth that there will not be a similar situation at this point. At least for a few installations such optional situations have been raised. Of course, everyone who speaks for themselves wants to justify it, painting the black future, but let us hope that this is not the case that such reflection takes place within these international groups. And, of course, on that side of the forest sector, these may then be the closest to the Finns. At this point, of course, I would like to thank the government for reducing these tax benefits on pine oil, because I do not see any point in the fact that, with state aid, pine oil is being burned on top of the piston when, without state aid, it has a much better chance of making high-grade products. This is an excellent line, and I do believe that the Satakunta and the Oulu region are pleased that the products processed from pine oil, which are of very high quality, are in a better competitive position and thus safeguard its raw material status when, in the past, it has been wrongly achieved in the EU that it is waste and stars. No, it is just a virgin raw material in itself, which has been recovered in the process and exploited. So there is something positive about this. Finally, I could say that with horror I am looking at the import volume of the applications that are currently being imported to Finland. Let us hope that there will be no pests who will then not see whether it is an economic forest or a protected forest. They'll eat all the wood when it's served.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u54	Mr President! In fact, I would like to draw attention to the same effect that the previous speaker, Mrs Myllykoski, and Mrs Vähämäki, drew attention to in this government proposal. It is a very good assumption that, in Finland, the electricity tax for industry will now be set at that minimum level in Europe, but once it is abolished during a few years' transition period, it will of course treat our industrial plants differently. And although the committee has taken into account in its report that, in relation to turnover, the change is not necessarily very large, it can be very impressive in these unit-specific competitiveness factors. It is therefore a question of how the factories located in Finland in these international groups would also remain here and, as a result of our decisions, there would then be a situation where similar plants in Sweden or Germany, for example, within the same group, would enjoy a competitive advantage. So, of course, if you think about social responsibility and the role of parliamentarians and decision-makers, then we should avoid decisions such as those that then cause a certain degree of uncertainty, and unfortunately we know that there can now be uncertainty in some institutions about the momentary deterioration of the competitive situation in some of the institutions until this transition has completely disappeared. Well, of course, with those plants as a whole, its competitiveness is made up of many things, but energy in energy-intensive industries is of course one of the most important, then combined with labour costs. So it is very important that when legislation is adopted, it is always viewed from an international perspective, and if Germany uses various relief mechanisms or if Sweden uses them to the full, then Finland must use them to the same extent in the same competitive environment. Unfortunately, there was no such change as to say with certainty that there will be no problems for any institution during the transitional period of a few years, but it is, of course, a good thing that the committee put a statement there that the government will then have to take the necessary action if it is discovered that, for some of the institutions, this will result in a negative impact on employment, because it is unfortunate that it is sometimes the impression that politicians will wake up at the point when Kaipola is closed down or where it has gone so far, even though we must of course act in such a way that they will not be closed down.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u55	Mr. Speaker! At first reading, this content of the energy tax package and the related problems were already widely discussed. In particular, two points need to be made: The evolution of world market prices has been such that this tax increase at the beginning of August, for example for transport fuels, has not been reflected in those practical prices. They go there in the same numbers as in the spring, which means that these weekly fluctuations in the prices of distribution companies are bigger than that effect of the tax increase. And this was an inflation adjustment of this kind, as has been the case with the previous government, and also a level of magnitude. As a second point: this above in the debate includes the representative of Vähämäki and the representative The issue raised by Mr Kulmun was seriously quoted in the work of the committee, and there is then that impetus. What is really important is that we monitor the way this change treats the various types of energy-intensive industrial enterprises. As a whole, these energy tax decisions will lead to an overall fall in industrial costs of up to hundreds of millions of euros. It is particularly important that the electricity tax on industry should fall to the minimum level in the EU. These measures as a whole will make it easier for businesses and also for employment to be improved. But then, for individual institutions and companies, it is difficult to develop a solution directly at the legal level, and it is now important to react quickly if problems arise. After all, we have had some unfortunate experience that a company, even a large company, as in the situation and case of Kaipola factories for example, would not be able to contact us in good time to find a way to continue in Finland and secure jobs. Here, with this effort, I hope that there will be such an uproar that, if there are indeed company- and factory-specific problems facing them, they will be jointly sought through the actions of the private sector and industry as well as the government and the political system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u56	Mr President! I've missed out on what you're talking about. My corner pointed out that, however, something was done about it, but the way in which it can be done in that situation no longer means that in the group this Finnish subsidiary would be able to come to milk at that point, to threaten that the plant is being closed down, and that is certainly a bit of a difficult situation. With Kaipola, the government would have had no chance of reacting. That decision was made in the company and no one could have believed that it was now. It could be calculated that more than 70,000 euros per person was produced for the company under the line so that no one’s antenna can sense what is happening. In fact, I would say that this has been more about the fact that the closure of the plant in Finland is so much cheaper for the Group than in Germany, for example. If a profitable group company closes its facilities in Germany, it becomes a very expensive entity for the group, but when it is made in Finland, society will catch up on the management of the unemployed by paying the earnings-related allowance, the arrangements. At this point, then, we should have something else — to try to deal with these matters with the so-called sensitive ear. But at this point I do not believe that energy was the main issue, but the paper market, as the paper market is decreasing all the time, there was already reason to make some decisions that the expensive bill did not come into the hands of the Group. And it was, of course, a real shame for Finnish employees and subcontracting companies, and it would not be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u57	Mr President! It is precisely from an international competitiveness point of view that we still need to speak. Of course we can put different kinds of support mechanisms there, but we will never end up having enough money to compete with the support mechanisms of France or Germany or other countries, but it is of course important for us, as a small export country, that we reach agreement on what those mechanisms are in the EU internal market and then make maximum use of those mechanisms. Of course, we also have the idea here of strengthening international competitiveness that the electricity tax will now be put at the very last level of the European minimum level, for example in Sweden. However, when we still have a paper industry in Finland, for example, at a time when we have to fight for every single job, we should not now be able to contribute to the temporary improvement in the competitiveness of the Swedish paper mill within the group, but rather to the competitiveness of the Finnish paper mill. And here is the concern and uncertainty. After all, this reduction in the electricity tax is an absolute good thing if you look at the steel industry or the future industry that is investing in Finland. But then the willingness of companies to invest is also very much a matter of psychology, because each country will certainly have different strengths and weaknesses and geography, how long the journey is to the market and what the situation is, so it is of course essential for us to be as competitive as possible at European and international level. Of course, there are times when you hear the idea of creative destruction, too, that there is nothing you can do about it if, for example, jobs are left in my own constituency of Kemi, where there is an old, strong industry that has been there for over a hundred years, a major export concentration, as in many regions of this country. However, unemployment has been relatively high for a long time. What are they saying to these people who, at their worst, are going to be unemployed? After all, we need to think about how we can keep those jobs in the heavy industry and, at the same time, are constantly being reformed — and it does not matter that jobs go away. It is always a disaster, at least at regional level, but often also at national level, when we think about how much of it we are discussing here too. And if you also think about those big heavy industry units, where do you make that circular economy? Yes, it is in those strong units of the basic industry that create its foundations and are able to conduct international trade on a continuous basis and also to develop it. The competition is so fierce that surely every paper mill in Finland knows that we have to renew and succeed in the market and compete. It is my job to ensure that Finnish paper mills do not at any point find themselves in a worse position than the conditions of competition in relation to similar German and Swedish factories.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u58	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u59	Mr President! Here we are dealing with the proposal to amend the Act on Social and Health Care Customer Fees so that, among other things, carers’ receptions become free of charge and the ceiling is extended to oral health care, temporary home care, including temporary home hospital care, and certain customer charges for remote services. These are very welcome proposals. They have already been discussed a great deal here and have received a positive response from Parliament, as can be seen in this committee's report. However, I would like to raise concerns about oral health care, for example, where this current interest rate situation has also led to a high increase in the amount of care debt. In this proposal, now that the ceiling is extended to oral health care, which is in itself a positive thing, the challenge will be that public services will be burdened by this extension of the ceiling, and if, at the same time, we are also going to give up the compensation for the private dental care services in the case of oral health care, then it will further strengthen this pressure on health centres and public health care. That is why I think it is very important now that the government abandons its intention to cut or even remove Kela benefits from dental care, oral health care, and instead increases Kela compensation and strengthens the use of service vouchers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u60	Mr President! I will make a proposal here for a draft statement by the Assembly, which is thus worded as follows: ‘The Commission will require delays to be initiated in preparations for the transfer of the monitoring of the cap on payments to the service provider’. The reason for this is that now that this ceiling is extended and we have a variety of payment ceilings, how will man keep it up to date? It will be feedback from the public that it cannot be kept in any way, and all in all, for example, it is very difficult for the elderly to follow up on the non-payment rate — and it is for people of all ages, admittedly. During the previous Board of Directors, an overall reform of the Consumer Fees Act was presented, and there it had been thought that it would be transferred from the customer to the organiser. That would really make it easier for us to do this. Unfortunately, this entry has been deleted from this proposal. Monitoring of the ceiling should therefore be entrusted to the service provider. It would make life easier for many people who are even in a difficult position, and for the citizen to make use of that ceiling regulation. Not everyone may have the opportunity to monitor this cap being met and may not be able to help anyone else to do so. In this respect, customers are still in an unequal position. Issues relating to the overall ceiling — the most important of them — are now left unresolved in this government proposal, but this statement specifically concerns this monitoring system. Otherwise, there are a lot of good things in this proposal, too, but, as Mrs Räsänen has just pointed out, this maintenance debt now demands that we actually start using private aid, otherwise we will not get away with this. If, for example, it is estimated that there is a shortfall of 1.3 million in dental visits, that is a disastrous situation, and we cannot all put it into the public sector, which is already in a weak situation. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u61	Mr President! I support Mr Risiko's proposal for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u62	Mr President! I would also have supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u63	Mr President! I had not intended to take the floor at this second reading at first, but when Mrs Räsänen raised the issue of dental care in the mouth, or, as we say more people, dental care, as a matter of real importance, I would like to say very briefly. After all, there has been such a development that, at the time, private dental care was not at all covered by health insurance, then, some 15 years ago, it was covered by health insurance and gradually, in the case of dental care, health insurance benefits amounted to EUR 130 million, well above the health insurance allowance for medical visits, which was at the highest of EUR 75 million. However, during the previous parliamentary term, Kela compensations for dental care were cut more strongly than any other part of social security in Finland. They were dropped from over EUR 120 million to EUR 40 million, that is, EUR 80 million. At present the situation is that one third of dental visits take place in the private sector and two thirds in the public sector, which, just as has been said here, is blocked in such a way that the queues are long and there are many places where no food is sold. I see myself in the same way as Mr Risikko and Mr Räsänen here that the pressure will come from this customer fee reform, which means that dental care will also be included in this ceiling, but will be greatly increased there on the public side. In practice, the municipality has no choice but to hire more dentists or through a purchase service or a service voucher to make more use of the private sector, since this health insurance, however, currently only compensates for about 14% of the visit when 86 per cent remains to the customer. In other words, the right way is this purchase service or service voucher when the private sector is subcontracted.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u64	Mr President! It is quite true what Mr Lindén here recalled about the reduction in these Kela allowances over the years, and now this government is taking the rest of them. So now, for example, this situation with regard to Kela compensation is that there is not much of it. And if we are to have a patient directive in the future, then we will have to change this system because of the implementation of the patient directive. Last season we were brought here with the border law, the so-called border law, and that would have been the only customer charge if you went abroad for treatment. Unfortunately, it has not yet been implemented, but the Commission will knock. Well, in connection with this difficulty, the fact that it is currently difficult to get time - if we take an example of these social centres from the last period, when we had plans to have private and public social centres and have the same prices. It would have been very specific to the citizen... And it would not have been any more expensive for the public sector to use it in private. Now it may even be much more expensive. Last season there was a system like this coming up, and unfortunately it didn't work out. But it will be missed many more times when it is discovered that this provincial model of those services brings no more than that volume, those operators, but there is no more. It should now be remembered that private support is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u65	Mr President! Mr Lindén is absolutely right that this health insurance allowance for dental care has already been cut down, and in practice it means that patients who use private services pay for that service themselves, mainly from their own resources. However, even when operated, it has had an incentive effect on the use of these private services, and so, among other things, private dentists tell us that it is a miracle that patients still appreciate the small amount of compensation for these services. I fear that these plans will lead to inequalities in services due to the fact that if there is too much pressure on public services, then it is easy for the level to fall. In practice, then, it is easy for people with real wealth to use private services with high quality, and those with average income and low income are waiting in line for these dental care services. Therefore, the Board of Directors should also take this burden seriously when considering these different measures in relation to these customer charges.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u66	Mr President! It is not at all unusual that this debate went a little further. However, we are dealing here with this customer fee reform, and social and health care customer fees are collected from customers by approximately 1.4 billion, i.e. approximately 1420 million. There are income-related fees of just over EUR 900 million — practically linked to long-term care both in institutions and at home — and dental care fees are just over EUR 100 million, and then other equal fees are just over EUR 300 million, including health centre visits and many, many other charges, hospital clinic fees. This debate on dental care makes sense in this context because, without additional funding, we will not be able to get this dental care in order, whether public workers or private workers, professionals or dentists and dentists at medical centres. In any case, this will require more funding. The second question is that once additional funding has been obtained through some kind of funding, then, of course, we must consider how it is most efficient to organise it. To Mr Risiko, I would like to say that during the last parliamentary term, there were these trials of freedom of choice in five different areas. I looked at them very carefully, and the key conclusion is that, at the moment, when the Finnish health centre receives just over EUR 600 per capita for all the 30 different services at the health centre — both home care, clinics and medical clinics, dental care and everything — about EUR 600 per person in practice about EUR 150 at municipal level is available to the public as the most important health centre service, i.e. to visit a doctor. You all know that if one asks the other whether you visited a health centre, it is rarely he who means that you visited a service other than that of a doctor. That's how it goes in everyday life, isn't it? In other words, it is EUR 150, which the municipalities currently have in their budgets to allocate to this part of the health centre's activities. In these trials of freedom of choice, the Government gave between EUR 250 and EUR 300 to private companies for this same purpose. It is quite clear, of course, that this money provides double the amount of services per capita, which means that access and the rate of access to treatment are also quite different. It is very important that, however these issues are dealt with, this always ultimately sums up that funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u67	Mr President! In several speeches, there has been a theory of how the level is falling or the availability of services is falling when they are under too much pressure in a situation where the middle class no longer receives adequate compensation from the private sector. This underlying idea of something constant in the coverage and quantity of public health services does not apply. Health services are organised in the public sector to the extent that policy-makers decide to use them. It's not the result of any laws of nature. On the other hand, research findings that are largely similar to those of the law of nature are that it is universalism that protects the quality of service. In other words, services that are also used by groups of the population who decide on the financing of services, in practice, in this case to a large extent by municipal councils, are of higher quality and are less likely to be cut than services where the majority of users belong to the lower socio-economic groups. This difference is very clear when you look at the funding of our health centres and the ability to support the need for services in relation to special care. In practice, special care is used by the entire population except for a few of the very richest segments, and special care does not have any significant problems in obtaining the money and resources it needs to carry out this task. Instead, year after year, decade after decade, we wonder why the money from health centres is not enough. Well, that's not enough when you don't give it enough money. And we also have quite extensive research evidence that the problem with those public health centres is not that people are dissatisfied with the service they receive, but that it is so difficult to get to the service because it is chronically under-resourced in relation to the need in the region. So we are here to decide on the resources that hopefully our professionals, the health care people, will then use in the field. The fact that we have now given way to a situation in which a significant proportion of the population acquires services on their own or through insurance from private people has created this current situation, but it can be completely changed: there are only different decisions being taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u68	Mr President! Mr Kontula went through what has happened here, and the truth is that we have too little resources for basic health care, and that is indeed up to the decision-makers of the municipalities, but when there is a mechanism here that when the hospital district has had to become money for special care — which I am in favour of, and I want Finnish special care to remain good — then there has always been a reduction in basic health care and it has slowly dried up. Instead of being treated in primary health care, patients have moved to special medical care more quickly, as those specialists have also gone to special medical care. This has been such a very bad cycle, and that is where we should now go. That is why the attempt has been made to have such strong social centres, not to transfer the patient, but to bring basic special care to basic health care and help people more quickly. After all, it has become a two-way system, because those with money have been able to buy private or have taken out insurance, and then those in a more difficult economic situation have tried the health centre, but when they have not received those services. That is why this reform of the social economy has been carried out. But now I just say again that unfortunately, the aid that is being done with this method will not come to this. But: What we have today is customer fees, and just like a representative Lindén has told us many times and we have the largest share of European ownership, and that is not a good point, so that is something you should pay attention to. But then, in the same breath, I say that if we do not reduce the burden of the disease, we will not make these costs any lower. They just rise and rise. We have more games and equipment and an ageing population that needs more services, and when those services develop, they always cost, but what would we not want for our own neighbors or ourselves — the best service possible? Now it is especially available for special medical treatment. There's a lot of basic health care in there if you can get there, but there's too many queues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Risikko said, this is the subject of these customer fees. Let's have a conversation there. — And Mr Lindén will show us how.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u70	Mr President! Yes, customer fees are an important part, they amount to 1.4 billion out of the 20 billion that we spend on social and health care as a whole. I would like to thank Mr Kontula and Mr Risikko for their excellent contributions. It's a pleasure to have such a good conversation. By way of a practical example, I would like to reinforce what Mr Kontula said there. Take, for example, childbirth. Not in Finland, if I now use a little popular expression, the immigrant mother and the daughter of a mountain counselor are born in different places, in different systems, but they are born in our universal central hospital delivery units because we have a good quality service, which is also cost-effective and also very affordable for the user. In other words, this concrete example confirms what Mr Kontula said there. During my career I have had the pleasure of seeing a health centre at the time when it works: in a situation where the self-doctor system worked so that in a medium-sized Finnish city, I can say that, in the city of Pori, in the early 1990s, everyone in Pori had access to their own doctor on the same day if necessary. And so this is not an impossible utopia, no vision that could not be realised today, and I personally believe that my main task here during this parliamentary term is to contribute to this development, that we will also be able to get the basic health care system in place in these areas. Personally, I see that it could be very much free of charge, since it is currently subject to a charge, although of course the fees, the customer fees there are much lower than the own resources in the private sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u71	Mr President! I share Mr Kontula's thoughts very much. You are right in that analysis, but in order to move on to widespread use of public services such as dental services in the capital region, for example, for a more wealthy part of the population, it would not only require the decisions you have said, but would require, above all, resource decisions, i.e. that a significant amount of funding would then be provided by the state for basic health care services and, for example, oral health care services. Otherwise, this development will indeed not necessarily lead to a deterioration in the quality of its health centre service itself, but to customers standing in queues and waiting for time. The private sector, on the other hand, can be reached quickly and, of course, the health problems can be helped more quickly. This proposal does indeed extend this ceiling to, among other things, oral health care and other areas, which are very good, but if we want to increase social justice, then these ceilings, the various ceilings for health care payments, should also be quickly combined so that payments do not become expensive for patients, both in terms of customer fees, travel and medicines, and in practice contributions are expensive. As far as these resources are concerned, if we were to attempt to transfer all of these current customer holdings, for example for private services, to the public sector, then this would mean that the state should significantly increase these government contributions to the financing of primary health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u72	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u73	Mr President! I propose that Parliament adopt the four motions for statements to be included in the third objection to this report. In these we propose that, in addition to the indexation of earnings index, labour taxation should be reduced by a total of EUR 200 million. We propose an increase of 3.5% in the income tax ceiling for 2021, i.e. an increased index would be used instead of an index of earnings. The maximum reduction in labour income, as well as the retention and removal percentages, we have proposed more than the proposed increase in the government's proposal. We also propose tax exemptions for informal care support in order to facilitate the livelihood of a family carer and care provider and to make more access to family care available. We also propose that the level of the household allowance be restored to the level at which it was still in 2019. The reduction in household income will create jobs, for example in the cleaning sector and in companies doing various repairs, while at the same time combating the informal economy that exists there in domestic work. One of our efforts is also concerned with the child-reduction system. This was created to compensate for the operation of child supplements and should not have been removed. This child allowance was in use between 2015 and 2017 and could help to correct the worst shortcomings faced by families with children. In addition, we propose a reduction in the tax deduction of social partners' contributions. The tax deductibility of trade union contributions has to be seen as a considerable remnant of the past, since other members of public interest organisations are also not entitled to deduct their membership fees from taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u74	Mr President! I support Mrs Räsänen's objection to 3 of the four motions for statements. In just a few words, I would like to highlight the support for informal care here, and we are really proposing it – already last season there were withdrawals, and perhaps earlier – that it should be tax-free income. After all, in many cases care is the most human and the best form of care for both the care provider and the carer. If we think socially in this situation, it is also the most economical for society, and doing informal care must be one of the most important measures to reduce institutional care. We have a wide range of care shortages: we have an ageing population, we have a shortage of nurses and so on, and family carers have been a very important part of our health care and medical care throughout the years, for decades. They work many times without saving themselves. These presentations have been made with some days off and, in a certain way, services supporting informal care, but they are very small compared to the amount of work they do. The fact is that, frankly, the Finnish health system would not survive today without our family carers, and I therefore hope that not only will the tax exemption for this family care allowance actually come true, but will continue to do so even if this support and assistance for carers has gradually been increased, these days of leave would still be looked at — at least there should be some more — and also the services that support this family care. Yes, they do deserve and need better in that regard too. And then a few words about this child allowance: Indeed, we are suggesting that the amount of the deduction is EUR 100 for each minor child who is dependent, and so the tax can be deducted from that child allowance. We talk a lot about so few children being born, about the same class as in the famine years long ago. Many young families are reflecting on economic success and many challenges during this time. This child-reduction, which came in fact to compensate for the cuts in child supplements in the first place, is a very small contribution from society, but it is quite significant for families with children themselves, the guardians themselves. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u75	Mr. Speaker! I would like to propose that Parliament approve six motions for statements in response to objection 2, i.e. the opposition of the Assembly. In these, Mr President, we propose, in accordance with our alternative budget, first of all that income tax should be reduced by EUR 800 million, plus the changes to the household allowance that we have introduced in our alternative budget. In other words, the maximum reduction would be increased to EUR 5000 and the right to deduct the allowance would be increased to 60% and 40% respectively. Similarly, this EUR 100 contribution would be abolished, and this so-called "super-household allowance" would be created for over 75-year-olds, which would allow them to benefit from a 70% tax deduction for household services, and, furthermore, the lowest-income pensioners would receive EUR 1200 per year in support of the purchase of services if they did not have sufficient income to make this deduction. This, Mr President, is part of our option to give Finland a new start after the interest rate, which will provide excellent support for our service market development and the fact that small entrepreneurs will have more work and, accordingly, families with children and older people will be able to provide services at home in a way that is quite different from what they are doing today. An average of EUR 500 per year will be added to the employee's current income, approximately EUR 300 to the pensioner and EUR 516 to the employee entrepreneur's hand. We believe that tax recovery must also be taken as one of the ways in which Finland will survive. I would also like to say, Mr President, that the option of the Coalition Party has been made in a way that also allows for a strong reduction in the overall tax rate so that it is sustainable from the point of view of public finances. However, in the alternative, we have a significant reduction in debt borrowing, and of course all these policies can be found in detail in our alternative budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u76	Honorable Speaker! I object to the amendment I tabled, this statement on this reduction in the household and, in fact, on its return to 2019 levels. We see this as having a positive impact on employment in a number of sectors. This is actually used quite a lot in Finland. In 2019, a household allowance of 455 million was used and 380 million has been budgeted for next year. The price tag for the change we presented is about 92 million. At the earlier stage, at first reading, we proposed an increase of 150 million in the reduction in earnings and 44 million in the reduction in pension income. They were, of course, lost in the first stage of the vote. Those child allowances proposed by the KD and benefits for family carers are to be welcomed. In our alternative budget, a reduction of around 20 million has been made for family carers. Then, in our alternative budget, we take into account the fact that we would like to catch a few free passengers from society, that is, these big foundations. They could have a small capital stock. That's where we'd try to get about $65 million. Research has been carried out into the fact that the capital mass of these big foundations is in fact quite large, and there would certainly be additional revenue for the state. We should start somewhere. In my opinion, it is a little problematic that we have in society such actors, which are a little free traveler at the moment. But the thing, let's face it, is that in this truly fiscal government proposal in itself, we present this minor change in the household allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u77	Mr President! I am used to Mrs Vähämäki coming forward with well thought-out and supported proposals, so I support the proposals made by Mrs Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u78	Mr. Speaker! After all, that base proposal already has a stimulating effect when those table adjustments are made with a higher inflation estimate than is likely. There are points in the statements that deserve to be clarified. For example, in the case of the household allowance, a decision made in the second year has been made for savings reasons — in the current situation, before the interest rate — and the result of the inquiry that is currently under way will certainly be available by the year 22. The maximum amount of the household allowance, the allocation in a socially just way and, to some extent, the extension to labour-intensive tasks that serve households, should be carefully clarified. This was the main thrust of the opposition to the Assembly. Another issue worthy of clarification is the tax treatment of family carers' support. In the simplest way possible, part of the extra expenditure could be considered as compensation, which would be of a non-taxable nature, and would help to provide income support, especially in the case of family carers in low-income households. This too needs to be clarified carefully and quickly. I think we should look at these revitalizing solutions in the 22nd budget on a broad basis. There may be part of the stimulus relief for taxation, and there such socially just ways are of course important while also looking at the whole tax package, that again, where there is the ability to pay, taxation can be tightened especially in terms of capital income. This work will have to be done in the coming year to ensure that the changes in tax legislation that will help to create employment and economic growth are presented as well as possible next Christmas, so that these 22 solutions broadly support the government's objectives to raise employment rates and boost economic growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u79	Mr President! I support Mr Marttinen's excellent proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u80	Mr President! I would add that the economic crisis caused by the corona crisis makes it necessary to reduce labour taxation in order to improve people's purchasing power and incentives for work, and no one in this situation should be subject to stricter taxation. Similarly, taxation should target support for families, homes, home care. Similarly, there is a need for different tax deductions to be adjusted as government debt increases sharply. The Government's proposal proposes that an indexation based on income tax be carried out at all income levels in accordance with the 2.5 per cent index of earnings. According to the Government's proposal, the taxation of the average income will increase by approximately 0.2 percentage points, up to 0.4 percentage points. That is why we have raised this objection, and this is also included in the alternative budget of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u81	The 11th item in the order of business is now being presented for the first reading. The basis for this discussion is the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 25/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u82	Mr President! This proposal concerns the amendment of the police law specifically with regard to the protection police. As a member of this committee, I would just like to make a brief comment on this. This bill adds a reference to certain points of the law relating to a police officer who is a member of the protective police force, where it has obviously not been added in the context of the civil intelligence legislation which entered into force in June 2019. In this context, the powers of pre-trial investigation and coercion were removed from the protection police, which was very logical. Following the entry into force of the Civil Intelligence Act, it became apparent that the mention of a police officer under the command of a protective police officer has indeed been overlooked by some of the provisions of the police law to which it was originally intended to be added, and this has led to confusion in practical situations, including in the courts. The correction of this law is important in order to give the police officer in charge of the protection police a real opportunity to carry out the duties of secret intelligence.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u83	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This debate is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 10/2020 vp, and it is now decided on the basis of the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u84	The report on climate change — it is good that we finally have one, even though the report's only reading in time after other things does not give it the right weight. How should we view the fact that, according to the report on climate change, the ongoing preparatory measures are not sufficient to cover Finland’s contribution to halting warming to 1.5 degrees? It tells us that the proper balance of the matter has not yet been included in this House, that it has not yet been understood that, after all, after all the lesser things — interest, budgets, police budgets — have been dealt with, we will be judged on the basis of these decisions, not really on the basis of any other than these decisions. Individuals can move to vegetarian food and recycle, but the solution is major structural reforms, the ones we should be doing here. On the other hand, every reform, even the lesser one, will give us more time in relation to the scenario in which nothing is done. It gives us a little longer to get used to the idea of how great a change we are at. We all know what needs to be done — we just have to adapt to the fact that it has to be done. Of course, it makes sense to start with where political support is already easy to obtain for reforms. Emissions from waste treatment have already fallen with satisfaction, although we still have a lot to do, especially with regard to food losses and product life-cycle planning. Emissions reductions in transport are the most painful way forward through structural reforms. The renewal of the fleet alone is not a realistic objective, and large-scale improvements in public transport and the strengthening of car sharing infrastructure are needed in order to give people a genuine incentive not to buy their own cars when they do not need them. The role of the public sector is crucial. Last week, New Zealand announced that the public sector would be carbon neutral by 2025. That's a wild goal. If we were to do the same, we would also be doing a really big service to the private sector by building a reference technology that could take Finland's climate handprint to a completely different level. Public sector consumption, including procurement, is a major source of emissions in Finland and could also be a significant target for emission reductions. Moreover, in my view, these politically easiest reforms and the simplest ones to implement are the fact that activities that sustain the fossil economy or undermine biodiversity should no longer be specifically supported by public funds. So if we do not yet get rid of such activities, then at least we do not need to be encouraged by public funds. Even if we succeed, climate action will not save us from climate impacts. That is why, as we strive to curb climate change, we must at the same time shape society in such a way that it adapts better to the changes brought about by global warming. It is a new way of doing and thinking for people of our time, when the winning card is no longer efficiency and streamlining, but a resilience that requires sufficient flexibility in the systems to overcome the crisis. This was well highlighted, for example, in the case of the corona. For example, public health care in Italy and Germany had been put on such a tight footing before the outbreak of the corona that there was such a large-scale disaster that the savings that might have been made with the effects would have been reduced by less than a minute. Furthermore, those of us who have grown into a world of centralised solutions will have to get used to the idea that decentralisation may be better, can be safer. This, of course, also opens up opportunities for increasing local democracy. Korona has shown that people can change their behavior quickly. Remote work has taken a giant leap, a consumption culture and, in particular, the role of fashion is much less important than last year, which has led to a heavy fall in the production of goods in the fast fashion that consumes the environment. The question is: are politicians also able to change their behaviour quickly enough, and do we realise that we are facing a much greater crisis than the interest rate will ever reach?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u85	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Kontula for a number of good points. Perhaps I would make it clear that, in the face of this crisis, we also need to understand that we do not have separate climate legislation, which is dealt with in the annual climate report and is managed by the Minister for Climate Change, but that is something that should cut through all our policy sectors and, fortunately, it is doing more and more. Of course, we have an excellent climate minister, that is all, but we must remember that this does not rest on his shoulders alone. I think that the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is very good, and it also very well states that this report has then moved in the desired direction from its first version of the report. A few withdrawals from the report: Perhaps the clearest and most important thing is that action is not yet sufficient, and the transport sector in particular is critically important in achieving emission targets in the burden-sharing sector. The fact that the investment environment needs to be in order is raised from the low carbon road maps, and that is, of course, true. Some changes have already been made here, which will come into force next year, but we still have a lot to do, and with the Sustainable Growth Programme, for example, we need to ensure that these investments in the emission-free future are made on an adequate scale. The link with international policy, which was also raised by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in its own opinion, is good here, and that is where we have certain promising moments. It would appear that, in a certain way, there may be a turning to victory: over the past few months, a number of large economies have announced their new emission reduction and carbon neutrality targets. This change is too slow and too late, but it is still a good signal: it seems that our global fossil economy is finally turning towards an emission-free path. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection's comments on this idea on the further development of the report are good and the proposal for a position is also well founded. Perhaps, however, I would add that we have a good objective of carbon neutrality in 2035, but talking about it should not be allowed to forget that we have two essential points: The second is that cumulative emissions determine — how much we emit on our way there — and this is also a global issue. So it is not worth looking at just one point moment in time that it is calculated to meet the target, but the more we can reduce emissions along this route and the faster the better. And the second is that we also have a carbon-negative future there, and we must already build a path that will take place after its carbon neutrality and as a result, and it will require very long-term development of the technologies that will then be needed there in the future. To conclude, it is important to remember that the objective of carbon neutrality is not an abstract objective, but rather an objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u86	Mr President! The Climate Year Report contains a lot of good things, but much that we Finns cannot accept. The first annual climate report was submitted to Parliament in June 2019. In particular, it examined the emission performance of the burden-sharing sector and the implementation of the medium-term climate policy plan, KAISU, which was completed in 2017. The plan includes actions to achieve the 2030 emission reduction target for the burden-sharing sector. Emissions from transport, agriculture, separate heating of buildings and waste management are calculated for the burden-sharing sector. The first annual report also included information on policy actions and adaptation. The Group of the Party of European Socialists sees that the report on climate change contains a wide range of climate policy issues and measures that our group is concerned about. According to the current law, Finland’s national target is to reduce emissions by 80% by 2050 compared to 1990. Overall, we see them in a big picture both too tight and too ambitious. These punish the Finnish people for living, living and moving. Similarly, we see that the proposed plan for climate policy is, from many different points of view, quite problematic. One such thing is that the Climate Act is likely to set stricter national emission reduction targets for Finland for 2030 as well than the current EU legislation would require. The European Union's long-term objective is to be carbon neutral by 2050. As regards carbon neutrality, Finland therefore has a more ambitious timetable than the European Union. This is kind of inconceivable. We are a small country, and with this ambition we are destroying rural livelihoods, a good example of peat production. This is what I'm wondering. As a small nation, we cannot afford such ambition. Now we really need to think about what this is going to mean. It's all ideology. Mr President! Early in the year, the Commission published the Green Development Agenda for the European Green Deal. This is a package of measures aimed, inter alia, at significantly reducing emissions and preserving Europe's natural environment. It is therefore intended to lay the foundations for a fair and fair transition in climate matters. However, in our view this is not going to happen, because the package is far from fair because, through the package above, the European Union is increasingly seeking to intervene in the affairs of the Member States under the guise of climate and energy policy. That is something that we Finns cannot accept. At the same time, it should also be borne in mind that this package of measures also includes a plan to increase Europe's 2030 targets and an EU climate law that will include a carbon neutrality target for 2050. Legislative proposals to increase the 2030 emission reduction target will be submitted in summer by 21 Commission proposals. Mr President! Finally, I would like to point out that the main measures taken in relation to the medium-term plan for climate policy are the obligation to distribute biofuels used in transport and the obligation to distribute biofuel oil blended in light fuel oil. The Finns of Peru see that this requirement for distribution will significantly increase mobility and other costs for our driving people. It also significantly increases costs for businesses and industry. This is precisely the end of the Finnish society, our jobs and our economy. Would you not have to create jobs and not destroy them? Mr President! On the basis of the above, I propose that the following statement be adopted following the report, i.e. a proposal for a statement of objection: ‘The Council of State does not require that measures be taken to implement the mediumterm climate policy plan of the report,and not to weaken the position of the Finnish industry,the entrepreneur,in particular the primary producer,in particular the management of
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u87	Mr President! We are now dealing with the annual climate report, which is a new climate policy document based on the Climate Act. It is important for Parliament to be able to hold this climate policy debate on the basis of high-quality preparation and reporting and, of course, this debate will continue with a larger composition than it will continue today in this Chamber in the future and in the coming weeks, months and years. The acceptability of climate action and action always requires that economic and employment and environmental impacts must always be accompanied by social impacts in decision-making and debate, especially in terms of income distribution. According to the Government Programme, our goal is to be carbon neutral in Finland in 2035. Apart from each of us, municipalities have an important responsibility to achieve the objective of carbon neutrality. In particular, I would like to see more tools and more concrete work done on climate work for municipalities. As these climate measures move forward, income-sharing issues and a fair transition are essential. It must also be possible to think about flexibility as work progresses, and in the future, when considering the responsibility of municipalities, it must be possible to spread really good practices in some municipalities to other municipalities. Mr President! It is easy to see from the climate report that, when the objective is carbon neutrality, it will not yet be achieved by the current and planned measures. Strengthening the sinks of the land use sector and increasing wood growth, for example, is important in addition to emission reductions. In Finland, net emissions have decreased slowly: transport emissions have not decreased according to targets and agricultural emissions have remained almost unchanged year after year. So if someone claims that there is no need to do more for the climate, let alone that there is no need to do anything, then I do not think that he is living in this time. All we have to do is make this work easier to read, more transparent and more inclusive, and that is what we in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy also produced in our opinion. It is also important to remember that, especially in relation to climate change and the environment, the entrepreneurial activity created by innovations is an extremely great opportunity for Finland. It is certainly not worth noting this opportunity, and I personally think that this, if anything, is also creating the jobs of the future. We need sustainable growth, and at this moment, the efforts made to do so will cost themselves many times as much.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u89	Ärade talman, Mr President! Klimatårsberättelsen ges nu till riksdage för andra året i följd, och det handlar om ett mycket viktigt document då det gäller diskussionen om klimat. Etter fjolårets version ville vi ha ett document som är mer strateiskt och nu har det faktiskt blivit mycket battre. Det är bra att vi har ett document där vi följer upp utvecklingen av koldixidutsläppen på såväl kort som lång sikt, och det är viktigtigt, precis som det nämndes iuri tidigare, att det är lättillgängligt och ger en klar och tydlig helhetsbild av vilka åtgärder som lämpar sig bäst för att nå de politiska målsättingarna. Medborgarna och lokalbefolkningen Oberoende av bondingsort och ålder måste känna att de är en del av målsättningarna. Diskussionen om hållbarhet och klimat måste utövas på ett ätt som är lätt att förankra hos pineskorna konkret. Det ska ske konkret. Vi har gjort mycket bra redan, och det ska uppmuntras. Man ska inte beskylla på det sättet, det är sullan bra, må det sedan handla om hur vi sorterar, vämmer upp våra hus och vilket brandle vi använder i våra bilar. Här det också viktigt, precis som ledamot Taimela noterade, att kommunerna också har ett stort ansvar, och vi har ju också i och med coronan ändrat en del på vårt jättt att leva. Lokala initiativ är värdefulla och går hand i hand med företagsamhet och sysselsättning och det är vår uppgift att sporra och motivera till detta. Det finns mycket potential i det ox landet. Bland gives biogasen ser jag som en bra grej, och förstås måste vi ju rauh också lyfta upp den fina technology som utvinns och arbetas med i mina hemtrakter i Österbotten i Vasatrakten.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u90	Mr President! Finland's goal is to be carbon neutral in 2035 and carbon negative after that. According to the objective, emissions and sinks should be balanced in 2035 and then sinks should be higher than emissions. As stated in the Climate Year Report, current and planned actions are not sufficient to achieve this objective. Promoting sustainable development in Finland and the world belongs to all of us. It is our responsibility to leave a viable, better world for future generations. I would like to highlight public procurement in this debate. The value of public procurement in Finland is as high as EUR 35 billion annually. Using such great economic resources, it is possible to make real choices for a more sustainable world and for the future. This has to be significantly more visible in procurement decisions in Finland. The importance of public procurement has also been taken into account in the climate report. Many different projects have been presented, which in themselves are good and important. However, a simpler and more effective way would be to add directly to the procurement law an ecological criterion, which should then always be respected. We need ecologically sustainable public procurement, so binding criteria must be set for the award of procurement decisions, for example in relation to carbon footprint. Public procurement is so massive in financial terms that once it is properly targeted, we are already closer to the objective of carbon neutrality. Corporate social responsibility is strongly emphasised, and companies have responded well. The state could also act in a socially responsible way through its own public procurement. With binding criteria enshrined in the law, we could make a credible contribution to achieving our national climate objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u91	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! I would also take a catch from what is available in the world. Mr Kontula also mentioned the export potential well in his speech — and I am pleased to see that there are many active representatives of the Vaasa constituency here. For example, there is now a long-standing investment in energy and environmental technology plants and solutions and in research and development in Vaasa. This is precisely because the global market is so huge in energy and environmental technologies. The EU Commission estimates that achieving the current 2030 targets alone would require an additional investment of almost EUR 300 billion per year — both private and public — in energy and environmental technologies, and they are even more enormous at global level. It is worthwhile for Finland to take up their share of them and also to take care — now that we are talking about these EU recovery instruments — to mobilise more private, especially private, private, environmental and energy technology research, development and innovation investments, because there is now a huge amount of bloody competition between establishments within large global groups as to whether research, development and innovation activities are being carried out in Finland, the Yankees, Russia, China or Italy, and then this kind of involvement of the public sector is often absolutely crucial — that we as net contributors are not supporting the research infrastructure of other countries' energy and environmental technologies. That is something we cannot afford, and it is a matter of national interest. This will enable us globally to help the world and bring export euros here to finance welfare services. Then, as far as the level of the person concerned is concerned, the representatives mentioned this very well. We talked about driving and a lot of other things. It is another thing that must be promoted by its own weight, but we will have the emphasis on taking over the global market and technology. And such a sinister atmosphere, if Congressman Ollikainen uses a car in a situation where there are no other options... You can't blame it on any level. It's all right on every level. In other words, I would like to see patience and sense in this home field game, but then a huge global ambition when it comes to Finnish technology exports. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u92	Mr President! Mr Strand has just said well that we people are being blamed for this climate change. I would like to tell you — and you know it yourself — that more than a thousand years ago in Greenland was cultivated. A little over 30 years ago in the '80s, we froze. Yes, this is a lot of intimidation from someone, and now according to this we are going to the sauna. Seriously, hey. This is, of course, just my opinion, so you can have whatever you want about it. Here in Finland, too, there are professors, respected professors who have checked these things and found that we are actually living in the warmest time on earth at the moment, and nobody is talking about it. The earth’s climate is constantly changing, and then, a thousand years ago, when Greenland was cultivated, there were no factories — how could that be? You might want to think about that. As someone said here in the Chamber just now, I heard that ‘success’,and from cash to a certain question,so I support Mr Peltokangas’s presentation. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u93	Mr President! Congressman Mäkynen, you don't have to think about it in your own head, which is why Greenland was cultivated a thousand years ago. There has been a great deal of research on this subject, and there are few subjects where research is as unanimous as it is about the fact that global warming is real and has played a crucial role for man, especially in industrial time. This is not a matter of opinion, [Jukka Mäkynen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u96	Mr President! Congressman Kontula there referred to the Finns of Peru in some way that we are trying to deny this climate change. [Base Finns Group :Erikos! ] Well, I'm sure of it. [Give Kontula interlude] I went to the National Museum a few months ago, and there on the wall of the National Museum it read: “The thick ice of the Finnish blanket kilometres. 18,000 years ago it began to melt.” So, yes, it's true, climate change is true. What we are going to do now to prevent it — let us hope that we do not create an ice age. What I wanted to talk about here and what the representatives here are saying is that we need to control emissions: I, too, have a little agreement that emissions should be controlled, but they should involve some kind of rationality.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u97	Mr President! I have come here again because, in my opinion, honourable Members from the left used speeches that gave the impression that the people of Finland are not concerned about this Tellus. Yes, we are just as concerned, but we are mainly concerned now about how this people will survive. I have put a written question to the Minister about what is the price tag in this development, the price tag of our ambition. By this I mean that the European Union's carbon neutrality, emissions target for 2050, but Finland's ambition is to achieve it 20 years early in 2030-35. What's the price tag? I believe that in this climate debate and for the climate, wherever it goes, in cold or hot, we should be able to hold a joint debate and take into account the impact it has on the economy. I would see it as a more sensible option to go hand in hand with its 2050 common European objective, but not. There is now an ideological problem in this Chamber. Think of the views of their own ideology and their own voters and not the interests of the Finnish people. Let's talk about the effects. So when solutions are always asked by us Finns, I would like to ask the Minister and the representatives of the government parties if we do not have the same opportunities to innovate and develop industries, export products, all markets if we go at the same rate as the European Union, 2050. If anyone claims that it is not, then I claim that we can make innovations today, we can encourage our companies to do it early, to be the first to do it with them. We do not have to be the world leader in innovation in 2030-35. This is what I consider to be a big problem, because this is where the spear has gone, that now Finland needs to show us how good we are and punch the feather in the hat, and the Finnish people are paying, the agricultural industries are paying, our industry is paying a bitter price for all of this. I am prepared to go and discuss the 2050 targets with a sensible formula, because it is a long period of time where we can then look at the footprint of the real climate change and together we can see if this whole thing is worthwhile, where it develops. Not that we destroy our livelihoods first with strict obligations and then may even be so that afterwards we find out why we had to be so ambitious. Mr President! Ambition is good. It is good for this people; this people has always been ambitious. We are still a pioneer in many things at the moment, and we are probably proud of it throughout the Chamber. But where that ambition is used, I think it should be carefully considered. This 20-year head start in global climate change for Finland is almost a joke. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need to save the earth, this nation of five million — and we cannot — but we can be a pioneer in industry and innovation if we support the production and technology of our own country. It requires a healthy economy and money to support companies. With this policy we will not succeed, and I hope that the government will now take a spoon in its beautiful hand, remove this target from 2030 to 35 and declare with honour that we will, together with the peoples of Europe, step up to the 2050 objective, and in it, including the road map, take a close look at what we will have to look at after a decade. Is it still the same, or has the idea changed at that point? When we talk about ten years, 20 years of tradition, so much, dear friends, happens. A few words about peat, because it is now what destroys our current security of energy supply: I am very happy that both green and central, I would stress, individual Members of Parliament have taken a position that we are perhaps at a bit too ambitious a pace. I would hope that there will be an atmosphere of discussion in this Chamber that we should take some sense into it. And I do not hope that from that left we will start to blame the Finns of Peru for not feeling responsible for this Tellus. I would like to emphasise that we are aware of our responsibilities, but we are aware of that responsibility by virtue of the fact that it must benefit and keep this country standing. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u98	Secretary Mikkonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u99	President! Thank you to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for a good report on this annual report on climate change. Indeed, as stated in the report, we have already tried to develop this report from the first version, and now, of course, we want it to be further developed. It is important that the report presents an overall picture and that all emissions have been covered, even though, initially under the Climate Act, only this report has begun with regard to KAISU, i.e. the burden-sharing sector. But, indeed, already in this report we wanted to bring that overall picture, and, of course, now that the new climate law is being prepared, it is also important that we have this comprehensive planning system so that we can look at all the emissions at once, so that we know where we are going and how much more action is needed. And just as the report has said, more action is needed to achieve our objective of 2035 carbon neutrality. As regards transport, for example, when the need to reduce transport emissions has also been raised here, this road map for fossil-free transport is being prepared, and it is precisely in that direction that we are going to look for the means, the various means and also the means that are appropriate to the various parts of the country. As we know, there are still many places where we have to rely on private cars. It is utopia if we think it can be abandoned, but we can think about how to find low-emission solutions, and biogas, for example, which has risen in this debate, is one way. Well, then, these adaptation measures have also been raised here in a great deal, or the need has been taken into account, and that is precisely how this adaptation should be strengthened. We know that even now the climate has warmed up, even now it affects our agriculture, it affects our forestry, it affects many livelihoods. For example, such long periods of drought and heat cause challenging situations in many workplaces, and therefore this adjustment also plays a strong role. The debate highlighted why Finland should have such an ambitious objective and why we are not satisfied with the EU's 2050 target. Personally, I think that Finland, if anyone now has the opportunity to be the one in the front row among the EU peoples. We have countries there, such as Poland, Hungary, many of the Eastern European countries that, because of history, are attached to fossil energy, and we do not have this burden. That is why we have a huge opportunity and it will also bring us those jobs, as Mr Strand, for example, raised concrete examples of what is being done in Vaasa and how export incomes and jobs have been achieved. I myself think that we have the education, we have the knowledge, our industry has the ability to solve problems. And I believe that this same message has come from both the EK and the technology industry, for example. I do not know if Mr Peltokangas has been absent from these times,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u102	Mr President! Thank you to Minister Mikkos for a good three minutes: a very good thing. Maybe a few more things I wanted to come here with a few points. Climate change can be anything you want, it is all right, it is part of this world that opinion is free, but it does not change the physical fact that at the moment human activity — in practice the burning of fossil energy and land use — is driving dangerously fast climate change. It is a very dangerous matter, a threat to our future well-being as a whole, and it is regrettable that, although there is very extensive scientific information available about this — it must, as it were, be buried in the sand, refused to accept it — it is still being questioned here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u107	And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to see some clarification in keeping with this report on climate change, which is the title. — Let us not go into debatation in this context, Mr Peltokangas will be able to reply to many other representatives in his own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u108	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Just a little bit longer. In my previous speech, I spoke about the global market in energy and environmental technologies and how many hundred billion there are divided on an annual basis, and what that means to our companies, given that Finland has exported expertise and technology as part of energy production, transfer or consumption and components to every country in the world — Finnish know-how, but not yet at the system level, which has enormous potential for system-level energy and environmental technology. But let us stay short in the country. I know quite well certain energy companies, including municipal energy companies, which are giving up that last coal burning even early, and when you look at the discussions, the aid applications and the preliminary decisions that have come from the direction of the TEM, it is also partly disappointing. In this we all still have to do and remind ourselves that when you genuinely give up something early when you have a technical life span left and everything else, then you should also compensate for it. If I say no to Mr Ollikai using his own car, it is not right for me to pay for all of them then to support Mr Harjante. There's a lot of work to be done. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u109	Mr President! Our job is to cultivate and preserve. On that basis, I am thinking of climate change and biodiversity. We are now discussing this year's report on climate change, which is a useful and necessary document. It is good to discuss together the building of a sustainable future. Climate change is a problem recognised by almost everyone, and Finland must also take responsibility for it. We must all shoulder our responsibilities through our own choices. It does not mean guilt, it means responsibility, we want to leave the world to our children in a better condition than we have received it ourselves. As the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on Transport and Communications consider, the objectives set must be pursued by means of a wide range of means. Policy will create attractive and natural opportunities for people and businesses to achieve a more low-emission life. For example, a commuter train in the Oulu region and many other cities would contribute to a sustainable way of living and moving. It would be an easy alternative to the use of private vehicles. There is a lot of daily commuting in the area, which congests the main routes. Local rail transport would facilitate work, study and business traffic and contribute to the fight against climate change. The increasing frequency and stabilisation of teleworking beyond exceptional circumstances also have an impact on the need for mobility and emissions. The construction of fibre optics in rural and urban areas opens up opportunities for more permanent remote work. I don't want the Internet breaking up. Representative Mäenpää spoke here about the Finnish steel industry. Business is the most effective way to deliver new innovative solutions to the challenges of a crisis-stricken world. I have listened with joy to the joint project of SSAB's steel plant and energy company Vattenfall, which aims to produce steel without CO2 emissions. The replacement of coal with hydrogen would significantly reduce emissions from steel production. At the same time, it might be possible to determine how, for example, wind - powered electricity could be stored. Innovations would play a major role in the carbon balance of Finland and possibly also of the world, that is, the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. It is the task of the public authorities to implement clear price incentives for the economic environment in order to steer developments in this direction. According to one study, the production of crude iron by a new method was 20-30% more expensive in the second year than coal. However, emissions trading has narrowed the price gap. Companies take part in climate action when they see better business opportunities in the change. In the long term, the natural laws governing business activities are in the interests of society as a whole. These innovations should be developed and taken to the world. We have a very good chance of developing and exporting such environmental technologies. Let us also take care of our growing forests so that they absorb as much carbon as possible. Try to get rid of the burning of fossil fuels in large cities. There has also been talk of peat. The shutdown of its energy use is now taking place far too quickly. This has, of course, been the result of a longer development. With regard to the use of peat for energy purposes, we must ensure security of supply in our country, but also the needs of peat and peat. Mr President! It is good that the challenges are discussed, solved together, cultivated and preserved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u110	Mr President! A few words about peat. The starting point is that about half of the world’s — that is, the world’s — peat use takes place in Finland. The combustion of peat produces between 10% and 12% of our greenhouse gases. Therefore, peat plays a crucial role when talking about Finland’s action in climate change. Why I did not mention peat in my own introductory speech is due to the fact that the use of peat's energy is constantly decreasing on its own market. By 2030 it is estimated to have already decreased by 70%. Well, when it is done on market terms, it is, of course, done according to the laws of the normal market and there are no specific compensatory methods. If we now want to slow down change in some other society, such as that in transport, we can speed up the combustion of peat because peat employs 2,500 people. It is such a small group that even if we paid them life-long pensions, it would still not be visible in the state economy in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u115	Now, Mr. Fieldkangas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u116	Thank you, Mr President. To this point right away: Mr Kontula, you have just said that the EU is not the boss of us, it is nature. Well, where does that nature determine — could you tell us — the 2030-35 target to be carbon neutral? Nowhere. So this is a very special speech. Well, yeah, I'd like to focus a little on this... Thank you to the Minister, he was here to say a few words, said that we should be at the forefront of innovation development. I would like to return to the fact that we cannot be at the forefront of innovation if we are not involved in such an ambitious goal, that is to say, in our only objective of the 2030s. Can we not be at the forefront if we are like other wise countries in the 2050 objective? Well, the minister mentioned my name and the slip in the back room. Say hi to the minister. Come back here and talk to me. I'm sure the people would like to know what the Minister's opinion is. It is easy: visit here to discuss, and when you have made your own speech you will leave without hearing the answers. Well, thank you for coming in at all. The minister here also said that the field fabric had been removed. Minister, I am the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I am relatively busy at committee meetings — I think there will be one absence within a year. Mr President! This committee’s report states: ‘According to the short-termpreliminary data of 2019,the net sink of the land use sector was17.4megatonnes,or wasconfirmed by the clear scientific - This is great. — ‘Net emissions decreased significantly compared to the scientific year by around The decrease in net emissions was influenced both by the reduction in emissions and by the strengthening of carbon sinks.’ This is where I'd catch a catch. Here, Mr Harjanne, the Greens, said very well that a common direction and a common debate and negotiation would be good. I have offered it, and I have asked on several occasions whether it would be appropriate for the Finnish Parliament to debate in order to achieve these objectives, precisely how we can improve these sinks. Everyone knows that we have about 4.2 million hectares of wild swamps that are not counted as carbon sinks here in LULUCF. It is, of course, a little difficult for the public to explain, this is such a long-term thing — your brush will certainly continue. The fact that it is not accepted as a full carbon sink is understandable because this formula is based on the formula of the land use sector. However, I would be in favour of biology in the sense that when we have contacting swamp growth, it does act as some sort of sinkhole. It would be wise for us to bring this up together. And I would be willing to re-examine it in this house — I think it was the great committee that threw it on the coin — whether the peat is a renewable resource or not. So it was thrown on a coin in the decision-making process of this house. Think about it, citizens. Perhaps it would be wise to take that coin again and toss the coin so long that we can see the same biological fact as our neighbours that it is a renewable resource. The fact is that less peat is used when more is added. So it is a renewable resource — a point. Our swamp is nothing different from the swamps of neighbouring countries; yes, it should do. This would be one of the solutions in which we could almost get rid of transport emissions, and I think it would be very worthwhile to take this into account, because at the moment there on the left there is a wedge-eyed tax on motor fuels, so that carbon neutrality can be achieved, but such a realistic biological means are not acceptable. Well, the answer is probably because of the EU. And I will return to the fact, Mr Kontula, that the EU does not dictate us. Is this how it was? — Thank you, President — President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u117	Thank you, and thank you for the repair. — and the representatives should be informed that Minister Mikkonen had to leave for another meeting at six o’clock and I gave him the floor scarcely before six o’clock. That's why he couldn't stay. It was assumed that this debate had already taken place by six.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u118	Mr President! Representative Kontula raised the problems of peat and said that it destroys — or I did not take into account specific words, but that it practically destroys Finnish nature. I think this climate hysteria has created such a stamp on the peat that it is horrendous that it should not be lifted. However, it is our national energy resource, it is a God-given resource for us and we should use it wisely. Our peat balance is growing annually, even though we are raising peat. The amount of peat in Finland is growing more and more than we have consumed. If you think of the individual peat bog from which it is raised, of course that landscape will change there. But when the peat is removed from it completely, you will know for sure that it will reveal — there will be stones and perhaps a small layer of peat left behind, which is no longer profitable to repair, but there will be huge reserves of mineral soil beneath it. When you plant a forest, it grows there joyfully and quickly. So it's not about destroying nature. From there, when it is dug out, we get good forestland, forest planting ground, and it then acts as a carbon sink — as Mr Peltokangas said, the peat bog also acts as a carbon sink. It is absurd for us to treat our own energy resources in this way here in Parliament. Your government's proposal has ruined this productivity of peat, the profitability of raising its peat. You must have read that a number of different people may have made a generation change. They've been renovating equipment and buying peat, and now you're ruining their economy. You're making them unemployed. You're making them homeless. All they owe them is money. — Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u119	Thank you. — I would like to remind the honourable Members that when you are speaking there in the Chamber, we will try to keep that mask on our faces. It's been agreed here that you can talk without a mask.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u120	Mr President! Mr Deputy Representative Hillhead, there is such a thing as biodiversity, and it is not measured by the mass of the swamp, nor is it measured by the number of forests planted. Biodiversity is also directly linked to global warming. As it decreases when we allow ourselves to go too far, we will also be in trouble with unforeseen environmental phenomena that may significantly and unexpectedly also accelerate global warming. The representative of the field fabric, 2035 is certainly not a natural condition, whereas 1.5 is a natural condition, [Mauri Peltokankaan intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u121	Mr President! There's so many things going on here, there's not enough time to take on everyone. Perhaps this innovative idea of Mr Peltokangas uses the sinks of swamp nature, as it were in our own balance sheet: when the problem is precisely that human activity alters the equilibrium of the atmosphere, then we need to tackle it of human origin, in other words, accounting does not make it out of the physical problem. At the same time, it is quite irrelevant in terms of the atmosphere and biodiversity in the final games what coins we throw out of peat. The physical real effects here are those that are dangerous, which we must stop. That's why the time for peat is running out. In a way, it is not changed by us here deciding that peat is a good thing and it does not destroy the nature of the swamps and so on, and we are going to go along with these. When it is not in line with the surrounding reality, it does not really make much difference. By the way, what conditions nature imposes is in itself a good question. At the point in the report on climate change, whether or not Chapter 9 stresses that the urgency of adaptation measures is being emphasised — i.e. operators must adapt to the fact that global warming is already taking place. These measures, which we are doing now, are in fact very small compared to what has been projected at temperatures above and above 1.5 and above 2 degrees, especially in other parts of the world, which can have really terrible spill-over effects on the global economy as a whole and therefore also on us and our security. It's much better to prevent these things. In fact, such a risk comparison simply cannot be made because the worst scenarios are so bad that they are not rationally considered as an alternative. But it is better to combat climate change than to see what it brings — it should be a matter of course. Then this whole debate is marked by such a problem that the Finns have taken on the role of raising problems related to various climate measures,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u124	And now we are trying to keep the rest of the speeches accurately in this annual climate report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u125	Mr President! In the report on climate change and in the committee's debate, peat was very much raised and is one of the most crucial factors, at least now from the government's point of view, because it was there that this peat tax was lifted and the industry was driven down. The representative, Kontula, has made an excellent point here about the dismantling of the market-based peat production. This has been known that it has faded there, and when this was known to the government, why was it not allowed to be? You have made a merciless acceleration by increasing taxation. This is inconceivable. Mr Harjanne has rightly raised the responsibility, the responsibility for what is said to people, not to frighten them, and let us do the right thing. You work for climate change in your own bubble, and the effects today, the effects of your responsible action, to improve climate change are as follows: peat burning stopped, for example. From Kokkola, and now we're shipping wood chips on ships. Can you, Mr Harjanne, now tell the people how it is better for climate change and what the question of responsibility here is where we are now looking for a gruff chest? So let us put an end to the so-called 'better' option and start shipping on ships for chippings around the world. When we talk about that responsibility and you say that we are populism here, I am doing that populism if you think the fact is populism. Pick it up when it comes out of the pipe, according to your facts, it's worse than burning peat. When it is shipped on ships around the world, I claim — correct me if I am wrong — that its carbon footprint is quite tougher than that it is brought out of the peat swamp and burned from it five miles [8 km] away.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u128	Mr President! Representative Kontula took up a word like "biodiversity". If you, Mr Kontula, hear in your own room, could you tell us whether the costs incurred during the transport of wood or wood imported for the purpose of replacing peat, and in particular the emissions generated by transport, are included in any of these calculations? I'm pretty sure you're not paying attention to them at all. I am not surprised, even if this leads to the end of the peat in Finland by a government tax increase decision and the beginning of bringing it here from Russia. It is not peat born in Finland at the time, and then you will have clean cards on your hands. Maybe that's your line, that when it's only imported from somewhere else, then it's okay, but you can't use peat in Finland. Mr Harjanne is certainly well aware of the fact — and I appreciate your view that you yourself are concerned — that peat is being replaced by wood. In my opinion, it should take particular account of the fact that the wood is also imported from outside and that some beetles that do not exist in our forests may come with it. It may be that you, by your actions, will destroy the Finnish forests in addition to everything else. Congressman Kontula spoke of waste recycling. I've been recycling waste myself for 20 years. I have probably done it better than many people in this Chamber, and I was in fact very annoyed when, under pressure from society, I now had to transfer the waste from a real estate company to municipal activities, because I know that the treatment of waste went in a worse direction than the recycling of it in private. Congressman Kontula told me about his broken washing machine. I agree that of course the washing machine should last longer, but we live in a market economy. Even Congressman Kontula must have bought a washing machine that has been known to turn on immediately, that it will not last very long. Manufacturers manufacture machines that withstand:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u129	Mr President! The question of this peat has now been raised many times, although it is not directly part of this annual report. I don't think it's much of a... I think it is important not to replace peat permanently and on a large scale with wood chips. It's obviously happening now. Let it be as small as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u138	I think this is... — Aa, there is still representative Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u139	Mr President! Thank you again for the floor. When I thought that I wanted to listen to this debate, there was some reason why more notes were made than there were so many more colleagues in the Chamber than there were now in this debate. On the other hand, when I made my own speech, in which I thought that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection was very good in that sense, should I say, sensible or wise, that it was a personal position to make this work even easier to read, more transparent and more inclusive, I also think that, with this debate in the Chamber, it was written there, because I claim that only when we have the same information and we are able to have an insatiable debate on matters are those debates which are also much more fruitful. Then I have to say that if you think about the Minutes, this certainly now seemed to be a debate here from the point of view of the government or the opposition, just, and only from the point of view of peat policy, for example, in relation to these environmental issues. But this was indeed the climate year report for 2020, and of course this debate will now continue not only in our committee, where we will be able to work with Mr Peltokangas, but also in this Chamber and in various ministries, because all this work is, however, intersectoral work. In conclusion, I would also like to say to myself here that, when such a statement came to light, it was, in a way, claimed that these climate measures and actions are an ideological problem in this Chamber. I have the courage to disagree completely with that. I would like to think that climate action and action – which is also understood and believed in by a large percentage of our people – are not an ideological problem, but are also the keys to our better future, which of course also relates to the new jobs to come, to the increase in employment rates, which I am sure is also linked to the hope that all the parliamentary groups in this House will agree that this is an important priority for us, how we will get as much employment as possible in Finland. This is in brief from this Climate Year Report 2020. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will continue this parliamentary term with this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u140	I'm sure it does. — Mr Peltokangas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u141	Thank you, Chairman! In short, first of all, thank Mrs Taimela and also Mr Harjante for a good debate. Representative The trout here set a good example of how these things should be developed. I agree that it is good to invest in the clear language of the climate report, which is easy to read, in the future. It is for the benefit of everyone, especially the benefit of the public, to get a better catch on that issue. As far as peat is concerned, I will return briefly to the fact that it is very pleasant to exchange views on this issue with Mr Harjante. After all, we only now have that government peat tax increase and its effects, and when gauges are required, it is now the measure when I see it in that Ostrobothnia, how it works. Perhaps this is why I am quite quick to take a stand now through peat, because there are almost bankruptcies in the neighborhood. If, as a result of the decisions taken in this Chamber or in the committees, the Finnish goes all the way to financial distress and bankruptcy, I find it quite extraordinary that it cannot be taken as a matter of concern in this Chamber, but is labelled populism. Congressman Kontula said how it affects a person. It has the effect that millions of people who have invested in machines will now be forced to remove them as scrap iron and, at worst, will soon be abandoned by Voud. Such decisions should not be taken in this Chamber, and that is why my idea was that I would have liked the government to have made progress with this climate policy in such a way as to have looked at those effects a little in advance and not only when the package is in hand. In other words, there is cooperation here, but many times in the committee we have to say that there is a slight change to the statement that immediately as the bird's nest is screamed, it is not going to happen. Let us hope that that too will change. Thank you for this debate. I am sure that we will return to these matters there in the committees even later, and I will also be happy to have a personal discussion with the representatives. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-07-ps-159.u142	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
