ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u2	Congressman Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u3	Mr President! The EU recovery package and the huge fall of thousands of millions of euros for Finland will draw us for decades from the trade union to the debt union community. The recovery package could therefore be called the euro crisis package. This is a matter of great importance in principle, and it is a sensitive subject. After all, the Centre, the SDP and the Left have previously criticised the payment of bills from other countries, at least in the run-up to the elections. Mr Government, you have repeatedly stressed how you base your decision on the information and facts that have been studied. After you have told us about the benefits of the package and the dangers of rejecting the package, surely you have an impact assessment of the benefits of the recovery package for Finland? Why have we been told in the committees that no impact assessment has been carried out? Do you think this is a fact-based decision-making process?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u4	Mr President! These impact assessments will be carried out at the level of the Union as a whole. We have also called for them. They are not yet ready, there are not yet the conditions for making them, there are no country-specific plans, but, of course, impact assessments are part of this preparation, and they must be done not only in the Commission but also in the European Central Bank's own economic forecasts, and we must do the same work. But there are still no conditions to make that impact assessment. The amount of money that will eventually be spent is still open.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u6	Mr President! We Finns are concerned about Finland's export industry. When countries competing with Finland receive billion-dollar subsidies for industrial renewal and Finland pays these costs by taxing our own industry, we are already giving benefits to others in a very difficult competitive situation. What are you going to do, Mr Government, to prevent the recovery package from distorting competition and hampering the activities of Finnish companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u7	Mr President! We need resuscitation. That must be a vision that is quite widely shared in this Chamber. The economic situation is such that we need measures to keep businesses up and keep jobs up, and these measures are needed both nationally and then at EU level. And that is, in fact, what this recovery solution now brings. It has been recommended by economic policy advisers that, alongside monetary policy measures, such a stimulus at EU level should also be provided to support national recovery, and it is also sensible in the sense that, if each country were to revive itself alone, it would be particularly in this export-driven economy, such as Finland, that its benefits would flow to other countries and we would not benefit from it all, but when all the Member States jointly co-ordinatedly revive it will benefit us all, and that is what we are doing here. In addition, we will ensure that EU state aid rules and competition policy are brought forward in the long term towards the rules of the internal market so that the solutions now being adopted do not distort competition.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u8	Mr President! Mr Vanhanen, the finance minister, said quite frankly that there are no impact assessments. However, a political decision has now been taken in Europe to divide 750 billion without impact assessments. Finland is committed to paying EUR 6.6 billion without impact assessments and to guaranteeing the second without impact assessments. Is this what this government is capable of? Let us bring such a proposal before Parliament — it makes absolutely no sense. Yesterday, when the Prime Minister’s announcement on this matter was discussed, the Finns of Peru tried to discuss this package. Other people went to talk about the Finns and talked about the difference in the EU. I asked if Finland was threatened that if we did not accept this package, Finland would be thrown out of the EU. There was no answer to this. Nor did I receive an answer as to what would happen in the view of the government if Finland did not approve this package. Do you have any answers for these?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u9	Mr President! Impact assessments are an essential part of this whole preparation. We do, of course, have an estimate that if EUR 750 billion is spent in just over two years, what is its share in the annual national product of the whole of Europe, but we do not even know how much of the EUR 400 billion loan will be mobilised and, in particular, for what purposes they will be used. These will ultimately have an impact on what the impact on employment and on the national product is, and these forecasts will be ready for time. When Parliament makes its own resources decision later in the autumn, then we should have better estimates of the impact of this on the development of the entire economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u10	Mr President! It is good that the debate started with these impact assessments. I guess we didn't make any impact assessments until the Brexit came. The impact assessments have now been made and it is stated that before the Brexit comes into force, the British people will have incurred more than 47 years of membership fees. In other words, it does show that the debate that the Finns of Finland are having here - and they have tabled initiatives - on the reorganization of the European referendum - I really hope that there will be impact assessments before this issue is seriously discussed. But I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: because it is extremely important that this solution should be unique, how the government and Finland intends to promote the introduction of this debt mechanism in order to ensure that the economy of all EU countries is in a strong enough condition when the next crisis is threatened and that there is no need to go down the road of joint lending?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u11	Mr President! This is emphasised by the fact that a decision of this kind is taken separately, requires the approval of all countries; even a single country can prevent it; it must have a legal basis for EU legislation. All of this is true, this is a one-off. We have different kinds of crises. About ten years ago, there was a financial crisis. The measures taken were also one-off and did not need to be repeated. Part of the fact that they did not need to be repeated in this crisis is that after that arrangements were made, for example, with regard to banking regulation globally and also at European level. In this respect, you are quite right in your idea that the next step in moving this debt regime forward would be to influence the needs of future crises.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u12	Mr President! For me, patriotism is not about wanting to separate Finland from the Western community and go deep into the arms of Russia. Nor is it giving an open cheque to the European Union. In this context, patriotism is, in my view, a critical attitude towards the new development of the European Union and an understanding of what the real values of the European Union are. Freedom, democracy and security — what are we prepared to pay for these values? A lot, but now the government is playing high-risk because the limit comes along, which means there's too much. This is not just a matter of the net contributor's role, but of Finland's future and security to a very long future. Mr Government, why did you not use these negotiations to confirm:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u13	Mr President! Thank you for your question. You started that the Union is taking a new direction, and that is true in the sense that this corona pandemic is a new situation for everyone. Neither the EU nor Finland have ever faced anything like this, and this crisis, the joint health crisis and the subsequent economic crisis, was reacted differently from the previous euro crisis or the wave of immigration in 2015. Now all the Member States agree together, unanimously, on this recovery package. One country could have brought this down, but together we have made this decision. And what exactly is the price? I think that we can well reflect on what was discussed before this solution: the question of the fate of the EU was raised with a rather serious tone. If this solution had not been reached, the whole of the EU, its credibility, its ability to act, would have been called into question, but the agreement reached shows that:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u14	Mr President! It is not the basic Finns who are harassing this stimulus package that opposes it; it is the fundamentals that are at stake, how these things should be implemented. In reality, we know that EUR 750 billion will not even be enough to meet the need that many countries in southern Europe alone have to put their economies in order. Italy, for example, already had a government debt of 134 per cent before the interest rate crisis, compared with just under 60 per cent of GDP. In addition to this, Italy has a great deal of debts, as I mentioned yesterday, that the French banks alone expect 500 billion from them. This is where we want to revitalize these economies so that they can live on debt again, and that is something that the Finns of Peru do not accept. We do not accept that our citizens' money should be given, as if, if you could say, after blackmail, to countries in the European Union that are not properly managing their economies after that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u15	Mr President! We cannot always influence what has happened in the past and in what situation we are in, but in economic decisions, economic policy is worth bearing in mind one thing: it is worth considering each situation as a reality. And what the level of debt in the various countries is, we have not been able to change this situation, but this situation must be taken as it is and must be influenced. I was just talking about the financial crisis. Even then, we had no impact assessments, and we could not help making mistakes in the banks, but at that time the government brought a guarantee decision into this Chamber. Guess how big it was — here many remember it: it was EUR 50 billion. With one decision, we secured the banking system, and EUR 4 billion was offered as a mandate that we would be prepared to capitalise banks instead of bank owners.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u19	Mr President! There is always talk of the benefits of the EU, which seem very abstract, even mystical. On the other hand, those costs or negative things are not very well identified, and indeed, even in this package, the impact assessment has not been made. Then the second alternative to the debate seems to be this rather childish Russian card: as if we were to tell about the negative consequences of our membership of the EU and our Union, that would mean that we want to hold Russia, not to mention that we are paying billions of dollars to other countries, would mean that we want to hold Russia. This is a very childish argument. I would also like to ask you how a Union which, every ten years, is failing without massive rescue and support packages, could bring us security. In July, we asked Parliament to speak on this big issue. You said political theatre. I think your attitude is an extreme contempt for democracy and the information of the people. I ask the government: why did you not want to discuss it in July? Do you believe that defending Finland’s sovereignty is a political theatre?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u20	Mr President! It is, of course, up to Parliament to convene a plenary session, but I would like to remind the parliamentarians that, when this whole was prepared for the European Council meeting in July, all that preparation took place here in Parliament, in its committees. Parliament is more than just this big hall: it is represented by all the committees of experts and, ultimately, the Finnish line is formulated in the large parliamentary committee. This procedure was carried out on the basis of all the points, which may be confirmed by the Members of Parliament involved. This is a very important debate. I would not at all like to accept the insinuations that this government has withheld Parliament's right to hold a debate. Prime Minister Marin received his mandate from a large committee which looked at and gave a mandate for negotiation. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u22	I would ask you to take note of the fact that you speak here one at a time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u23	Mr President! It should be borne in mind that the reason why such a Europe-wide recovery is taking place at all is that we have European countries which themselves have put their own economies in such a bad position that their national conditions for resorting to such resuscitation solutions are very poor. The problem with this whole situation is that even in this arrangement there are not very good incentives for these countries to ensure that even in the future they will have a public economy in such a way that such national recovery will be possible. Now it also seems that the government is allowing new holes to be fired on the core treaties and related articles of the European Union — not least because of the fact that we have originally started with the 'no bail-out' principle, the debts of other countries will not be taken into account for solidarity. What the government intends to do and in what ways to ensure,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u24	This Article 122, to which these decisions also relate, underlines the common solidarity when problems arise. I was negotiating that article. It was then thought that its background was, for example, major natural disasters, floods, or others, and it included the idea that one region or one country would be prepared to help together. No bail-out does not mean that the Member States of the Union do not have the right to help a country that is in need. Now it was just a huge crisis on a scale, an accident in which we are victims, and I do not think that anyone will deny that such an accident is taking place at the moment. It is a question of whether it is better to work together in a coordinated way, or whether everyone is playing on their own, and here we have chosen to do our own action, but also joint action.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u25	Mr President! The Minister of Finance raised this legal basis, Article 122. If this legal basis is used, then all the distribution of money should be explicitly linked to the damage caused by this corona virus. Now, however, as has been demonstrated here and in my own replies, the situation is that this is a fiscal stimulus for those countries which are no longer able to obtain loans on the market either at a sufficiently low interest rate or perhaps at all. In that sense, this concern is justified as to how the European economy may also overheat in the next few years, which economists have warned against when hundreds of billions of dollars are pushed into small economies in an instant. For example, if you consider Bulgaria, whose gross domestic product these subsidies represent 15%, consider what kind of economic bubble is coming to Bulgaria. Why has the government started to support a package of this kind that does not make sense in economic policy, which will cause the next crisis that will bring about an economic bubble? Why do Finnish taxpayers want their money in the financial bubble of southern European shareholders?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u26	President! I am not going to comment on whether or not this is about to cause overheating. Time will tell. The answer to the question of whether fiscal policy should be used to deal with such a crisis is that monetary stimulus alone is not enough. Yes, very many experts have long called for fiscal policy measures to be taken alongside monetary policy, and monetary policy resuscitation. I think that everyone has agreed, and that is what is being done here, and I think that is the right solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u27	Mr President! Whether or not this debate took place in this house is unambiguous. In fact, the big committee gave the Prime Minister Marin a rather tight lunch, and I think he took his responsibilities very well and delivered the Finnish message. [Base Finns Group : Water money! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u30	Mr President! I consider it valuable and important that the country's main discussion arena, Parliament, should reflect on the future of the EU through this important decision to finance the recovery, but at the same time – quite rightly, as Mr Kalmari points out – will consider nationally, on the basis of the guidelines of the country's government, what this contribution to Finland will be spent on in the coming years. This is a major package of money for which the main message is: we need new growth, we need new work. The examples mentioned by the representative are quite potential targets when it comes to where new growth fins could be found in Finland and thus in Europe as a whole. I believe that the key word here is the budget for research and development in this government in my area of responsibility, so that new ideas can emerge and, as a result, new work. And I believe that until now, Finland's strong stone legs — technological know-how,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u31	I would like to add two more words to this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u32	Mr President! Time and again in this Chamber, when the importance of the EU's recovery fund is underestimated, and indeed the whole of the EU at times, it has to be said that Finland is a small, export-driven country in Europe and on the outskirts of the European Economic Area. For Finland, the recovery of the European market from the corona is a necessity. It is also important for us to have peace in Europe. The world's tumbling, right next door to us. The EU is originally a peace union, and that is what the EU has really succeeded in doing. Mr Vanhanen, could you repeat once again what a blow it would be for Finnish companies if the European market were not revived?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u33	President! Nor should we try to prove the all-powerful nature of this stimulus package. [Base Finns Group : Seontotta!] We export between 50% and 60% of our exports to the EU. We are one of the most export-dependent countries in the European Union as a whole, and every order that is not available due to lack of demand is reflected in our job opportunities and workplaces.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u34	Thank you, Mr Vallin, for asking the first question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u35	Mr President! The Italian Anti-Mobile Research Agency has commented that billions of euros are flowing into Europe and Italy, and the Mafia is not just looking at the sidelines, it is diving into the financial sea — that is what this Research Office has said. The European Police Office has stated that the risk is not limited to Italy alone. The Italian mafia has committed this type of crime in EU countries involving various types of EU aid. Mr Government, despite the emergency braking mechanism, the threshold to intervene in the use of funds from a single country is high. How do you think you can prevent the misuse of funds?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u36	Mr President! This is an important issue because we too are very interested in the money being put in the right places. Only in that way will we ensure a Europe-wide recovery and the right targets,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u39	And the Attorney General Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u40	Mr President! It is a very good thing that the representative is asking for this. A new Public Prosecutor’s Office (EPPO) is also emerging in the EU, in which Finland is now joining. It is the responsibility of this Public Prosecutor's Office to ensure that this kind of abuse does not arise and that EU funds are not used in wrong matters, and that is why Finland has participated in this cooperation and is doing so very seriously. The point is to catch the bandits. That is why every EU country that is involved in this is going to be a prosecutor who is familiar with these very issues. The day before yesterday, I spoke to Laura Köves, the EU's Chief Prosecutor, on the phone. We are on a good track here, and the intention is, of course, that we want to protect taxpayers' money throughout the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u41	Next question, Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u42	Mr President! Yesterday I was on the municipal market chairing panel and there all five government party chairmen announced that the government programme's target of 75% of the employment rate will not be reached — quite significant information. It raises the question of what the government's economic policy is based on. So, if this path of employment has been abandoned, will it then rely on continued debt, increased taxes or cuts? For us, the way to employment is still the best way for the assembly. We do not dream of a six-hour working day, but of every Finnish having a working day. Mr Vanhanen, what is the government's policy on economic policy? Is it one of these three, or could it still be the way to employment and therefore at least 75% of the employment rate?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u43	Mr President! Even at the end of spring, or was it at the beginning of summer, the government was forced to note that the government's objective of achieving balance in 23 years could not be achieved, but that the new target was set until 2030. That already includes the fact that, when the single most important factor in balancing its economy was a strong rise in employment rates, it is not going down in a situation such as this that the economy is going down. The basic economic policy line, which rests on work, economic growth, has gone nowhere, but in order to achieve economic growth and create employment, of course, we must first deal with this interest rate. It creates a basic condition for returning to the path of economic growth in general. The government is in a budget debate taking the structural decisions that create the conditions for faster growth in employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u44	Thank you. — I would now ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u45	Mr President! There is indeed a need for those employment measures. Mr deputising for the Prime Minister, in yesterday's panel, you reproached me for being so gloomy that I blacked out. It's just that the atmosphere is ruined and dark. It's in Kaipola. It's for those Finnair employees who can't get to work. This is the case in municipalities and municipal decision-makers, municipal workers who are concerned about their jobs and the finances of municipalities. That's what it is for the 42,000 people who are currently unemployed. Because of them, I am gloomy and I am going to be gloomy and ask where the employment measures are until we get economic growth and jobs. Interest is not a reason not to do so; it is a reason, a good government, to do even more. Mr Deputising for the Prime Minister, I congratulate you on your role and responsibility and ask: Will the Government's line change? Are you going to take up some serious decisions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u46	Mr President! Very good, Mr Orpo, that you mentioned this, that the policy objective is a path of hope or hopelessness. It is precisely in this kind of gloomy, exceptionally foggy and particularly uncertain times that our decision-makers have the task of creating faith in the future with our actions and speeches. Above all, it is appropriate to measure the government of the country, quite rightly, both in this and in all previous terms of government. It is clear that in the next few days we will spend all our time and knowledge on this government being the government of Finnish work and entrepreneurship and thus of Finnish well-being. As far as the concern you expressed in your previous question about employment rates is concerned, the illusion arises that the government is creating jobs, as it were. I think that you, Mr Orpo, know just as well that Finnish companies are doing these jobs, and our task, in addition to the belief in the future, is to create stability in the operating environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u47	Mr President! In a crisis, government leadership must be in the middle of an attack. However, the government has not been able to appoint a successor to Hetemäki to the most important task for the economy, the Ministry of Finance's number one post. For the rest of the year, we're going to have replacement arrangements because the political noun puzzle seems to require this. At the same time, many other appointments have gone in a different direction from the point of view of task-specific competence. Minister Ohio, you said in 2016 that political appointments are a problem. However, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior was elected a member of the Greens who has no experience in the work of the security authorities. Yesterday's news was on the news. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u52	I would like to say that this question is not related to the subject of this debate. Let's go to the next one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u53	Mr President! Good government, talk is not enough. We need action now. Local reconciliation is one of the main means of strengthening employment and safeguarding existing jobs. A working group led by the Minister of Labour, Mr Haatainen, has been preparing for the government for a year. Yesterday it was reported that, unfortunately, this government's work will not come to fruition, but that the work of the working group has been lumped together. In Finland, there are as many as 300,000 employees and some 50,000 companies who are not allowed to agree on their own working conditions and individual flexibility in order to save their jobs and livelihoods even in a bad economic situation. This injustice must be rectified and localised agreement allowed for all workers in all companies. Mr Haatainen, the Minister for Labour, as a responsible minister, as a minister concerned about employment, is proposing an extension of the local agreement in the budget debate, even though the Ay movement is opposed to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u54	Mr President! This question of local reconciliation has long been a matter of wallpaper and preparation, and it was already being prepared during the previous parliamentary term, but unfortunately it was not ready. It has been stated in the Government Programme that local agreements will be increased, but based on mutual trust and the fact that they have also been concluded through these collective agreements, and I will continue to do so. We know that there are different conflicts of interest and different views in this area, and it is obvious that this has not disappeared in any of this, but, despite the fact that these conflicts exist, I am still hopeful that we will be able to move forward and find a solution here. After all, we have examples of the technology industry, among other things, that local agreements can well be made,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u55	Mr President! As has been said here, the government has abandoned its employment objective, but instead you have not abandoned expenditure. I have not heard a single speech in which the government has stated that certain expenditure cannot now be increased, including for municipalities. You just proved that your government is a government of Finnish work and entrepreneurship. With this government programme, which you have made, you cannot be this type of government, so I ask: are you going to open a government programme in this economic crisis in such a way that it supports Finnish work and entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u56	Mr President! As far as the economic policy line and the decision-making that the government is facing in the budget debate are concerned, one important aspect of political competence is that it is being done within the timescale. I have to ask you, rhetorically at the very least, whether you would have acted differently during these crisis months during a global pandemic in relation to, for example, the stimulating policy we have taken and kept the Finnish economy spinning and in which way we are also going to continue to save Finnish work, in order to support Finnish entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u59	Mr President! I am concerned that Finnish citizens and workers are divided into two different camps during this corona period. There are those who have a secure, good position in the labour market and then there are those who have suffered more from this crisis, especially young people and job-working, hourly workers. It seems that they now have a rather gloomy view of the future. They feel that they are becoming excluded from working life, they have income problems and, in addition, when you think about the future, these government measures, increased spending and Finland's debt will be quite hard on this particular population group in the future. I have received such feedback that they feel that they have a future in Finland. They have no job, no job prospects in the future, and they will have a really high tax rate to finance all this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u60	Mr President! In this regard, the representative highlighted in particular the role of young people in the labour market and the employment of young people. I would like to stress that some of the expenditure increases that this government is making are precisely investments in the education of young people, and hence also in improving the employment conditions for young people and in the future for young people. I drew attention to the fact that it was stated here that the interest rate was no reason not to — I could not agree more. One of the key reforms being taken forward is, for example, the extension of compulsory education, which specifically strengthens the level of education of young people and thereby improves the labour market conditions for young people. Strong investment, strong investment in the future of young people, and it is maintained despite the corona.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u61	Honorable Speaker! It is true that, at times like these, it is very difficult to coordinate employment and economic policy policies, especially when it is noted that the state is heavily indebted to the treatment of this disease and that we have a reduced level of mobility all the time. I was just wondering whether, when preparing the budget for the coming year, we could consider the impact on employment, add it to the budget, calculate it from there. It would give Members of Parliament an idea of how each article can affect employment. Then, if it is thought that we should get investments in Finland, could there be such temporary free depreciation rights? Is there any way to think about it? And there would also have to be something for the employee side, so there might be a good proposal for action to increase the reduction in labour income. Could we consider these in the budget negotiations?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u62	President! The point of view of the question was quite correct. With the right of withdrawal, the government has already made proposals and strengthened them and will create conditions to stimulate investment. The budget as a whole — it can be discussed how much it will increase employment, how much it will finance through taxes, thereby also restricting the activities of citizens. But in Finland as a whole we believe that when we are a welfare society, in which the public sector has a huge role to play in caring for education, care for health care, care for good governance, this creates a climate of economic activity, including the private economy, that it has a positive impact on employment and economic development. This is
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u63	Mr President! Indeed, one of the most important tasks of this government is to create new jobs in Finland and help more and more people to enter the labour market. In this debate, it is important to remember that how people are doing is directly reflected in how our economy is doing. Far too many people today get tired of working, far too many people are on sick leave for mental health reasons. 60,000 people — it is a figure that the government is looking for in-house jobs, but it is also a figure of people who are currently on disability pension because of mental health problems. We would be spared great human grief and a great economic burden if we were able to help people to cope with life, to cope with working life. I would like to ask the government: could we put employment policy at the top of the agenda for employment and economic policy in terms of people's survival and mental health?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u64	Mr President! Thank you for this very important question. This is a very topical issue because, for the first time last year, mental health problems were the main reason why people had to retire prematurely from working life or otherwise. In the past, they have been musculo-skeletal disorders. We have a programme for the development of well-being at work in the government, and we are also stepping up our efforts to support those who are able to work part-time, because we think it is important that when a person tires out at work, wears out at work, mental health problems arise, so the solution is not necessarily that a person is completely excluded from working life, but that he is involved in working life, even in part. I think it is very important that when we monitor the various indicators in the government, well-being at work too, division at work is one of the indicators used to measure employment, for example, because we cannot afford to let any people out of working life in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u65	Mr President! The first condition for well-being is the creation of new, productive work in society. No labour market reform or social security reform will help if this condition is not met. The key is the foundation of the Finnish economy, i.e. the export industry, which is currently not doing very well. On the other hand, it is essential for employment in the service sector that ordinary people have purchasing power. I would ask: Do the exceptionally ambitious carbon neutrality objectives of the Government Programme improve these competitive conditions for industry? In what way does the government intend to promote a reduction in housing and mobility costs, leaving more money in the hands of ordinary people and increasing the incentive to accept work?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u66	Mr President! We share, Mrs Halla-aho, exactly the same picture of the situation that the basis for Finnish welfare is working and, therefore, employment: there are employers who offer work — not the public sector alone. You described Finland’s ambitious climate policy as perhaps a problem for Finnish working life, employment and, therefore, the national economy. As I understand it, Finnish industry has an exceptionally good understanding of its social responsibility and is very proactive and positive in wanting to change its own way of producing industry in a more environmentally sustainable way. But there is also another side to this, which I find inspiring and very interesting: Finland has exceptionally high-quality expertise in terms of good education and research and development, so that we could actually be a much bigger solution to global climate issues. And what does that mean? It means exporting our expertise to countries that are:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u67	I will admit two more questions to this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u68	Mr President! Employment is the cornerstone of this government, and I claim that much of the decisions taken by the government over the past six months relate specifically to job saving and employment. An example of this is the municipal economy, and I personally am pleased that the President of the Coalition Party has also woken up to it. When the government supported the finances of the municipalities last spring, Orpo said that this was an irresponsible financial link. But this was absolutely necessary, it was also necessary to secure the resources of the municipalities for employment, so that businesses and consumers could have confidence that the interest rate would be held. More flexible lay-offs, lower company charges, and, above all, now that the economy is being supported and revived — let us go ahead of employment. But in addition to this, specific measures are now needed to meet this goal of 30,000 calculated jobs. Looking at the incentive traps, and there, Mr President, I would like to raise one: day care fees.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u69	Mr President! How nice it is that as a government we can discuss this type of issue together in the next few days: where are the best ways to find the incentive for Finns to receive the job? And it is also the everyday life and economic livelihood of Finnish families with children that is particularly important to the government, which the questioner certainly also referred to. As far as the corona and the economy are concerned, I would venture to argue that good management of the corona is currently the best Finnish economic policy. It is no coincidence that the government has been very ambitious and determined to be in the process of strengthening the number of testing and the dismantling of queues, for example, so that Finnish working life does not stop, so that more and more people can stay healthy and, consequently, the wheels of the economy are spinning. As far as individual measures are concerned, a similar measure, the reduction in early childhood education fees, was taken during the last parliamentary term. As I recall, nearly 7,000 families ended up in the so-called zero-payment category, free early childhood education, and at least by that decision at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u70	Mr President! Deputy Prime Minister! In fact, instead of jewelry, beautiful words, there is a need for concreteness and deeds. I quote from yesterday’s Kaleva: ‘The government has not yet done a single effective employment operation,only cancelled. The budget line is a watershed where the direction must change. The employment package, drawn up by the Ministry of Finance, is the basis for employment measures, which is estimated to increase employment by around 60,000 persons. The package is an ambitious package, but rather a minimum rather than a maximum.” Ladies and gentlemen, this was not a convention meeting, written by former Prime Minister Juha Sipilä. Words of wisdom. 60,000 is a good start. It is not enough for you to talk about creating a view of 30,000 jobs. Deputy Prime Minister, do you sign the wise words of your predecessor?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u71	Mr President! We quite agree that Finland can emerge from this serious crisis, the picture of which is still unclear to the extent that we cannot tell the public or have a debate in this Chamber on when it will end. The common picture is that work is the best medicine. Moreover, the decision-based jobs, which the government is committed to, will provide them with a solid basis in the budget line for 30,000, and will then continue to pursue the career that you mentioned Mr Sipilä wrote, despite the fact that I am still repeating my recent message: In my view, right now, in these weeks and in the coming months, the most important economic policy is to create a sufficiently stable environment for businesses, yes, to take decisions on the basis of decision-based jobs and even more so to prevent the second wave of corona, which is the worst poison in our economy, which is what is and may be. Therefore testing, therefore responsible joint behaviour, therefore restriction measures,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u72	Next question, Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u73	Mr President! Today is International Suicide Prevention Day. Its aim is to keep out the message that suicide can be prevented. A lot of people are still living in mental darkness and despair today. One in four Finns feels that corona has had a negative impact on their own mental health, and nearly 90,000 Finns have had suicidal thoughts during the spring, during the summer. Three out of four suicide victims are men who often find it harder for women to seek help. Self - destructive thoughts are sought and helped in varying degrees. Mental health services of all ages should promote low-threshold, preventive and early-support services. The patient should be admitted to short-term psychotherapy or other psychosocial support as soon as possible. I would like to ask the minister in question: is the government going to invest in low-threshold mental health services in primary health care? How and when?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u74	Mr President! Since Mr Kiuru is not here, I can answer this question in general terms because the subject is very touching and important. I believe that this Chamber and all of them want to send a message to the Finns about the hope for the future and take part in the lives of all those who have been confronted by this kind of act of neighbor. I am very pleased to be able to tell Parliament that this government's programme is a heavy record, and it has also been supported in euro, a national mental health strategy that extends to better mental health, i.e. to better Finland, and to better mental health services up to 2030. But there is also an action programme for the prevention and prevention of suicides in particular, which is intended to target those areas where we see a particular risk and an increase in statistics, because the situation described by the representative now, unfortunately, with the interest rate, is going in a worse direction. That appropriation is close to EUR 5 million, and I think it is a legitimate target at the same time as I remind you of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u75	Thank you. — Since the Minister of Responsibility is absent, we shall move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u76	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u77	Mr President! The event industry is dead when the government closed down the events and banned them on 13 March. The turnover in the event industry is 2.3 billion a year, now 80 per cent of it has disappeared. The event industry employs 9000 people and 136,000 people at events. The current support measures do not allow the event industry to survive. I ask you, Minister Lintilä: are you going to do something about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u78	Mr President! A very big problem, a very big question. Congressman Harkimo downplayed it a little bit. I would recall that the event industry, which visited us at several demonstrations on Wednesday, announced that they have 20,000 employees all year round, i.e. a very large employer. Where, then, has financial help been found at the moment? Through Business Finland we have funded, through ely centres and also through cost support. It was very nice that these organizers were united, that is, there were many small ones in the past, now they are together. I've invited them to the Ministry to have a conversation. They have made their own presentation of what would be the best way to support them. The problem is, in a certain way, that they come from very different sectors, and that is probably one of the things we need to think about here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u79	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u80	Mr President! The field of events is in huge difficulties. So is the Finnish tourism industry. The Finnish tourism industry supported our economy and created a belief in the future, in fact, throughout the period after the financial crisis, when the rest of the economy was in a rather difficult position. Today, however, the tourism sector needs firm decisions from the government on how to secure the upcoming winter season. It is a question of billions of turnover just for Christmas and the coming winter, and I would now like to ask the Prime Minister how the government will work. The Committee on Tourism of the Chamber of Commerce of Lapland has estimated that if decisions are delayed next week, it is already far too late. In other words, this delay by the government in resolving this issue threatens thousands and thousands of jobs. What does the PM's deputy say?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u81	Mr President! It is just as Mr Autto describes that, in addition to having had a crisis in health care and thus in the protection of life, this is also an increasingly serious economic crisis. We share a common concern about tourism in Lapland. Both yesterday and today, and even today, the country's government has negotiated on the subject, on these very issues, how we could find a solution in a responsible way that will enable tourism in Lapland within the framework that people in general travel during this global pandemic. How can we at the same time ensure the health of all citizens in the best possible way and then make certain facilitations for border crossings and thus for tourism in Lapland? Representative Autto and the people of Lapland, which is touched by this as employment, jobs and a whole form of life and livelihood: the government of the country has taken your message seriously and is still negotiating today that the issue will be completed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u82	One more question in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u83	Mr President! Indeed, the need for performing artists and event organizers extends far beyond what we consumers can see. Most of that work is done before and after events. I myself have worked as a mass builder, for example, building and grounding festivals, and at best there is almost as much trouble as there is at events. Many of these companies are very small and the work is seasonal and they are full of very vulnerable freelancers and business name entrepreneurs. Some of the workers and entrepreneurs in the event sector have already been helped by various government support packages, but too many have been left out, and this despite the fact that the organisation of events has been blocked both directly and indirectly by the decisions of this Chamber. I have heard from various good measures throughout Europe that have made it possible to organise and support events safely, and I ask whether we have any information on whether we have any compilations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u84	Mr President! The questioner is quite right that the various restrictions are the central motive for these events. The way in which we will be able to dismantle the restrictions will also give more opportunities to these operators. But as everyone knows, this is in a certain way the balance between health and these opportunities. Now, from the Minister for Education of the Saarikko side, nine million are still coming in during September, which means that there will also be such a small stimulant. I have to say that this situation is not solved with any money. This situation will only be resolved if we separate from this virus, because that threshold for people to leave is still high. But yes, we must also try to support them through this crisis, and we will do everything we can to do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u85	The 3rd issue of the daily order is the Government’s statement on the affiliations of the members of the Government. According to the Rules of Procedure, Parliament does not take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u86	Mr President! This is a point of order in relation to this Chamber. — Do not misunderstand me, I have no objection to having a T-shirt in this Chamber, but I would like to ask that, once I have understood earlier that it is not allowed to enter the Chamber with demonstrational texts, is this principle in force? I noticed that Mr Pitko was wearing a t-shirt with a ‘thefutureisfeminist’. [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne :I am sure,representativeTykkynen,that this was not the case and that you can provide the Council of Presidents with ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u89	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u90	Mr President! This Government proposal proposes to amend the procedure whereby the central government shares of unemployment benefit and housing allowance are paid to the Social Insurance Institution. In addition, in the case of unemployment benefits, the preparation of the Social Insurance Institution for delays and fluctuations in the financing of labour market support from municipalities will be developed. With regard to the central government shares of unemployment benefits paid to the Social Insurance Institution, it is proposed to move from the procedure for fixing the advance to the notification procedure. The Government's proposal suggests that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health no longer strengthens the State's contributions to be paid for a whole year on the basis of the assessment provided by the Social Insurance Institution. Instead, the Social Insurance Institution would notify the Ministry of the amount of advance required for each of the following months. The Ministry would make advance payments to the Social Insurance Institution on a monthly basis. The proposal also proposes to provide for a minimum amount of funding for labour market support and to amend the regulation on liquidity provision. The minimum amount of funding for labour market support would cover the financing gap due to late payments by municipalities in the case of labour market support. The purpose of the liquidity provision would be to ensure the adequacy of the financing of basic daily allowance and labour market support in the event of unexpected expenditure increases. It is also proposed to amend the deadline laid down in the Act on general housing allowance for the notification of the Social Insurance Institution of the number of housing allowances for the following month. It is proposed to advance the notification period by 10 days before the payment date instead of five days. The presentation has no impact on the status of beneficiaries. Indirectly, the status of beneficiaries will improve in the sense that the operating conditions of the Social Insurance Institution would improve as a result of the proposal. The amendment is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u91	Mr President! Good Minister and good colleagues! Thank you, Mr Pekonen, for presenting this government's proposal. This will bring flexibility and ease administrative work. So, with unemployment security legislation open, I would like to point out that, in the course of this corona crisis, the situation of unemployment security has increased to a wider extent in the debate. This proposal is quite technical and, as Mr Pekonen has pointed out, this does not have very great significance, but now, during the corona crisis, the concerns about unemployment security have been raised for many people. In fact, the need to rely on unemployment benefit has increased more among those not covered by the unemployment fund. More generally, they are young workers, often low-skilled workers, and often workers on shorter working careers. During this corona crisis, when the need has been greatest, there has in fact been no proper protection of income for the most vulnerable workers. Now that this unemployment security legislation is open, I myself would have expected that improvements in the income security of our workers could have been brought about. At the meeting, we have set ourselves the goal of what is known as universal unemployment benefit, which is independent of the membership of the fund, income security, so-called earnings-related unemployment benefit for all employees. The earnings-related daily allowance is a separate unemployment benefit, which is currently paid only to members of the unemployment fund. It should have been corrected now during the corona crisis. It is voluntary unemployment insurance for members of unemployment funds, which is paid on top of Kela’s basic daily allowance. Thus, an annual membership fee must be paid for membership of the unemployment fund, but membership of the unemployment fund may also be a member of the trade union. However, the contributions from unemployment funds, ladies and gentlemen, cover only 5.5% of the earnings-related daily allowance. The remainder will be covered by all employers and employees, statutory unemployment insurance contributions collected from employees and the state treasury. In other words, all employed employees pay unemployment insurance contributions, but only part of them receive their contribution in the form of earnings-related contributions when they become unemployed, and thus only about 5% of their earnings-related expenses are covered by contributions from unemployment funds — the remainder is paid by the State through taxes and unemployment insurance contributions. We believe that, at the latest, at the time of the corona crisis, this should be corrected, because even non-cassage workers will have to pay statutory unemployment insurance contributions and yet will not have to be unemployed when they become entitled to earnings-related unemployment benefit, but will have to be satisfied with basic security. At the moment, Minister, we have tens of thousands of laid-off waiters, a wide range of service workers, tourism and restaurant workers, event workers who receive EUR 700 per month of basic daily allowance, if that is not the case, even though a large proportion of them have paid the same 90% of the fees as those that belong to the cashier and can therefore easily be doubled through that earnings-related system. So we have tens of thousands of people who miss a ton every month because we are forced to hold a cash register on a earnings-related basis. So the system is not fair, and now that the technical correction of this kind to the Unemployment Protection Act is now under discussion, I hope that the committee will also consider that we can correct this injustice from our unemployment benefit and give that earnings-related to all hard-working Finnish workers who have paid more than 90% of their own contributions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u92	President! I believe that any proposal aimed at reducing administrative work and bureaucracy in Kela is in principle already worthy of support. Payment traffic between the state and Kela currently causes a huge amount of human work in Kela and is clearly rigid in its procedures. Sufficient studies have been carried out and these concrete legislative reforms are now needed, as well as sufficient and broad support for the changes in Kela's own operations. Even if digitalisation could be increased, the information systems of the various actors and automated account information could be harmonised, we would be well advanced. But one step at a time towards cutting red tape. This amendment of the law is already a step forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u93	Mr President! Indeed, thank you, Minister Pekonen, for taking forward such a legislative project. This is an important technology that can reduce red tape and thus make it more rational. As part of social security, the general housing allowance and the forms of housing allowance have increased by a very great leap in recent years, and there is probably no special government base in which this growth has just taken place — all of us have been responsible — but expenditure has increased to a huge amount of over EUR 2 billion a year, and in fact, if I am not quite wrong about other figures — the Minister can correct me if I remember wrong — more than 15 per cent of households already receive housing support, and I am thinking that now, however, that our economy is really hard and that the leeway for the state finances is being challenged, we should consider in the coming years how the money spent by the state will be most effective in increasing the well-being of Finns. How can the Minister of Social Affairs and Health see whether, for example, this huge digital leap and the increase in telework that has taken place will mean that, in the future, for example, there will not be as much pressure on the increase in these housing subsidies as there has been in recent years? After all, this bill deals with the technique of how the money moves.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u94	Mr President! Mr Heinonen touched on a matter which has been on the agenda a great deal in recent weeks, but if it is all right with you, Mr President, I will stick to this government proposal. The activities of the Social Insurance Institution must be as smooth as possible in all situations. Reducing red tape will make action more flexible and reduce administrative costs. The interest-rate crisis and the subsequent wave of lay-off have shown that unexpected situations can and must be prepared, they have existed before. This proposal by the Board of Directors improves Kela's liquidity and ensures that benefits can also be paid as planned in a rapidly changing operating environment. The proposal is very important. In the spring, the vulnerability of the system became apparent and caused an excessive delay in paying benefits. Problems have also arisen in the past, for example in the case of congestion caused by the turn of the year, when payment powers were insufficient. The transition from the procedure for fixing unemployment benefits to the notification procedure, as well as the other measures mentioned in the proposal, will help to prevent these defaults, in particular late payment situations, which have a critical impact on the livelihoods of many beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u95	Mr President! I think I misjudged that link between trade unions and unemployment funds. Of course, they have some kind of connection, but of course they are not the same. Membership of a trade union may include membership of an unemployment fund, but of course the unemployment fund may belong without membership of a trade union. In that sense too, I hope that this will be quite easy to correct. It would have been interesting to hear how, for example, the Centre Party feels that we could improve unemployment security for all Finnish workers even at the worst time. As I said earlier, at the time of the corona crisis, a particularly large number of young people, who are at a lower level of education, have been unemployed in the service sector and in the shorter working life, and there are quite a few who have not been part of the unemployment fund but have actually had to pay that 90% of these costs. This means that only 5.5 per cent of earnings-related daily allowance is covered by contributions from unemployment funds. In our opinion, earnings-related daily allowance belongs to all Finnish employees. It would be a question of fairness if these people, who have paid for it in large part, could also enjoy a slightly higher level of unemployment benefit at the worst.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u96	Representative Niemi, and then Minister Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u97	Mr President! A brief clarification of Mr Heinonen's position, of course, when I myself am the chairman of one such trade union. So you can be a member of a trade union and also a member of an unemployment fund, you can only be a member of an unemployment fund, but you can also be a member of a trade union without being part of an unemployment fund. These are the options.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u98	Mr President! This proposal, which I have presented here, is a very technical change which is indeed aimed at making the payment of state subsidies for unemployment benefit and housing allowance more flexible and smooth for the Social Insurance Institution, but of course it is also a pleasure to discuss other matters more widely in this Chamber. In his speech, Mr Heinonen raised this issue of general income security. It is true that the corona crisis has also hit hard on working life and the employment situation of people. During this crisis, the government has already made it easier for the unemployed to get into earnings-related employment by temporarily shortening the working conditions, and this has received a lot of positive feedback. A follow-up report on general income protection, to which Mr Heinonen referred in his own speech, will be ready next year, and the conclusions will then be drawn on the basis of this report. Mr Koponen raised this issue of cutting red tape. The need and wish is indeed common to us that we should be able to reduce red tape. To that end, we are in the process of an overall reform of social security, which is ultimately aimed at reducing red tape. And I hope that this parliamentary social security group will also take a stand and address it here in its Social Security Committee. This housing allowance should also be considered in connection with housing policy. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u99	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u100	Mr President! For more than ten years, an information system has been built in the EU, allowing Member State authorities to transmit information electronically on social security issues related to persons moving between countries. These include information on work, entrepreneurship, housing, pensions and medical care. The construction of a common EESSI has been a huge project, and this year, in all Member States, the system will be introduced, including here in Finland. Last year the Finnish Centre for Pensions issued 13000 A1 certificates to workers posted from Finland to EU countries and to workers in two or more countries subject to Finnish social security legislation. In some rare situations, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is competent to agree with another state that Finnish legislation is applicable. However, the Ministry does not have an e-service, and it is not worth building one for the processing of a few ten applications per year. The Government's proposal proposes that these rare items dealt with by the Ministry be transferred to the Finnish Centre for Pensions in order to secure digital access to services for everyone in accordance with national laws. The Finnish Centre for Pensions handles most of the issues anyway, and it has digital processes at its disposal. At the same time, it is proposed to clarify the division of tasks between national social security institutions so that all institutions themselves manage the levying of retroactive benefits from other countries in situations where benefits have been paid from Finland and a pension is granted from another country. To date, the Finnish Centre for Pensions has conducted information exchange abroad on behalf of other institutions. When electronic exchanges of information become available, recovery will be more effective directly between the social security institutions concerned. For the electronic exchange of information between EU countries, a contact point has been built in Kela, which is an information system used by all Finnish social security institutions to exchange information with social security institutions in other EU countries. Kela produces an identity service for persons for information arriving in Finland to the contact point. Kela is intended to act as a controller for authentication data in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation. For all information relating to benefits, social security institutions act as controllers for their own data. This proposal also takes into account the fact that all national social security institutions contribute to the costs of the electronic exchange of information and the maintenance of the contact point. The allocation of costs shall be decided by the inter-institutional cooperation group.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u101	Mr President! In order for the European Union to be able to implement its fundamental idea that the labour force, goods, services, capital can move as freely as possible and that the euro area can become the most functional currency area possible, of course, such procedures are needed to facilitate the movement of labour between countries. For Finland, however, the most concrete thing is that at the time tens of thousands of Finns went to work in Sweden and have worked there and are receiving pensions both from Sweden and possibly from Finland. Now that they have retired, they can sometimes be resident in another country, sometimes in another country, perhaps slightly depending on where there is offspring and, for example, the need for childcare, and many pensioners have said that they are undeniably faced with fiscal challenges as to how this tax package will then be formed. As Minister Pekonen, a well-known minister, has certainly had this interaction with Sweden too, I would ask that, when we have this broader European framework of reference, which will provide these new tools, how the discussions between the Nordic countries have progressed in recent years to ensure that the treatment of Nordic citizens is as fair as possible. It has been important work, on the one hand and on the other, of course, what has been done as a foreign worker in the neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u102	Mr President! This representative Car question was not actually part of this government proposal. I would like to say that the discussions are taking place and I am sure that we will be able to come back to this on another occasion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u103	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-10-ps-110.u104	Mr President! This Government proposal harmonises the payment procedure between the State and Kela in respect of the central government transfers of benefits from the Social Fund. The size and revision of the advance on the State contribution will be harmonised for the various benefits. The implementation of these proposals will require not only legislative amendments but also amendments to the regulations, which will also clarify regulation. The proposal is part of the longer-term work to make payment procedures more efficient and simpler. The proposal does not propose any changes to the benefits or to the status of the beneficiary. The laws are intended to enter into force from the beginning of 2021.
