ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u2	Mr President! After all, this report at first reading was well-spoken, but I did not have the opportunity to be involved at the time, so a few words about this: First of all, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy can be commended for the important amendments made by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in its report to this initial government proposal. In particular, it was important to take into account these different types of nutritionists, i.e. such personnel service companies, catering services, and then these seasonal restaurants, which in this original government proposal would not have been taken into account. In addition, changes were made in this calculation of the aid, which took greater account, for example, of the operators that started after April 2019 than also of companies that timed that sales to the summer season. All in all, it can be said that the message that came from that field of nutrition was that very rarely would it have been a fair comparison between January and February. In that sense, these important changes were certainly in order. Here, too, there are statements of opposition, and I can see that these statements are largely based on the desire to increase the sale of alcohol, that is to say, to increase the sale of alcohol, and then on the other hand, on the other hand, on the need to reduce VAT rates in alcohol sales. It must be said from these statements that the Christian Democrats cannot agree with these proposals. This corona time, as we know, has also been a very difficult time for many families, and there have indeed been those situations in which the alcohol problem has unfortunately worsened, and there are also the consequences that have been seen in the family life there. In that sense, it is well known in this Chamber that the price and availability are those who then look at this alcohol from a public health point of view. In that sense, these statements would then have had an impact on both of these matters. On the other hand, there is one proposal for a statement which talks about the need to take further account of the nutritional movements which are going to be excluded from these subsidies. I would be very interested to hear what kind of attempts there are still to be. If there are, then of course such aid is also justified. I therefore hope that perhaps in these speeches a member of the party who makes a statement will open this up. Mr President! Thank you in particular to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u3	Mr President! I can agree with Mrs Essayah's thanks to the Committee on Economic Affairs for the important improvements it has made to this support for restaurants, although we still believe that the outcome is not sufficient. Yesterday’s Finnair discussion revealed that suddenly all the positions that parties and their representatives in the media advertise will not lead to a vote like that when they come to this hall. Well, evening magazine already wrote that that is not very appropriate, even for parties. Now I was thinking of talking about this right to sell out wine, which would be such a small one, but not the kind of support that taxpayers pay for these restaurants. And this is such an easy speech that I can base it entirely on what others wrote in that social media. Let's start with the tip. President of the Greens, Minister Ohio is in favour of this sale of wines. In fact, in the late days of April, he wrote: ‘The sales aid component :@green party meeting took place on the basis of a proposal for a clearance of sales for wines That's a convention decision. Well, then there's one of these greens.fi sites, and there's a very beautiful picture of the vice-presidents of the Greens, Fatim Diarra and this Black Rock, whose first name I don't remember now, and here's the great title "Rvintola Area Support—the exit of alcoholic beverages and distance sales to save jobs". [Right: Good! ] This has been distributed correctly on Facebook 738 times. Expectations have been created,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u4	Mr President! The situation of restaurants, like many entrepreneurs, is challenging in these times. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, this package of aid was modified in such a way that it was estimated that several tens of millions of euros were added. [Right :Eric! ] In the future, it is still important that all these new means of ensuring safe access to restaurants continue. For example, in order to make better use of terraces and outdoor spaces in this summer season, several cities have taken the opportunity to open up more such public spaces to terraces, for example in the centre of Helsinki. In Helsinki we have also had such a parklet experiment last summer, where this parking space can also be used for the terrace. We should now introduce more of these and facilitate the position of restaurants in that respect too. It is, of course, important to allow and promote distance selling and pick-up sales. As has been said here, the Greens have been in favour and are in favour of ideas in which distance sales of alcohol and small breweries can also be increased during the corona period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u5	Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has done a good job and good additions and changes have been made to the proposal. Of course, the amount of compensation for restaurants has still been too small, and this is something that the coalition has drawn attention to. Restaurants are in a special position when their right to pursue a business is restricted. I would like to make one point here, which the committee has also mentioned, about staff restaurants. After all, they have now been excluded from the support package because customers have been allowed to continue eating there, but this, of course, puts in a very different position different restaurants depending on the type of workers they have been eating there. Understandably, for example, there are frequent visits to hospitals, but student restaurants, for example, are in a very difficult situation when the doors of universities and schools are closed but are classified as such human nutrition conditions. For example, the turnover of UniCafe, a student restaurant, has collapsed by 97 per cent. So the universities closed their doors in March under an infectious break. At the same time, UniCafe restaurants were closed and only take-away sales have been made. Hopefully, in the future, corporate subsidies will take account of the status of these human resources restaurants and will also take into account the fact that they are a certain kind of interlocutor group, and some ways could be found to compensate them as well. Student restaurants are a very important condition for the well-being of students: we can study and get a full nutrition lunch once a day.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u6	Mr President! We therefore objected to the report because, in our view, the reasonable cost compensation was still too low. Similarly, support for employment is still not optimally targeted in the proposal. Nor does this proposal contain the things we wanted, such as the sale of alcohol, which means that restaurants could also temporarily sell out a bottle of wine, for example. This is what many representatives of the government have also spoken about, but apparently they have only spoken. There is also a temporary reduction in VAT for restaurants, and this was, in fact, the major reform of the sector. That would be the cold start engine for the industry. In fact, a great many representatives of the government parties have made their way out of this in the past and in years, so it is worth considering this too. In fact, there is good reason for this, namely that the taxation of alcohol in Finland today is one of the most stringent in the EU. The most important alcoholic beverage in restaurants, beer, is taxed most quickly in the EU countries. In the taxation of heavy alcohol and wine, Finland's level is the second highest in the EU. In Finland, the value added of liquor is the fourth highest in the EU countries. In fact, according to a report by the Natural Resources Agency, lowering VAT on alcohol from 24% to 14% would increase demand not only for alcoholic beverages but also for food and other services. The impact on the national economy, with its multiplier effect, would amount to almost EUR 300 million, with the tax shifting to prices as a whole. The value-added effects for the various industries would amount to around EUR 140 million. In addition, the calculated workplace impact would be around 2,400 people. According to the study, this would mean an increase of EUR 127 million in the demand for restaurant services. In addition, demand for other services in the economy would increase. Consumption of domestic products and services would increase by around EUR 172 million. Mr President! This would be the start-up action the industry would need. That is why I ask the government to give this serious consideration. These measures, which the government has taken so far in this area, will result in the loss of tens of thousands of jobs in this sector. It would therefore be important for the government to do even more for the restaurant industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u7	Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy should begin by thanking the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for the very necessary suggestions for this package of aid. It is important that the aid package should now be mobilised as quickly as possible to help restaurant entrepreneurs, even though it has not been a simple or easy package. In my view, it is a good idea to proceed precisely in such a way as to move forward at a time. We have now also raised the issue of the abolition of standards. It will certainly be the next package to which attention should indeed be paid, but if and when it might have delayed this aid package, I think it is a good thing that we now have this aid package and then we will look at the dismantling of the standards in the next phase. This will provide assistance to restaurant companies as soon as possible. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude] There is, of course, a lot of competition in this sector, a lot of low-income entrepreneurs and, above all, low-income workers. It is therefore a whole which is definitely affected not only by subsidies for restaurant companies, but also, of course, by other subsidies for businesses, but also by subsidies for those who are laid off and otherwise affect people's livelihoods. That is why it is important to keep this whole thing in mind whenever we consider what the future of the restaurant sector looks like. The issue of the reduction of VAT has been raised here. Economists have now pointed out in this crisis that it would be even more important for people to have enough purchasing power and, above all, to regain confidence. It has now been observed that even in countries where restaurants are not closed, the number of restaurant visitors has unfortunately decreased, partly due to sound caution, but partly due to fear. It is therefore important, and it is vitally important that people's credit for visiting a restaurant should be restored as quickly as possible. The best way to do this is to move forward in the process of dismantling the restrictions step by step, so that surely, when we take a step forward, we can know as well as possible that the epidemic will not collapse, so that we will not have to take the steps backwards, as some countries have had to do, once again shut down the restaurants, re-restricting the activity. It would be extremely negative both for people's confidence and for the predictability of the activities of restaurants and, consequently, for the economy of our country as a whole. That is why it is important to really keep that overall picture and temper in mind. Mr Laiho then drew attention to the situation at student restaurants. This is really something that needs to be taken into account in the future. After all, student restaurants have not been in exactly the same position as staff restaurants where the job may have remained open, as universities are closed under the Act on communicable diseases. For example, the University of Tampere has closed the front doors to ensure that the premises are not accessible. You can't visit the restaurant when the front door is locked and the staff can only get in with a separate permission from the foreperson to pick up the goods or otherwise quickly to visit. Quite a large proportion of student restaurants have sold lunches or coffee to others, they have also been open to outsiders. So even in that sense, they have not been the same kind of places as many staff restaurants. Sales have disappeared, and it is indeed now necessary to correct the situation in student restaurants, which have in many ways been the ones that have been missed: not only as intermediaries with staff restaurants, but rather as intermediaries between genuinely open, open restaurants and then staff restaurants. Many are in an even more difficult situation than some places when the doors of colleges are really closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u8	Mr President! This proposal responds to the concern that came from this Parliament that we have to compensate and compensate the restaurant industry for these losses. However, it is important to bear in mind that the loss and distress of the restaurant sector is not, as has already been pointed out here, solely due to these restrictions, which are not quite self-evident in setting the amount of compensation, because they are also largely due to the fact that people's behaviour changes quite understandably in such a situation of infectious disease. I think that this proposal itself has a good balance. There have been improvements to the original, and for that I thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the good speeches that have been made here in the Chamber. In my view, it is important, among other things, that such legislation should be made from the point of view that it is not, as it were, starting to interfere with the market structure, but that we should try to find a straightforward way of supporting this sector in its plight and, for example, that temporary agency work should also be taken into account in this respect, and then another important point is that companies want to develop and innovate, at least not to strain it, i.e. BF and Ely subsidies, for example, do not automatically eliminate this support. But as has been brought here, among other things, the representative of Finland brought out, so this kind of model is not perfect. Among other things, we have student restaurants with a clear intermission category. There is no doubt that, because of the interest rate, we have a wide range of individual companies and individual sectors in society, which have been de facto driven down either by this infection or by some restriction as a reflection effect, and this actually highlights two things: it emphasises that we need additional measures to provide smartly thought-out general cost support to ensure that these companies are able to operate and that they are not forced into bankruptcy in vain and, above all, that no amount of aid is going to fix this issue. The most important thing for the economy as a whole is the effective management of the epidemic and the fact that it is being brought under control, which means that it must be borne in mind in the light of all these things, that instead of rushing to relax restrictions, for example, it is absolutely essential that the policy is such that as soon as possible people can trust that the risk of infection is really low and that it is reflected in behaviour. So that is the priority here, and it must be borne in mind when we are talking about this subject in general. I welcome the fact that Mr Zyskowicz has found the green as a source of fine information and other good points. I myself have already expressed my own opinion on this matter. Of course, it is worth noting: Mr Zyskowicz has a career here, perhaps a little more than my own, and the coalition is the party in recent history that has the highest level of government responsibility, and all those matters, initiatives and positions in the Assembly of the Coalition Party have still not passed, i.e.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u9	Mr President! True Finns consider it important that companies be supported. It is now the case that companies are also being supported here. Companies are in this mess, they seem to be in a lot of trouble, and especially this restaurant business is the worst in this mess. We see some of these things that could be changed here. We see that subsidies must be balanced. The subsidies must be fair. Then we have also thought about the possibility of reducing VAT rates on the restaurant side, which would actually be significant. So I made objections to this committee's report. In other words,proposition 1: ‘The Commission calls for the government to start preparing, without delay, a programme of support fornutritional movements outside compensation, or And the motion for a statement of objection 2: ‘The Commission requires the Government to clarify the introduction of a lower value added tax
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u10	Mr. Speaker! Opening restaurants is really good. However, it is great that we are at this point — it also brings to the restaurant industry, which has been one of the key sufferers of the corona virus, faith and hope for the future. As has been said here, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs have also done an excellent job, and it is now essential that we get these support packages in motion as soon as possible, to which I think the committees have also made excellent turns, made them better and more agile. So the oven is becoming a good form of support. Furthermore, when we turn the restaurant package into a regionalist and localist package, then we will get through this. President! This proposal for a declaration on the withdrawal of the Convention is quite understandable in itself. However, I myself would now like to call for a march order: first, let us do these pre-prepared support packages in an elegant and quick way forward, and then, if necessary, let us return to this statement at a later date. President! As I understand that both the current system of authorisations for alcoholic beverages and the amendment of the sales regulations mean the amendment of the technical provisions of an industrially manufactured product or agricultural product within the meaning of the EU directive, this will take time. The restaurant sector does not now have the opportunity to wait for bureaucracy; action is needed immediately and immediately. Let's go one thing at a time, but let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u11	Mr President! Restaurants have suffered the most from the corona crisis, and it is extremely important that we support restaurants over this difficult period of time. The corrections made by Parliament together to the government proposal were in order and improved this whole in the right direction. The most important thing, however, is to allow restaurants to return to normal business in a safe and controlled manner, so that we do not have to take steps back. Many restaurants are waiting and preparing for the beginning of June at a high pace, and the responsible grip that entrepreneurs and businesses have on the good work that is being done in the restaurant industry. However, this situation with coronavirus is different across the country. I think it would be more than justifiable for us to move on to provincial restrictions. The disease situation is different across Finland, which is why the medicine should also be different. We could open up restrictions where there is a possibility and blackmail or maintain them where there is a need. I dare say that the risk of disease at Keuruun Satumaa café is significantly low compared to large, large nightclubs. Of course, there is still a need to adhere to the washing of hands, hygiene and safety intervals, i.e. the common rules that have been created for the safety of all Finns. This message must be highlighted, and that message should not be forgotten. If regional considerations are reached, it is clear that the situation should be monitored with appropriate timescales, adequate methods and clear proposals for measures. Rapid and flexible action based on locality should be the starting point for further action. Securing the functioning of restaurants should primarily be based on the return to normal living conditions. Of course, in this exceptional situation, compensation for the restriction of activities and support for reemployment are extremely important and worthwhile for restaurants, for which I thank Parliament as a whole. This crisis has at least taught us that creativity and the will of entrepreneurship can be found in us Finns. Mr President! It would be important for us to increase our freedom of business and to abandon unnecessary rules, prohibitions and regulations — that is, to abandon unnecessary rules, prohibitions and regulations. I believe in responsible Finns, and so should all of us in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u12	Mr President! The previous speech was so good that it could probably already be interpreted as supporting this proposal for a convention. Firstly, I also agree with Mr Könttä that this regional impact should definitely be taken into account. In fact, I would see it even as these new cases of infection outside Uusimaa are random, so the arrangement would also work if there were stricter restrictions in Uusimaa and there were clearly faster developments elsewhere. I believe that would be a sensible way of working in the restaurant sector as well. As far as the restaurant sector and these subsidies are concerned, it is true that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has done an excellent job and deserves to be commended under the leadership of its chairman, but the final point is, of course, to be able to open up the business in a profitable way — that is the key issue. Of course, this level of support should have been a little higher, but the key is because it is profitable to open up, and then the restrictions imposed on it are absolutely essential. I understand that nightclubs are not going to open, but there should be flexibility in food restaurants, particularly in terms of regionality. As far as this proposal for a statement by the Assembly on this temporary possibility of selling out non-alcoholic beverages is concerned, I cannot believe that this would have any significant impact on the abuse of alcohol as such. The cases where problems arise are mainly with imported alcohol or with home-bought spirits, which then become overused. So if you buy a bottle of wine from that restaurant, it is hard to imagine that it would cause major alcohol damage, but instead the company that sells that bottle of wine and can sell it may have a big impact — the same goes for this larger issue, of course, the reduction in VAT for restaurants. I would like to emphasise that it would also be worthwhile for the government to look at this from the point of view that we are talking about something that really has a huge employment significance. The restaurant and accommodation sector employs 90000 people in Finland directly and 36,000 indirectly. It will have quite an impact on employment, the way in which this restaurant business starts and the limitations it has. We are talking about thousands but tens of thousands of jobs easily if we fail to do the right thing in this strategy. So this is really worth taking seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u13	Mr President! Indeed, I agree with the thanks given by the previous speakers to the work done in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the changes made in relation to the original government proposal. The restaurant industry, the numerous businesses, family businesses and even a little bigger companies, are in serious difficulties at the moment when we are in this crisis and these restrictive measures have been taken for restaurant activities. But I have to say, Mr President, that when I have listened here, especially to the speeches made by the members of the Assembly, I have had to make a real fuss about what is being discussed. Are we actually discussing the difficult situation of the restaurant industry here, or are we talking about alcohol policy here? In my opinion, this proposal is about rescuing businesses, [True : Name! ] the rescue of restaurant companies, not petty alcohol policy debate and action in the midst of a national emergency and an epidemic crisis. I believe that this style of alcohol policy is being pursued in such a populist way, under the pretext of such a serious epidemic, is irresponsible. You know, people drink in families.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u14	Mr President! I support the two proposals made by Mr Reijos. They are both important locations in the gaps that will inevitably be left — there are opportunities for intervention by different companies and sectors which have not been fully taken into account in the preparation of this undoubtedly urgent proposal. I also think that the alcohol outsourcing rights in other statements for small breweries and restaurants are good ideas. I also support the ideas put forward in the debate on reducing the tax burden on alcohol. The fact is that when something is overtaxed, then tax revenue will not improve and dynamic effects will not be obtained. I personally am surprised at the internal pecking of the government parties on this issue: let us come here to the big hall to support things that cannot be done by themselves, built into the report — but they will be supported by the general public — and then another representative of the same party will then bark up these statements. It's a bit of a special activity, isn't it? So why don't you, as a government, think about what you're doing, and then come down here and do it? Now, if these changes were to be tested under exceptional circumstances, I believe that it would gain valuable experience with these effects and could also consider the possibilities of transposing these desirable issues into normal time legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u15	Mr President! We are here to deal with subsidies for the restaurant sector, and that is because the sector has been closed for two months by Parliament and now we are wondering how we can help the restaurants to start again. Well, we now have a support package of 171 million at hand, and that is about half of what the sector itself would have wanted, or 350 million. When, among other things, Mr Honkonen is thinking about why the assembly is thinking about alcohol policy, VAT, the sale of wines and such things, we must, of course, think about the ways in which we can help these restaurants to start over. Of course, just as other representatives here have said, consumer confidence, the sense of customer confidence that it is safe to return to restaurants, is the most important thing to get the operation back on its feet. But the sad fact is that in Finland alcohol taxation is very high. In fact, it is more stringent than the EU average. The food service and soft drinks at restaurants are subject to VAT of 14% and VAT of 24%. In addition, excise duties affect prices, and in fact excise duties on alcoholic beverages are among the highest in the EU and excise duties on beer are the highest in Finland. That is why, Mr Honkonen and others who criticise our positions on alcohol policy, we are raising these tax issues. We want to help the restaurants so they can get on their feet. That is why, Mr President, I have taken a legislative initiative on a temporary reduction in VAT for restaurants from 24% to 14%, which can be signed until tomorrow evening. In addition, Mr President, I support the proposal made by Mr Vartiainen, which provides for the temporary possibility for restaurants to sell out and to sell non-potent alcoholic beverages at a distance. And one more thing, Mr President. Let me remind you that the restaurant industry was in great difficulty even before the corona crisis. According to the industry's own estimate, only EUR 2 profit for a 100-euro meal. You can imagine what kind of buffer restaurants have been able to obtain at this level of income. We really must help them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u16	Mr Vartiainen's proposals have not yet been made, so they must then be supported afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u17	Ärade Herr Talman! Det är glädjande att riksdagen och ekonoutskottet så snabbt har fåt det här stödpaket för restaurant, kaféer och barer färdigt och att det också inkluderar åländska företagare. Restaurangföretagare har haft det verkligt svårt i likhet med många andra verksamheter, och det har varietyt viktigt att ändra jämförelsemånaderna från januari—februari till april—maj för att utdelning av tödet ska motsvara verkligheten och också kännas rätvist. Det austödpaket behövs på grund av den exceptionella åtgärden att stänga en näring genom lag, och det var också många i salen som efferlyste den ox nitrogens stöd under remissdebatten. Stödpaket på ungefär 170 million euro innehåller både personalstöd och stöd för fasta kostnader. Trots detta exceptionella stöd är det endast ett första hjälpen-kit för många företag och räcker inte till för att ticka alla förlorade inkomster. Därför är det också glädjande att se att många hyresvärdar hjälpt till med att änka hyror för att på såvis också säkerstalla att det finns en verksamhet kvar i lokalerna då krisen är över. Det är ett talkoarbete där vi alla måste hjälpa vaandra genom denna kris. Irade the Talman! Det är Jätteviktigtigt och fint att man kunda de ändra de ärjämförelsemånaderna från januari — februari till april—maj, Vilket hjälper många företagare, i synnerhet på Åland och längs kusten men också på många andra tillen så att det ger en rättvis jämförelse.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u18	Mr President! Firstly, it is indeed important to thank the government for this important package of support and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for the good changes that have also been required by the government parties. Indeed, I myself think that this is primarily about defending jobs, defending livelihoods and defending the fact that viable companies are not going bankrupt because of this crisis, and that is something that must be done with great determination here. The point that I wanted to raise here, too, is the position of university student restaurants — they seem to be in such a position to intervene — and the fact that there is a clear lack of clarity between the operators in the sector. In other words, in the context of this law, student restaurants could be interpreted as staff nutritional conditions and thus be excluded from this support, and I personally think that we should think that all open student restaurants cannot be regarded as such operators limited to small staff and serving a small limited customer base. In other words, when this delimitation of staff restaurants was made by a government closure decision, it was indeed appropriate, but it was also necessary because of the fact that staff nutrition conditions have made it possible to ensure that in these critical areas, such as medical care, staff catering functions. Well, these student restaurants really do not work on the same logic, because they do not serve just one small unit or limited staff, as has already been mentioned here. At least here in Helsinki, every UniCafe is open to the whole population and everyone can go to dinner there, and that is why, even now, these restaurants have had to close their doors. Mr President! In this context, I would like to stress the importance of clarity of these guidelines, given that there is a clear lack of clarity about this interpretation and demarcation. I think that it is quite unreasonable that, in such a difficult situation, operators in the sector still have to ask themselves whether they are entitled to this aid or whether they may then be eligible for the general aid which is coming. I would therefore like to see clear and good guidelines drawn up at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy when the application for aid is opened, so that all such misinterpretations and ambiguities are made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u19	Mr President! This is an important point that we are working together to support those operators, that is to say restaurants with limited freedom of trade, on the basis of this bill that is now under discussion, and then, of course, important work is being done to enable the restaurant industry to open up its business to normal. Mr President! I am afraid that, although we all have good will here, quite a few of us Finns will be disappointed next week that, in view of this, quite a few smaller restaurants will not be able to open up their business now with these formulations of the report on the amendment of the Act on Disease Control and these forms of support that we are now deciding on, but will also keep the door open next week and for a long time. This, of course, also underlines the rules that will be adopted when we deal with these issues here later, but it can also be influenced in this area when we talk about financial support and the economic conditions that move forward. For this reason, I would like to appeal to colleagues, particularly those from the centre and the Greens, who have publicly supported a reduction in VAT for restaurant activities or a temporary extension of the sale of wines and other mild alcoholic beverages for restaurants. These would be the kind of measures that could lead to the need not to be disappointed that the door of a restaurant close to its own area of residence will suddenly continue to be stuck and closed next week because they have had to estimate that these government rules, which have now been published, will not be able to open up without having such an incentive to try out a new business in such a way that it would be easier to exceed the threshold of profitability — either in such a way that VAT is actually temporarily lower, or in such a way that, for example, sales out into a larger part of the business that would be significantly supported by this expansion of sales of alcoholic beverages. That is why I hope that in Parliament we will now find an agreement in some direction on this choice of means. We have proposed changes to the rules by which restaurants can be opened so that they can be based more directly on risk assessments, distances, what actually affects infections, so that in certain situations more than 50% of the customer's seats can be used. We have also proposed a reduction in VAT on restaurant activities on a temporary basis, and here today Mr Vartiainen will make a statement on the sale of wines from restaurants. If at least one of these were to be taken, then next week we would have fewer of those feelings of disappointment, especially those waitresses and experimenters and professionals who think they can get back to work. For everyone, it does not happen with these rules of the game which now exist in the government proposal, but there is still a chance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u20	Mr President! This package of support for the restaurant sector in the context of the corona crisis is very much in order, in this respect the government's proposal is quite correct, not only because the restaurant sector, if any, is perhaps the sector which is perhaps the hardest hit by the corona crisis, but also because of the decisions we have closed down the restaurant business. This has been the government's line of action in relation to the rest of these corporate subsidies, which have been aimed at trying to save businesses which have genuinely suffered only from the corona crisis and otherwise have operational conditions — to avoid unnecessary bankruptcies in this society and thereby also to save jobs. In this respect, the construction of this aid package is quite right, and this applies to all these similar arrangements that have been made here. It is also obvious here that potential demand exists. When we get a little over this crisis, that demand exists and in that sense the conditions for business clearly exist, and it would be a shame to lose businesses. I wanted to make my speech, above all, because these government support measures have so far been given to sole proprietors — for the first time clear subsidies are given to sole proprietorships in a situation where they can maintain, to continue to do business on a small scale, because demand has so much gone off. And this is the same idea. But these application processes are terrible. I can say that in a very specific way when I have to stand by and watch it. These processes are enormously difficult both through Kela and through employment centres. Unfortunately, once these processes have been carried out, we do not have a system built in such a way that application processes, work plans processes now take account of the situation that, in reality, this business activity is still going on, it is not a genuine job search. And the same is true of these food support schemes: if these application processes are made too difficult, we will have the vast majority, the overwhelming majority, of entrepreneurs without the support they would need and deserve in this situation. In this regard, I would like to see a wise man and a learner now. The great thing is that the authorities have been very flexible, very flexible, and they are there all the time, identifying these difficulties here. But this application is a real challenge.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u21	Irade the Talman! It is great that good work has been done in Parliament to further develop this support package. The committee has intervened in many of the issues raised by the government representatives in this referral debate, and certainly by a few opposition representatives in relation to these reference months and the level of support. Mr Harjanne also raised this level of support in his own speech, and he said that these restrictions have, of course, partly affected, but certainly partly, the world situation in general. And 100 percent of these losses are difficult to compensate for, but it is good that a small level increase has been made here. There has also been talk of alcohol policy here, and it is great that Mr Zyskowicz's memory and copy machine play, although I regret to say that he had not read the Hufvudstadsbladet in this survey. Now that we are about to dismantle the restrictions, it may be a little inconsistent to link such a change in the alcohol law to the problems of the limited situation, because it is of course a rather complex package, which will easily lead to, for example, the retail trade having the right to transport home, so it is better to look at the matter as a whole. But that doesn't make it bad, does it? It is reasonable to assume that we Finns are not innately unable to handle alcohol. Last season, when the alcohol law was reformed, the consequences were then estimated to be disastrous. Well, that's not what happened. I believe that the consequences have not been negative, and it is worth thinking that this alcohol policy could be relaxed in this country anyway. The structure of retail trade has changed, people's alcohol consumption has clearly changed here, and it is difficult if a Finnish operator, even a Finnish small brewery, is in a weaker position than a foreigner. These are issues that need to be looked into, but we should not now tie them to this package but take them as a matter of our own. I believe that many of us here hope that this issue will soon come back to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u22	Mr President! I'll come back to this sale of alcohol from restaurants. In this crisis situation, it would be quite easy and cheap to make things easier for many restaurants. It has been devalued here as a small policy and said that alcohol policy is not part of this, but sometimes, if you have time, look at the margins of the restaurant industry and where the low profitability comes from. So it depends a little, year after year they change, and there are differences between restaurants, but it is not very far from the truth to say that the margin and surplus of this industry actually come in many cases from the sale of alcohol. It's pretty rough, but it's true. It is really difficult to run a restaurant in Finland — expensive land, expensive labour costs, rents. The ethnic restaurants are doing a little better. [Jussi Halla-aho’s interlude] The idea that this would make alcohol harm worse now is a time for disbelief, because they are selling out their wine at a high price, and that would probably raise the average price at which alcohol is sold out, and this would make sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u23	Mr President! I too am one of those representatives who only at this second reading will be able to praise the good amendments tabled by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Of course, this option on the reference date, April-May 2019, which is of particular importance to the situation. However, it is still good that this option, which was included in the original government proposal from January to February 2020, remains the option. The Authority will then choose a more favourable option for this restaurant company. It is also important, of course, that re-employment takes account of temporary employment provided by personnel service companies. Then it has also been discussed that restaurants could be open in different ways in different parts of the country. It is an option worth exploring, since at the moment this corona epidemic is so different in different parts of the country. Of course it would then wish if this kind of thing was carried out, that they did not the same people then begin to demand the re-closure of Uusimaa. Pretty fast it's possible again, the fact that this kind of requirement comes up again. Then, to this motion which Mr Vartiainen has just put forward, I have to say that it requires me to be able, with certainty, to continue at home — the fact that a bottle of wine still needs to be considered separately from me.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u25	Mr President! This report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has improved in relation to the original government proposal, and I already thanked the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy last week in this Chamber as well as the Minister who, in a new, courageous way, said the government's proposal to the Chamber when he brought it in, and it is good that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy did so. But when the sector was in distress at the time of spring, it would also have been clear that the industry would have been given the message that it would be possible to temporarily relax, for example, the sale of wines and beers at home or the distance selling of domestic small breweries. In that sense, this aspect of restrictions and obligations, which we have always seen strongly in alcohol policy, has also been seen this spring. In that sense, I already said in the Chamber last week that the preparatory work has shown that the Ministry as a whole has not had the ability to understand the importance of this restaurant industry for Finland as a whole, as well as for the service sector and the whole business. It would therefore be justified to consider this strong regulation of alcohol policy in the future, and it would also clearly reflect on this employment and business perspective, and it would be transferred from STM to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. After all, the state has different means to deal with alcohol policy. Those tools, means are to regulate prices, value added tax, universal access or directly regulate or indirectly regulate its business activities. The Vice-President of the Centre, Mr Honkonen, whom I very much appreciate, said that bringing this alcohol policy into this debate is now a petty lobby policy, but I do see that if access is regulated and if it had been a desire to regulate in a way, then the government must then ask that if you wanted alcohol not to be sold in Finland specifically this spring, which could probably have prevented these domestic violence crises in some respects, then why did the government not close the Alkos? In other words, in terms of restricting access to alcohol, in a sense, alcohol policy should also reflect that aspect of work and industry, even though we have, quite rightly, been making these restrictions at the forefront of health and safety throughout the spring, and that is, of course, a priority. It is a pleasure to support Mr Vartiainen's statement at the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u26	Mr President! As I have said before, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy did a good job but a little inadequate to help the restaurant sector, and we have responded with protests to this result. These are the problems I have raised here before. As Mr Mykkänen said, it is very possible that it is not possible for many restaurant entrepreneurs to open a restaurant in June under government rules. This must be the big picture right here. Today I am actually going to talk about the draft statement made by the Assembly on the right to out- and distance sales of non-potent alcoholic beverages in restaurants. That would be a minor but significant change in the restaurant industry, not a petty alcohol policy, as Mr Honkonen has said here, for example. Mr Zyskowicz gave an excellent and very informative speech on this issue and strongly encouraged, at least, my confidence that the government will be able to do the right thing. True, after that, the words of the representatives of the city center, crossovers, weakened that faith. I would like to stress very much that I personally am concerned about the right actions, not those who do them. At the end of the day, I have had some wonders as to why I am such a strong supporter of the right to sell out wines, while at the same time representing healthy lifestyles. Here we come to the big problem of how we want to misinterpret this right of way. This is not about drinking or unhealthy life. It is now a question of the possibility for a free and responsible person to buy a bottle of wine from restaurants suffering from severe constraints. Allowing restaurants to be profitable and, on the other hand, giving people the opportunity to show that intimidation by the categorical stupidity of a free, thoughtful person is futile.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u27	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for the fact that many good changes have been made in order to manage the restaurants. I support Mr Reijonen's proposals on the need for a support programme for non-remunerated nutritionists and the introduction of a lower rate of VAT. These are very good proposals. I am also in favour of the drafts of the Convention, and I am in line with them. Distance selling to restaurants and small breweries is already important for equality. You can already order wine and beer from abroad, why not from the country? It would improve the real difficulties of restaurants and small breweries today. In this connection, I would like to raise one point: I myself have worked as a nurse and then in sport for many years, but after that I went on to work mainly for 26 years in restaurants, pubs, festivals, platforms. I've been watching Finnish alcohol behavior from the beginning of the evening until the early hours of the morning, and that's after 12 or 1 o'clock, and now if the opening hours are 11 o'clock and the liquor license is 10 o'clock in the evening, it won't help much restaurants. As it turns out, some restaurants can't even open their doors. It'll be more expensive if you open it. I would like to suggest, as will probably be the case after this sitting, that the experiment should be at 12 o'clock, i.e. until 12 o'clock, that there would be a liquor license and one bar closed. Indeed, we must rely on the alcohol behavior of Finns. We know that young people no longer drink so much, and such guidance can be given, and very responsibly Finns have also taken up this corona time. In order for the restaurants and, as a result, event organizers, programme agencies, musicians to do better, this opening hours need to be extended a little longer. Summer is coming, and if it turns out to be bad, we'll get back out of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u28	Mr President! The restaurant sector is by no means the only sector that has been brought to its knees by this corona crisis, but we have a special obligation to help the restaurant sector in particular over this crisis, namely here in the Chamber we have, by law, limited the scope for action in the restaurant sector. This also explains, of course, why there has been a great deal of talk about restaurants in this spring of crisis. What has happened so far is that about two months ago, Parliament dealt with proposals that closed the restaurants at the beginning of April. In connection with that decision, we in Parliament unanimously required that a support package be brought to the restaurants, a compensation model, which compensates the entrepreneurs for the losses caused by this closure. Well, although much has been said about the restaurant industry over the past few weeks and months, there has still been very little action, and this proposal was also expected for a very long time. These forms of support for restaurants have been prepared for weeks at the same time as the restaurants are still in deep distress. When the proposal was finally received, it still needed to be changed and improved here in Parliament and, as several colleagues have praised here, the Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Mr Vartiainen for this correction process. Regional solutions for the opening of restaurants have also been called for by representatives of government parties. This is also the point that was required of Parliament when the decision to close the restaurants was taken then two months ago, so it would certainly have been natural for this regional possibility to have already been clarified and brought to us for decision. Today, however, a statement has been made at the mouth of Mr Vartiainen, and the Assembly hopes, on behalf of the restaurant industry, that we will receive strong support, which is also supported by the comments made by the government parties, particularly on the subject of publicity. This opposition to the draft statement has been justified here by the fact that the proposal is not part of this package of support for restaurants and could be returned to it later, but this would be an explicit way of supporting restaurants, and restaurants need support right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u29	Mr President! There's been a lot of talk here about restaurants for weeks and for a reason. I myself came from that office just now to listen to the debate and answer the questions from one of the restaurant entrepreneurs about when we will be informed of how to open up and how to plan for the future. So, on a very tight schedule here, Parliament has worked both with this support package and then with the opening of restaurants. It is precisely for this reason that Parliament has gone under the law to restrict the pursuit of a business, that it is also very important that support is now being provided, which, thanks to the work of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, has now become much fairer than the government's proposal for this Parliament. It is regrettable, however, that we should now give the impression in this Chamber that the statement we are proposing is coming to the debate later, because at least what I have been able to follow from public sources, I understand that it has already been decided in the government that such proposals should not be brought here to the Chamber, that the alcohol law will not be opened. It is, of course, a real shame, and I hope that what has been said in this Chamber today is true. However, if we really want to demonstrate that the scope for action in restaurants would now be extended during this crisis by means of this temporary legislative amendment, which is now being proposed, then this could be required. As all Members of Parliament know, if Parliament does not require something and if there is not a government programme record or the will of the majority of government parties, then it is less likely that it will happen. The support for restaurants was still left out of the amount that the sector itself would have hoped for and which, of course, was also very small in relation to the losses it had suffered. Of course, the best support is for restaurants to operate as normally as possible, like other business activities. Reflecting on regional restrictions or dismantling regional restrictions is definitely something that the Government will certainly have to consider in this context. However, I hope that, while everyone here will certainly sign that the aim of these subsidies is that as many entrepreneurs and restaurant entrepreneurs as possible will overcome this crisis, you could also consider supporting this impetus we have put forward. Traditionally, in Parliament, alcohol-related issues, and in this case, of course, trade-free issues, have been so-called issues of conscience, so I hope that you will be able to vote here, in accordance with the position of your party, for example, the Greens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u30	Mr President! Indeed, restaurants are in a very serious historic situation, and that support for restaurants, which the Parliament required the government to bring here when the business is restricted and when reasonable compensation was required — after all, that was a torso. It did not understand entrepreneurship and came very late. But thank you now, Mr Vartiainen, for the understanding of entrepreneurship, which is also in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and I think that the President and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have a great deal to thank. Unfortunately, however, that proposal, which the parties in the government were able to make, was not enough, and we have protested. But what this is about when we talk about the situation in restaurants: this is about the fact that as soon as possible we should be able to get the economic wheels running safely. This support is needed, but above all what is needed is for entrepreneurs to try, to do that work, and that is why we have made and support this Vartiainen statement. We want to break down the restrictions so that entrepreneurs can work and the economy's wheels are running safely. Now that we are listening to this debate here, I would like us to think about how and when we could do it in Finland’s future, when all the speeches about the government have ‘not been able to be done,this is going to be difficult’. We know that alcohol law can be reformed. Well, of course, we know from the last period that it was quite challenging and it was tough the last time the restrictions were lifted during the last parliamentary term. But there is a strong will here: the chairman of the Central Parliamentary Group has supported these points in our statement, at least in part, that there could be, at least temporarily, distance sales to small breweries, and hopefully there has also been support for this VAT. When there has been strong support here — Mr Zyskowicz has again presented, who is also in favour of social media, and the newspaper has also supported — can you promise that your position will be yours, your speeches will certainly be opened up, and in the government you will be proposing these things to move forward? Perhaps it would speed up if you accepted our statement, which I think is indeed very, very good. In other words, we want small breweries to have the right to sell it out, to sell it at a distance and to have alcohol, beer and wine, to sell out of restaurants and to count the alves of restaurants at least on a temporary basis. Is it possible that the government parties would actively promote these when the parliamentary groups of the government parties meet? And then, Mr President, here Mr Laiho has made an excellent point, and there have been speeches about it, about these student, university restaurants that have been missed. I wonder whether it is now possible that some action should be taken within the government also for student nutrition conditions which are indeed:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u31	Mr President! In my speech yesterday, I strongly thanked the Finnish Government for its success in combating this epidemic, and I said again and again that on the basis of current data, based on current figures, Finland has been a success story in limiting and combating this epidemic. Thank you to the Finns, who have acted very responsibly under these exceptional circumstances, and of course to the government, which has made good decisions, given good instructions and recommendations. I also think that a good policy is that the aim now is to move towards zero in the new cases of disease, with the aim of wiping out the virus, taking into account the need to open up Finnish society, which is, of course, on whatever terms we cannot go into that repression. And this opening-up is now the opening of restaurants, and I think it is quite right to go slowly, gradually and cautiously, and, above all, to be able to strengthen public confidence in security, because nobody goes to an open restaurant if one believes that there is an infection there. I therefore believe that it is entirely justified that nightclubs should not be opened in this context. As far as Mr Vartiainen's statement is concerned, we have now heard some explanations from the Greens and the weak: it is the wrong time, it is the wrong place, it is the wrong motive, it is the wrong connection and so on. This attitude to date in this debate is exactly the opposite of what you are doing on social media. Is it the case that this social media is a kind of parallel reality in which parliamentarians, other politicians, parties act for good things, so that when, in the greenet.fi column, with beautiful pictures, the Green Vice-Presidents tell us that we have to allow this distance selling, and there over 700 people share it, it is really believed that the Greens are doing this? That is the way it is, and this is how you behave in a parallel reality, and such a double life in a certain way is what the Members of Parliament are living. When we get here, there'll be a whole lot of reasons why this isn't gonna happen. I'm sorry about the social media conversation. On 19 May, when Mr Multala asked Mr Kärnä whether these other parties were against — when Mr Kärnä said that the stick was the only one who supported — Fatim Diarra, the Vice-President of the Greens, replied that it was not true and said that they were in favour of this and that this was the Greens' position and that they were behind it. Well, why don't you take a vote behind this, too? Oh, the Greens aren't here. They're holding a crisis meeting somewhere in the hall. But I hope,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u32	Mr President! In the first half of Mr Zyskowicz's speech, I can agree with every word, but of course I am not going to repeat it now that we have just heard it. These restaurant issues have very much spoken to us here, much more than, for example, the role of health care in this corona crisis. I have often wondered what this is about — perhaps because we are so familiar with restaurant matters and, of course, it also attracts different public attention. But in order to get serious about this, we now have, of course, this package of aid. This package of support received its original proposal from the government and after its committee reading a very balanced wording, and it is very good that we have it at hand here. Of course, money can always be added to good targets, and it is easy for the opposition in particular to do so. However, this debate has now dealt quite extensively with the whole of this situation, including the gradual opening-up of restaurant activities to be discussed later in the second session. I will take the floor there at a later stage to address the potential challenges of this regional diversity. In this context, however, with regard to the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I would like to point out a sentence like this: ‘Although there are significant uncertainties about the virus,however the data base has been strengthened,it is considered that it is particularly possible that the spread of the virus in society is not expected to be completely eradicated in the This was therefore a direct quote from the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. In other words, we are now in a position of balance with the opening up of restaurants as well as with the fact that even if they were opened, will people dare enter them, and that is the result of this need for financial support that we now have in mind here. As a third point, as far as I am concerned, when this debate on alcohol has been strongly raised, I do not think it is the right time for more alcohol to be sold during this kind of corona crisis and the increased anxiety caused by it. This is a position on this situation. We can talk about tax policy, we can talk about alcohol and legislation later on, but the basic idea that we should now consider how to communicate it more easily, how to sell it more easily, does not seem to me to fit into this social situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u33	Mr President! It is easy to agree with what Mr Lindén has said. The food industry really needs support and help and has been looking forward to it for almost two months. When the restaurants were closed, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs dealt with the matter very carefully before then and specifically pointed out that the condition for closure was that reasonable compensation should be imported and imported as soon as possible. Unfortunately, it has now been almost two months. This should have been much earlier, but of course the government has had many things here. I should like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for the considerable improvement in both these reference months and the amounts of compensation, but the amounts are still far too small. The Christian Democrats argued that this amount should have been around 300 million, and the sector experts themselves put the necessary amount even higher. But it's a good thing I did at this point. With regard to these statements, I am in favour of the proposal for the first statement by the People's Republic of Finland that the government should start preparing compensations without delay, the support programme for the excluded nutritionists, and, more importantly, that these companies should be taken into account in the preparation of general support, because we do also have entrepreneurs in this sector who have been excluded from this aid package and who are still in dire need of help. On the other hand — as easily as it might be possible for alcohol sales to improve the performance of entrepreneurs — the old saying is that alcohol is a drink of wise people, and as a health care professional it is the night and morning hours of supervision at the emergency clinic and handling many problems of alcohol abuse and problem abuse, not to mention the plight and pain of families with children and the situation of children, unfortunately I cannot support such a proposal to go out and sell — it would, of course, be largely that night. But by the way, I am encouraging people to move, to act responsibly, to take care of that responsible behaviour so that they and those who work there stay healthy and, on the other hand, to keep their customers healthy, so that we can open up society to the wider public. I continue to encourage, as I do many times in this Chamber, that, when you go there, you may buy the two or three take-aways, i.e. you compensate each of us for, for example, a limit on the number of customers and so on. So I think there's a lot of things to do here, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u34	Irade the Talman! If we are all talking about the right things and the same things now, perhaps it is worth saying that now that we are talking about selling alcohol, we are also allowed to sell alcohol out of restaurants today. Last season's alcohol reform allowed a certain volume of alcohol to be sold out of the restaurant at a certain time, and this must have been done with the strong involvement of Finns and the National Coalition Party, [Interjection from the Basic Finns Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u35	Mr President! I would first of all like to say that I fully agree with Mr Lindé's speech on alcohol sales. That is as far as I am concerned, but I would also like to comment on the subject of student and university restaurants, which has only come to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy at the end of the debate. The treatment of student and university restaurants has been similar to that of staff restaurants, which they are not. It is to be assumed that, in the context of the law, it has apparently been assumed that the interest rate would not be applied to staff restaurants in the same way as to other restaurants, and perhaps that is why the staff restaurants have also been excluded from the application of the restriction law. However, the committee's report now states that there have been different problems and staff restaurants have actually faced the same cash flow problems as other restaurants. But the reason why I spoke about student restaurants is that when student restaurant activities have been treated like human resource restaurants, these student restaurants have actually not been able to function because they have operated indoors in university premises, and when universities have closed down, in practice this has made the operation of these student restaurants completely impossible. And now that these student restaurants have not been able to operate because of this other legislation, the situation at the student restaurants is very critical. For this reason, I hope that, in future, when we deal with the general support of companies, at the latest at this stage, we will also have a better and stronger focus on the situation of these student restaurants and take a strong position that these student restaurants will be able to operate in the future, so that in the autumn, when they start their studies normally, these student restaurants will be able to resume their activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u36	Mr President! I too would like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for their good work on this report. On the other hand, the government's proposals could also be more specific in this time period and more focused on this liberalisation of business rather than constantly weighing down here what restrictions are still being maintained — which brings me to hotels, tourism companies and travel agencies. There is often talk of restaurants here, and these proposals are also related to them, but it is still not fair to forget that these companies are practically closed because of the activities of the authorities and they really need a lot of support. But as far as restaurant activities are concerned, neither is this support in any way such as to make a decisive contribution in this regard. Take, for example, my own municipality of residence, sunny Naantali, or the central city of our province Turku or the adjacent province of Satakunta, Pori: When I was just talking to Mrs Huru, there are apparently no corona infections in Satakunta. And when I looked at the statistics of the Turku University Central Hospital, there are 12 new corona infections, two per day, throughout the province of Varsinais-Suomi, over the last six days. And then when business is in customer places and God knows what is limited even until October, this doesn't make much sense. These regional differences really should be better taken into account. No support will be sufficient if business activity is not restricted to the extent that entrepreneurs can also actually keep employees at work and running the business. Now that we have discussed the good things in themselves again, these proposals will also bring a little relief to the lives of restaurants, but the most important thing would certainly be to liberalise this business on a regional basis. Well, there's no help from the stick. Yesterday, for example, we voted on draft statement 6, which was in this objection 1. That is where we would have temporarily changed VAT on restaurant activities. That too was voted against, unfortunately. However, here we are, a representative. Könttä first accepted the alcohol issue with a very liberal mind and then Hoskonen immediately knocked him out. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u37	Mr President! When it comes to the government's proposal for a law to support the reemployment of nutritionists and to compensate for the restrictions on their activities, I would see that the context lies in the fact that some 10,000 companies were closed down in this Chamber by law. As a result, some 70,000 people walked home, had no work to do. So, temporarily, we're out of jobs. For entrepreneurs, this situation was a disaster. Well, I would also like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for the work that the original 123 million for this support had become slightly better, to around 171 million. It is not enough, however, because even after this good work, some will be left undone, even though the government specifically promised to compensate and take care of. Note: The law closed down the companies, and the government promised to compensate. Is compensation and then taking care of those businesses, giving them a little bit? I don't think so. To the extent that it is said here that, for example, the sale of wines and the sale of mild alcoholic beverages is a trifle of nibble, this sector is running around 5.3 billion pots. We can imagine not talking about a small amount of money in this kind of picture. Well, for this reason that this is short, there are now tools for the government. For example, Mr Reijonen has made two good statements here. The second is the aid scheme for non-remunerated nutritionists — this is a good thing — and, of course, I would also recommend the introduction of lower VAT at this point. These are tools. There is also a good proposal from Mr Vartiainen, which I also support with a warm heart. Here we see now whether the government wants to use good tools and whether the government is concerned about nutritionists. Great speeches have been heard in this Chamber from members of the government, but then immediately they are rejected by members of the same party. As Mr Zyskowicz has credited here with this kind of ‘jippii marketing’ in social media life, which is constantly practiced by the parties and by the Greens,I also want to see,as much as there are so many people here,that voting behaviour is in line Thank you — I hope for wise decisions
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u38	Värderade Talman! Det har talats mycket om restaurangpaket och det finns säkert inte orsak att längre förlänga den discussionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u39	Mr President! There are indeed good discussions here, and I hope that the government will prepare quickly for the sale of wines and beers and also for the distance selling of domestic small breweries. There is no need to open the whole alcohol legislation when you only take these points. However, the meeting had a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 1, and I therefore make a proposal in accordance with protest 1: ‘The Commission requires that the government ensure that the appropriate and fair level of aid is maintained and that the necessary adjustments are made and that the Commission does not delay its deliberations on the presentations which enable the sale of alcoholic beverages
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u40	Mr President! Even during this debate, there are still some shortcomings which we would like to see clarified by the government, especially student restaurants and their situation as part of this support package, and also this regional reflection, which has also been called for on the part of the government and which has been required by Parliament in connection with the decision to close restaurants. However, the most significant deficiency remains the level of compensation. In the context of the closure decision, Parliament required that these losses be reimbursed to the restaurants, and since this aid package is inadequate in terms of the amount of the euro, there has been an objection to this. In addition, measures have been proposed to help restaurants in other ways beyond this crisis when this amount in euros was short. This includes this provision for the right to out and distance sales, on which we have made a statement, as well as a temporary reduction in VAT on restaurant activities, for which we also have a proposal. Several contributions have been made to this exclusion and distance selling, so perhaps it is worth recalling what is being proposed here. Firstly, this would be a temporary measure to help precisely restaurants in this acute crisis. It would not apply to spirits, nor would it apply to sales in small hours, as the opening hours of restaurants are limited. The harm caused by alcohol is, of course, to be taken seriously, and it is important to pay particular attention to families with children, many of whom are faced with extreme situations as a result of this crisis, but, as far as alcohol sales are concerned, this is only a small part, and the problem of alcohol consumption is mainly directed at alcohol, which is bought outside restaurants. Finally, Mr President, I support this proposal by Mrs Talvitie, which is accompanied by an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u41	Mr President! Having listened to this debate, I have noticed that a number of contributions have been made here, both on the subject and on the subject. There have also been statements made by representatives of some parties in the social media. I am sure it is also true, but I do not think that they will get anyone to vote in another way on this proposal themselves; they will not necessarily take the matter any further. I would like to raise two points here. Firstly, when we talk about compensation for the loss of the restaurant industry, you can say that this came from the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which, in my view, quite rightly required that, when a particular sector of activity is closed down by the law and, in that way, significantly interfere with the freedom to conduct a business and the protection of property, it is appropriate for the State to compensate for that moderate loss. I would like to point out that this is not a question of damages or of any principle of full compensation, but of reasonable compensation for losses. I am sure we can all agree that there is also a certain will for all of us to be able to make up for the losses far more fully, but it must also be said that it is difficult to find a perfect compensation model that would hit right and be sure even the right size. In particular, I would like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for the fact that, although the basic proposal was reasonably good, the small problems which were linked to this model have now been very well addressed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy — and I think, if I have correctly understood, quite unanimously. What is, for example, the reference month when we start looking at the fall in sales or the costs associated with persons has been corrected. The issue of temporary employment has also been taken into account. This too needs to be taken into account: even though this is the sort of differentiation according to the size of companies, it must be remembered that this freedom of business applies to larger companies as much as to smaller ones. The Constitution is not based on the fact that we only have property protection or freedom of business for small businesses, but it is of all sizes, and in that sense this proposal is certainly not perfect, but it is very good, this is what Parliament has wanted to produce when it mentions and raises its issue of compensation. The most important thing, however, is to think about the future of the restaurant industry, to be able to keep the epidemic under control in such a way that people dare to go on spending, dare to get started and that we can open up the restaurant business, which is, in fact, the subject of the next plenary session, and I sincerely hope that this can be done quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u42	Mr President! I will continue with that alcohol, when there have also been proposals and speeches. In that previous speech, the representative: The salmon mentioned that there was probably no other way to vote. That is the problem: there is one in social media, and there has been another vote here. Now that I have listened, Mr Könttä mentioned that ‘there is a strong support for the right to sell small breweries’. How do I feel that when we are about to vote on this, Mrs Könttä will either be absent or she will not vote at all. Sometimes I feel that Pekka Puska is still here, because Mr Hoskonen mentioned that the responsible decision-makers who are responsible for liberalising the sale of wines cannot just do that. This is a bit out of line with Könttä, isn't it? I personally am in favour of this sale of alcohol at a distance and out. Mr Adlercreutz made a good speech earlier. However, he pointed out that no application was made for permits — even when this is possible today. The problem is, of course, that it is limited to 5.5%, and applying for such a permit has probably not made any sense to permit bureaucracy. However, it would be all right for Finnish restaurants to be able to operate Europeanly, internationally here and sell out wine. That does not in any way add to alcoholism or other mild phenomena, since, as we know, these wines are higher in price-quality terms, i.e. they are by no means such a drink of drunkenness. Perhaps we could continue with this vote. Many times it has also been said that these are questions of conscience. It would also be good to have a list of what are conscience issues, because at least social media and behaviour here seem a little different. But perhaps in some time, Prime Minister Marin will also get the government into a position to promote that one line and not just tell the other elsewhere and then something else will be done here. As such, good proposals have been made here, and I hope that we will soon be able to vote on them. We support these proposals in order to liberalise the business sector and to provide a small degree of flexibility for restaurants to cope in this tight situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u43	Mr President! At the end of the day, two questions. Here you said, Mr Salmon, that it is important that the epidemic is brought to an end — and that is the case — it is important that restaurants and cafés get their support — that is to say, the most important thing in terms of its health, that is to say, the suppression of the epidemic, is actually to get the economic wheels running and entrepreneurs to try. That is why I am asking now, when there are no ministers here and it is particularly important that we get an answer as to whether the government has agreed to open the alcohol law, that we can wait and that we have reason to expect a proposal to allow the distance selling of small breweries and to allow the sale of soft alcoholic beverages in restaurants. Since many Members of Parliament have said that this is not the right time, but a little later, and strong support has come from the government parties, I will just ask the simple question that is now allowed to wait. I'm sure you'll listen to this and think about the whole restaurant business. In my own city of Helsinki, we have a huge fall in tax revenue, as the service sector is such a significant part of our business structure. We need action from Parliament so that the wheels of the economy can be turned around. [Anneli Kiljunen’s interlude] And then I ask who is opposed to perhaps having an influence on the opposition. When the majority of the parties here have supported these, then who is opposed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u44	Mr President! I want to correct the misunderstanding that when I was talking about the importance of getting the restaurant business started and people moving and consuming and the wheels of the Finnish economy running, I did not mean that this is the same as the reform of the alcohol law. In my opinion, the reform of the alcohol law and getting the wheels of the Finnish economy running are completely different things and different dimensions. [Left: Yes!] In my opinion, the most important thing for Finnish restaurants at the moment is that the epidemic is at a time when people are confident that it is safe to leave homes, to go to restaurants, to go to shops and to spend, and the second is that, because of this situation, we are always able to mitigate and mitigate these restrictions so that business can be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u45	Mr President! Indeed, since many speakers have raised the need to change the alcohol law or the alcohol law, it is worth remembering that we are now adapting to the situation that this corona virus has created for us. Financial losses and others have now been minimised by these government proposals. That's what this is all about. I understand that populism can always be practiced and admired by the press, but the thing is that if anyone thinks that, in this situation, we are going to go into this package to feed the reform of the alcohol law, for example, and when you get involved, ladies and gentlemen, this is where fishing and hunting and even road matters are concerned, then there will be such a package that you will never be ready. I wish you had a little bit of realism in those speeches. Of course it is the time for political action, but it is not today on this issue. Now, Finland is slowly waking up from its corona turbulentness, and I hope that you, ladies and gentlemen, will take this matter seriously and will not go into confusion with things that are not really part of this context. When the time comes one day for these laws to be reformed, let it be there, but do not get involved in things that are not directly relevant to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u47	Mr President! I would like to continue this debate on these student restaurants because of the fact that all the other parties who commented on this matter stated that these student restaurants would now be categorically excluded from this support, and I personally disagree with this. I think that is still a little unclear. For example, in Helsingin Sanomat, the committee adviser of the Committee on Economic Affairs stated that if this was a restaurant open to all, then it would be assumed that this support would be available: ‘The UnionCafé restaurant in the Kaivoyard would be considered to be such a restaurant if it could not,’that is to say, a restaurant which could not be supported. And at least I could not find a strict definition of the categorical classification of student restaurants as such staff nutritional conditions which were excluded from this restriction law. That is why I would like to point out that I believe that the status of student restaurants is unclear here, and that is why, in the first speech, I called for clear instructions from the ministry when this search for support is opened, and I would like to see it opened up and these student restaurants continue to benefit from this support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u48	Mr President! I am not trying to prolong this, but I hope that we will be able to vote soon, but I would like to ask Mrs Salmon one more question. When a little more is said here, I will ask you straight away: does the centre intend, however, to support the adjustment of the number of customers to the extent that smaller restaurants also have access to profitable activities? What's your line here? And then, are you going to take account of regional differences? As we know, the situation here in Helsinki is quite different from that of the provinces, and how have I understood and read about social media, so the provinces are generally told everything nice and warm, so how about in this regard, do you consider the pain of regional restaurant entrepreneurs in this situation? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u49	Mr President! I would also like to comment on student restaurants. It is precisely so that the situation in student restaurants is unclear and, in the opinion of some, they have been interpreted in such a way that they are staff restaurants. Whether they were or not, in any case, their operation is completely impossible. For example, in my home town of Lappeenranta, LUT, or Lappeenranta—the University of Lahti’s student restaurant is completely impossible to operate—this restaurant operates in the university’s interior, the university’s closed student restaurant does not make it However, it is now categorically suggested that this restaurant business would not receive any support from the State, which is why I hope that in any event this issue will be clarified either by the government or in the next general form of support for companies, so that these restaurants will receive the support they need in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u50	Mr President! I would just like to clarify this debate on these student restaurants, because this has been clarified in the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which has been unanimously approved by all its members from the parties that have spoken about it here. Thus, this legislation, which is now being adopted, compensates only and explicitly for the loss of catering shops within the scope of this Restriction Act 153/2020. Indeed, the transfer of schools and educational institutions to remote education has significantly reduced the number of customers in these student canteens, but in the Government's proposal these educational establishment restaurants and canteens were not included in this, and the Committee on Economic Affairs has been clear about this in that way. In a way, these may be regarded as “interruptible ” but they were not part of this legal package. Then perhaps what could be done here would be a strong call for this issue of general aid to be dealt with in such a way as to improve the situation. Or if the government wants to bring a specific supplementary proposal to this motion for support for restaurants, then of course we will welcome it in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy and we will deal with it very quickly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u51	Mr President! I myself was in the Committee on Economic Affairs and I agree with Mr Vartiainen, as chairman of the committee, that this law is specifically about these restaurants that are closed down by a restriction law, and that student restaurants were comparable to human resources restaurants — although there are often others who work in the company where they are — and they were indeed excluded from the liability of this law. Nor was it decided to close these student restaurants as such, which, unfortunately, were now subject to the procedure, i.e. when the students were assigned to distance learning, so of course the customers were also lost. As Mr Vartiainen said, they are, unfortunately, in the position of a sort of intervener here, but I myself have assumed that it is the general support which will then be able to intervene in terms of costs. We now appeal to the government parties to get this general support quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u52	Mr President! Indeed, I have read this opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and I understand that in it the committee wanted to make it clear that it is now only and explicitly compensating for the losses that have been incurred through this restriction law. However, the exclusion clause specifically applied to all but these closed staff restaurants, and now we have a situation in which some of the student restaurants do not have such closed restaurants serving just a specific unit or a particular district. So can this be the case that some of the student restaurants are covered by this support and some are not? I would understand that there is a misinterpretation of this law if student restaurants that are open to everyone were to be excluded from this support. But I agree that, if that were the case, they will definitely be covered by this general aid at the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u53	Mr President! I would like to say about this different corona situation in the provinces mentioned earlier by Mr Junnila: in Satakunta there has been the last corona infection on 29 April. Before that, there have been one or two in a day, at most less than ten positive. A lot of samples have been taken and the total number is 53 positive. In other words, the differences between regions are indeed significant, so hopefully this will also be taken into account when imposing restrictions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u54	Four proposals for statements have been made during the debate, so we must put the matter to the vote. The votes will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session shall resume at 4:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-79.u55	We shall now resume the adjourned session at 4 p.m. and the second item in the order of business. With the support of Mari-Leena Talvitie Saara-Sofia Sirén, she has tabled two motions for a statement in accordance with protest 1 and with the support of Minna Reijonen Jani Mäkelä, in support of protest 2. In addition, Juhana Vartiainen, supported by Mari-Leena Talvitie, has made a proposal for a statement, which is multiplied with representatives.
