ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Committee on Defence must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by Mr Haavisto, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches that have been requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The length of the other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. A maximum of 90 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. I would like to say that after Mr Haavisto's speech and group speeches, Mr Haavisto will receive a reply, followed by a debate on the remainder of this pre-deposited period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u2	Mr President! On the basis of a report to the Parliament, Parliament will be consulted in accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act on the continuation of Finland's participation in the International Coalition Against Isisi Crisis Management Mission in Iraq. The International Coalition against Isis was established in 2014. Finland has been involved in the coalition from the beginning and was also a member of its management group, a small group, during this government. The coalition has 83 members and its activities are based on UN Security Council resolutions to prevent the threat posed by ISIS. Finland has participated in the coalition military crisis management operation since 2015. Since 2017, Finland’s training and advice has concerned not only the Peshmerga forces of the Kurds in Northern Iraq but also security forces under the Iraqi central government elsewhere in the Iraqi region. Mr President! The situation in Iraq has changed considerably since the International Coalition started supporting the Iraqi Government and security forces six years ago. Isis has been declared defeated after losing its land in Iraq in December 2017. This enabled the return and reconstruction of internally displaced persons to start. It is estimated that there are around 4.7 million returnees, but there are still some 1.2 million internal refugees in Iraq. The stabilisation of the ISIS regions will continue to be a prerequisite for returning to and remaining in the region of origin. Iraq still needs the support of the international community for this. Even ISIS is no longer in possession of land, it still has supporters and sleeper cells in Iraq. According to UN estimates, ISIS still has some 10,000 fighters in Iraq and Syria. Isis has taken advantage of the emergency conditions brought about by the corona virus and carried out attacks and strengthened its operations online. The security situation in Iraq has improved since the military defeat of ISIS, but it remains fragile. That is why the presence of the coalition is still needed, in particular to support the Iraqi security forces, to develop the security sector in the country and to stabilise the security situation. The political situation in Iraq has continued to be unstable. A new government was brought into the country in the spring, creating cautious optimism. The challenges facing the country are also great. Iraq’s public finances are in considerable difficulties and the corona pandemic has put an extreme strain on the health system. Alongside economic and social reforms, it would be important to be able to reform the electoral law, to step up anti-corruption efforts, to improve cooperation between the Iraqi central government and the Kurdish Autonomous Community and to reform the security sector. The need for reform of the security sector has been highlighted as the number of attacks by Shia militias against international targets, and in particular US targets, has increased this year. Finland aims to support the stabilisation and reconstruction of Iraq in a comprehensive manner. The Finnish Embassy in Baghdad was reopened last autumn after a break of nearly 29 years. The diplomatic presence in Iraq will facilitate the strengthening and comprehensive development of relations between Finland and Iraq. In addition to military crisis management, Finland supports the development of the security sector in Iraq, inter alia by participating in the EUAM Ira civilian crisis management operation. The mission provides support to the Iraqi Ministry of the Interior and the National Security Adviser’s Office. Finnish experts are well represented in the operation, and the Finnish Ambassador Anne Meskanen was just elected as Deputy Head of Mission. Finland also supports the stabilisation of ISIS-exempted regions through the UNDP stabilisation fund, supports humanitarian mine clearance and cooperates with development. This creates the conditions for those who have left their home to return to their homes. This year, Finland has supported EUR 2 million in anti-corona epidemic measures in Iraq. Finally, a long-standing project to develop vocational training in Iraq is also on the way. Since 2014, Finland’s development and humanitarian aid to Iraq has amounted to around EUR 35 million. Support for the reconstruction of Iraq is also one of the priorities of the international coalition. The coalition also seeks to prevent the movement of foreign fighters, to block ISIS' funding channels and to act against ISIS' propaganda. Restoring the stability and security of Iraq and combating ISIS is important not only for regional security but also for Finland, Europe and global security. Although Isis has lost its territory, it is still capable of carrying out terrorist attacks. Isis' ideology also attracts individual supporters, as we have unfortunately seen recently in Europe. Mr President! As set out in the report, Finland would continue its education and advice activities in the security sector in Iraq. Our participation in the ORI mission would continue from 1 January 2021 with the current strength of approximately 80 soldiers until the end of 2021. Participation should include training and advisory activities, necessary self-protection and national support and maintenance components. Training is increasingly moving towards qualitative development of Iraqi troops and support for trainers. It is estimated that the total cost of participation in 2021 would be around EUR 17,2 million. The continuation of participation may be carried out in accordance with the Government’s budgetary plans for 2021 to 2024. The training provided by Finns has improved the ability of the trained forces to act as an entire unit and to develop the ability to cope in a combat situation. It has also created grounds for managing security situations and areas. By the beginning of October 2020 Finns have trained more than 5000 soldiers from the Peshmerga and Iraqi security forces. Finland has also participated in the NATO Training Mission in Iraq since the beginning of 2019. There is currently one Finnish soldier in the operation. The training mission complements the activities of the coalition against ISIS and other international actors. The current mandated strength of the mission is 580 soldiers, but NATO is currently examining the extension of the NMI mission. Mr President! Finally, by participating in training cooperation in the security sector in Iraq, Finland contributes to the fight against international terrorism and ISIS. The coalition's comprehensive action aims to support the improvement of the security situation in Iraq. Participation also improves the performance of our national defence. With the achievements of the mission and the changed activities of ISIS, the International Coalition will also look at its policies. In addition to Iraq and Syria, the coalition's work will continue to address the security threat posed by ISIS in other areas, such as Africa and in particular the Sahel. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u3	Thank you. — Mr Haavisto's presentation was not used for three minutes. — Minister Kaikkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u4	Mr President! How do you think we're gonna use this now? — Well, perhaps a few general words about our kriha activities: After all, we currently have UNIFIL in Lebanon, with some 200 peacekeepers as part of the French reserve battalion. It's a long-term operation, and it's a good place to go. It is good that we have one of these bigger operations and then a few little smaller ones. After all, in this house we are currently considering such a long-term approach with the help of the Parliamentary Committee, and it is good to draw further lines as well. This extension of the OIR mission was quite justified in that speech by Minister Haavisto. It remains to be seen whether there will be any adjustment between NMI and OR. There has been a debate on it for some time now, but there are still no political decisions, but there may be – we will come back to this during next year and then, of course, Parliament will be involved in that debate. Unfortunately, however, the fact remains that the security situation in Iraq is still weak. This situation has been influenced both by the confrontation between the United States and Iran and by the confusion of the internal political situation in Iraq, and there is a further addition here as a whole to this covid-19 pandemic and the activation of ISIS in the region. So it seems that there will continue to be trouble in the region. It is clear that Iraq will need training and advice for a long time to come. After all, the United States is reducing troops from the region. The US collective reduction on Iraq, about 500 people, is not as massive as it is on the Afghan side, so it does not matter so much either. I would like to conclude by saying, of course, that our point of view for this debate is to represent the defence administration here — and if there are questions relating to it, then I will answer them — that the basic military expertise needed for these crisis management operations will be built here in our own country through the development of domestic defence, but this will always also serve to develop our domestic expertise, that our men and women will have practical field experience, perhaps little to learn how the troops of other countries operate. Often a good example can be set for others themselves, but it has been felt that from the point of view of our national defence, too, there is an interest in having this international crisis management participation. There are, of course, other reasons for this, which Mr Haavisto has already referred to here, and that is to say that we, for our part, are stabilising these regions, or at least trying to do so, although it is not always easy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u5	Thank you. Well, that's a good time to spend, isn't it? — Mr Kari, please. Round of group talks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u6	Mr President! International terrorism poses a serious threat to peace and security. Participation in the coalition against Isis is one of Finland's strong commitments to the fight against terrorism and international cooperation to eradicate terrorism. Mr President! Today we are discussing the Government's report on Finland's continued participation in education cooperation in the security sector in Iraq. This Operation Inherent Resolve, which is referred to as the ORI mission, is part of the international coalition against ISIS, which was established in 2014. The coalition consists of more than 80 members, and Finland joined in the year the coalition was founded. Similarly, 36 countries are involved in the ORI, and Finland has been involved in this since 2015. The situation in Iraq has changed for the better since the establishment of the international coalition against ISIS. The year 2017 was a milestone for the coalition in Iraq when Isis was declared militaryly defeated in the country. However, this has not meant that the threat posed by ISIS has completely disappeared. Isis remains a serious threat, particularly in the Middle East. It should be borne in mind that: It is estimated that there are still some 1.2 million internally displaced persons in Iraq and that the situation is still fragile. Terrorist organisations such as ISIS are exploiting instability in the region in an attempt to retake the foothold. The Iraqi people, with the humanitarian consequences of the conflict, pay the most expensive price. It is in the interests of both Iraq and the international community to allow internal refugees to return to their homes so that they do not become permanent. The premature reduction of international aid in the fight against ISIS poses a risk of Iraq slipping back into an increasingly difficult situation. Inter-country conflicts can lead to wider regional and international security-disrupting consequences. In the light of the security situation in Iraq and in the report, the Group's Socialist Parliament supports Finland's continued participation in education cooperation in the security sector in Iraq also next year. Mr President! International crisis management is an integral part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. It will support post-conflict reconstruction and the stabilisation of societies. Our approach is based on comprehensive crisis management, which identifies the role of different actors in the reconstruction of societies. The key elements for building sustainable and stable societies are the eradication of corruption, the protection of human rights, the strengthening of the rule of law and good governance, the development of infrastructure and the recovery of economic activity. Rebuilding is a wide-ranging entity that highlights the centrality of effective cooperation between the various actors. Finland participates in the stabilisation of Iraq, in addition to the OIR operation, through the European Union civilian crisis management operation Iraq and the UNDP stabilisation fund. Participation in the ORI shall not be of one-way benefit. Finland's participation also supports the important development of our national defence capabilities. As highlighted in the report, valuable experience can be gained both in the management and maintenance of the forces and in the advisory functions required for operations in international operations. This aspect should not be forgotten either. Finland participates in international cooperation for stability and security. Terrorism is a cross-border threat and the fight against it is also about ensuring Finland’s national security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, when you come down here, there are the tables where you can leave your masks used in the trash can. After you come out of the podium, take a new mask and disinfect your hands when the time comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u8	Mr President! Today, there is a sixth report on Finland’s participation in security sector education cooperation in Iraq. Iraq and its neighbouring regions are marked by decades of wars, conflicts and violence. Although the development of Iraq has, in part, improved, the country is still internally divided and unstable. Jihadist Movement Isis took over large areas in Iraq and Syria in 2014 and established a Caliphate there. In September 2014, on the basis of the UN Security Council Resolution, an international coalition against ISIS was established to restore stability in Iraq. Finland joined the coalition in the same year. The coalition has been very successful and ISIS no longer has significant land holdings. Nevertheless, ISIS still has a large number of supporters and sleeping cells. Isis is a global security threat that extends all the way to Finland. The stability of Iraq is one of the key factors in the fight against the ISIS. Mr President! The general security situation in Iraq, which has been developing in a better direction, was hit by large-scale demonstrations in October 2019. The use of force between the United States and Iran also increased. The most threatening situation so far was Iran's missile attacks on international military bases in January. Finnish soldiers were not injured in the attacks, but the events were a reminder of the instability of the security situation. In previous years, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has drawn attention to the fact that: It is the responsibility of the Defence Forces to continuously update their assessment of the adequacy of their self-protection. The Iranian missile attack underscores the need to look more closely at the issue. Despite the importance of the operation, the Finns of Peru remind us that the safety of Finnish soldiers is the most important priority. The protection needs to be updated. Mr President! After months of political turmoil, Iraq won a new government in May 2020. The challenge facing the new government is the economy, which is further weakened by the corona pandemic and the fall in oil prices. The chaos of Iraq's internal policy has allowed other states to increase their influence within it. Internationally, there is concern that the United States has reported a significant reduction in its troops in Iraq. The withdrawal of the Americans could make the security situation worse again. Furthermore, Iran has gained a worrying amount of ground in Iraq. However, the formation of a government under the prevailing circumstances is an important step forward. In order to achieve lasting peace in Iraq, it is essential to strengthen the capacity of the Iraqi security authorities. The country's security is in the hands of the Iraqis. The regional security administration is to be handed over to the Iraqi Federal Police. However, the people who are most affected by the horrors and war crimes committed by ISIS are excluded from the decision-making process. Mr President! The long-standing problems in Iraq are reflected in the number of asylum seekers who are still seeking asylum in Europe. According to statistics, Iraqis are the largest group of asylum seekers in Finland. The debate on return issues has been exhausting for a long time. Iraq has repeatedly refused to receive its own citizens and the situation is becoming unsustainable. The True Finns stress that the Return Agreement must be implemented. Nor is it acceptable for Finns who are illegal to be allowed to go free here if they do not voluntarily return to their country of origin. In these cases, they should be detained. Despite the problems, the stabilisation of Iraq is in Finland's own interest. Participation in peacekeeping operations supports Finland’s national defence capability and strengthens partnerships. Finally, Mr President, by participating in the AIR operation, Finland supports the fight against international terrorism and, at the same time, is able to influence the root cause of migration from Iraq. Participation in the ORI is necessary for the time being.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u9	Mr President! Stability and freedom go hand in hand. The more stable a society, the more citizens can enjoy extensive freedoms. Although the world seems to have stopped with the corona virus, we must be aware that we have been heading for more unstable times. Large-scale power competition has increased, poverty and conflict have increased and radicalisation has re-emerged. According to the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, Finland should act to strengthen the stability of societies and the freedoms of its citizens. Finland will best contribute to these goals with other countries. The continuation of Finland’s participation in Operation Inherent Resolve until the end of 2021 is therefore justified. Mr President! Finland has been participating in the ORI since 2015. Our work has made a difference, for the last The areas controlled by ISIS were released in March 2019. Nevertheless, the fight against the ideology of Isis continues. The extreme Islamist view of the world represented by Isis is a threat to our European way of life. The objectives of Isis' ideology include the destruction of the foundations of Western society, freedom and stability. Paris, Nice, Dresden, Vienna. We do not need to be reminded that ISIS cells in the Middle East, Africa and Europe continue to pose a serious threat to regional and global security. The overall approach of the OIR mission is key and its importance in the fight against ISIS cannot be overemphasized. The development of the rule of law, governance and education and employment opportunities in Iraq will create the conditions for the ideologies of ISIS not to be able to take root. This is also important for Finland. In Western democracy, we do not compromise our freedoms. There are limits to our tolerance. We do not tolerate intolerance. The free world will not compromise with those who want to corrupt free democracy. With the OIR participation, Finland contributes to the fight against international terrorism. Mr President! The United States has an important role to play in the ORI operation. By participating, we will promote transatlantic relations that are vital for Finland. President Trump has announced that he will withdraw troops from Iraq, including Iraq, which would undoubtedly reduce the effectiveness of the operation. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party considers that: The security situation in Iraq continues to require the presence of international troops. The future President, Mr Biden, has not yet commented on the presence of the United States in Iraq, but it is essential for the stability and international security of Iraq that the presence of the United States continues. It is important for Finland to be aware of how the continuation of the OR mission in Washington will be seen, which in turn requires good bilateral relations, which should be fostered and developed. Mr President! It is a problem that the return agreement negotiated with Iraq has not progressed. We will help Iraq according to our abilities, but Iraq must also shoulder its responsibilities. It should be recalled that the ORI operation will take place at the request of the Iraqi Government. No country can refuse to take back its own citizens and at the same time demand international assistance. Last year, the Finnish Embassy opened in Baghdad after 29 years of break, which improves the conditions for relations between Finland and Iraq. The Assembly's parliamentary group calls on the Government to take urgent steps to promote a return agreement, both in bilateral negotiations and at EU level. Mr President! Finland’s participation in international operations improves our national defence capability and improves our cooperation capacity. By participating, we contribute to the safety of Finland and Finns. I have great appreciation and gratitude for the Finnish troops who are doing valuable work for security. While sending our people to world crises to promote peaceful solutions, we must ensure that our troops have been properly protected. The security of our forces must be a prerequisite for our participation. Peacekeeping and crisis management continue to be an important part of Finland’s foreign and security policy for over six decades. In military crisis management, the participation of women must be increased, as it contributes to the objectives that are important for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u10	Mr President! International crisis management assumes responsibility for maintaining peace, stability and security, while at the same time developing Defence Forces capabilities, performance and interoperability. These criteria are also well suited to the operation in Iraq, in which we have been involved since its inception. There is already a sixth Iraq report in the debate, which has been submitted to Parliament. The Central Parliamentary Group thanks all those serving and serving in Iraq for the valuable work they have done to strengthen security. Finnish crisis management expertise is valued worldwide. Long-term work has produced results. ISIS is no longer controlled by land, but the security situation still requires the presence of the coalition. In Iraq, instability is exacerbated by a number of factors: Isis, Shiamilitians, Iran's role in the region, disputes over oil revenues, corruption and political instability. The mission has entered the fourth phase with the aim of normalising the security situation. Improving the security situation in Iraq by training its own forces, civilian crisis management, development and humanitarian aid, and the development of vocational education and training in preparation, will create the conditions for a country to move towards a more sustainable future. Mr President! Security is the basis for all developments. That is why the international coalition cannot leave Iraq rashly and the coalition members cannot withdraw unilaterally. The progress achieved would be wasted, terrorism would once again have a breeding ground and uncontrolled migration would increase. The security situation in Iraq is reflected in Europe, as Iraq is Europe's immediate neighbour. In order to achieve sustainable results, the stabilisation of Iraq requires an integrated approach from crisis management and development to diplomacy and joint projects. The international coalition must pursue the Iraq mission consistently and act coherently when planning further steps. The guidelines of the future new US administration will play an important role in the review of the OR and, at the same time, in the preparations for the expansion of the NATO training mission in Iraq next year. Mission NMI will support the reform of the security sector in Iraq in order to enable Iraq to establish sustainable national security structures. Finland’s future guidelines for crisis management have been discussed by the Parliamentary Committee. A broad-based debate on crisis management is necessary to assess the areas and strengths of Finland's participation in international crisis management, where we are most useful for stability and in which operations our national capabilities are best developed. Mr President! Participation in international crisis management is an integral part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. The central parliamentary group supports Finland's continued participation in the Iraq operation with approximately 80 soldiers for the next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u11	Mr President! Thank you to Minister Haavisto for a comprehensive introduction, as well as to the Minister of Defence who has shown readiness for the introduction. The objective of the International Inherent Resolve mission has been to defeat the Isis movement and stabilise Iraq. The operation started in 2014 with the UN mandate with more than 80 different countries. Isis has been defeated from the territories which have been militarily occupied, and the ORI mission is now at a stage where the main focus is the normalisation of the security situation in Iraq. Despite its military defeat, it still has supporters and fighters in Iraq, and the movement has also sought to exploit the martial law of the corona virus. Despite the good developments supported by the OIR mission, the security situation in Iraq is fragile and varied, and it is necessary to continue the presence of the international coalition, in particular in support of the Iraqi security forces and in the development of the security sector in the country. Isis will certainly increase his activity if it is given space and opportunity. It should not be given to a violent and stuffy terrorist movement known for its terrible crimes. Isis has shown during the last autumn that he still has the ability and desire for bloody blows. Finland is also expected to continue in the operation next year with the strength of some 80 soldiers in training and counselling tasks, as well as in headquarters, administration and support tasks. During the entire operation, hundreds of Finns have served in Iraq with the iron craftsmanship known to Finnish soldiers, professionals and reservists alike. There is no doubt that the experience of the operation will also be useful in the development of national defence. Mr President! Since the last OIR report, a great deal has happened in Iraq and neighbouring areas, such as coronapandemia with its economic shocks, the killing of Quds Force Commander Qassim Suleiman in Iraq and the subsequent Iranian missile attacks on international military bases, including Turkey's attack on the Kurdish region of Northern Syria in autumn 2019, the rocket attacks on Shiamilitia Road, the assassination of an Iranian nuclear scientist very recently, the announcement by the United States of a reduction in troops and, of course, the elections in the United States, which will also have implications not only for this American-led operation but also for politics in neighbouring areas. Many of these issues are dealt with in this report as such, but an analysis and description of their impact on the mission in the field or on the security policy situation in the region could be more in-depth. Many, myself, have pointed out that there is room and order for a more active foreign and security policy debate in Parliament. The report on crisis management operations is one of the places to be visited, and from that point of view, it might be appropriate to open and analyse the international context of operations and the prospects for the development of the mission area, as well as the option and effectiveness of participation. Mr President! In accordance with the Government Programme, participation in international crisis management is an important part of Finland’s foreign, security and defence policy. A new report on foreign and security policy states that Finland participates in international cooperation for the protection of peace and human rights and for the development of societies. The goal is a more stable, predictable and secure world. Building a secure world is a long-term and comprehensive work in which it is particularly important to address the root causes of insecurity and conflict, in line with a broad concept of security. Nevertheless, military crisis management is also needed, and it is therefore justified that Finland will continue to work for a more stable Iraq in the ORI mission next year and for as long as this is necessary and as long as the conditions for the success of the international operation are in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u12	Mr President! The security situation in Iraq remains fragile and the overall situation remains unstable. The challenge is to stabilise and rebuild Iraq as a whole. Finland must take international responsibility and participate in the comprehensive stabilisation of Iraq. However, we must ensure that Finland does not become a party to any conflict. According to the Left Alliance, Finland’s reduction in its troops in the ORI operation in 2018 from around 100 soldiers to about 80 soldiers has been a good direction. Finnish troops have participated in training and counselling in Iraq. In the course of the operation, the training of the fighting forces has been transferred to the training of the security forces. It is important to ensure that the team of trainers continues to operate in a coherent manner. During 2020 the focus of training has shifted to advisory activities and has focused on the advice and training of the personnel of the Coordination Centre for the Autonomous Kurdish Region of Iraq for military and sectoral tasks. That too is a good direction. In addition to military crisis management, the Left Alliance considers it important that: Finland also focuses more on other sectors such as reconstruction, civilian crisis management and humanitarian aid. The emphasis should be placed on non-military activities. Mr President! In addition to the OIR mission in Iraq, a NATO training mission in Iraq was launched in autumn 2018, in which Finland participates with one soldier. The report explains that in early 2020 there has been a debate on the roles of international crisis management actors in Iraq. One solution has been to strengthen NATO's mission to take over some training tasks for the OIR mission. This, in turn, would allow for a gradual reduction of the OIR operation while the NATO operation would increase. According to the Left Alliance, it has not been justified to disband Finland's participation in many different operations in the region. The added value of the NATO mission in training the Iraqi security authorities not only for the ORO, but also remains unclear. Nor is the Left Alliance in favour of increasing the NATO operation in Iraq. The ISAF mission in Afghanistan started in a coalition-led period but became a NATO-led crisis management operation very quickly. This must not happen in Iraq. The aim should be to transfer the responsibility for ensuring Iraq's security to its own authorities as soon as possible. Mr President! An important counterforce to the terrible, cruel terrorist organisation ISIS and In Iraq, there have been Kurds in Syria who have been trained by Finland in Iraq. In Northern Iraq, the Kurdish peshmerga forces have done a remarkable job in defeating ISIS militarily. Although the Kurds are not one group and are united in all their objectives, the political and cultural rights of the Kurds must be supported. It is estimated that there are between 25 and 30 million Kurds in Kurdistan, Iraq, Iran, Syria and Turkey. Especially in Iran and Turkey, the Kurds are being oppressed. In addition, Turkey, NATO, is bombarding the Kurds fighting against ISIS for domestic political reasons, both in their own mass and in their neighbouring countries. The international community must condemn Turkey's military action against the Kurds more clearly. The Kurds have supported the countries involved in the ORI, so they must mutually support the Kurds. The Kurds must not be forgotten, but their legitimate struggle for democracy must be supported at all levels. In Finland's foreign policy, the Kurdish question must rise to a larger agenda. Mr President! In October 2019, large-scale demonstrations broke out in Iraq. The protesters demand government action against corruption and better basic services and jobs. There is therefore a great need for credible reconstruction. It is particularly important to help Iraq to create the conditions for democratic governance. Iraq needs a government that takes care of human rights, maintains stability in the country and respects the Constitution and the Kurdish self-government. It must be possible for the Iraqis to hope for a better future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u13	Irade the Talman! Den redogörelse som vi nu diskuterar säger klart att det allmänna säkerhetsläget i Iraq är fortsatt instabilt. Aven om Isis inte längre controlerar några markområden i Iraq har Isis fortfarande anhängare, så kallade "sovande celeler" som snabbt kan activeras, om man tillåter dem göra det. Internationella innser behövs för att stabilisera läget. Det finns plats för det särskilda kunde som Finland har. Ett internationalellt samarbete på alla plan behövs för att trygga världsfreden och motarbeta extremesm i alla former.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u14	Mr President! The situation in Iraq has remained very tense. The country needs stability, an improvement in the overall security situation and economic and economic recovery. Iraq is still both internally explosive and vulnerable at its borders. That is why the country is dependent on foreign aid. But the state of conflict and need for help must not remain permanent. Now is the time to demand real responsibility from all those who have an impact on the balance in the region and also from neighbouring countries in Iraq. At the beginning of the year, Iran responded to the US attacks on Iraqi soil by missile attacks against military bases with international troops. We got away with it. It remains to be seen how the change of President of the United States will affect relations between the countries and the reduction of troops from Iraq. All of this has repercussions on the security situation in the region, as well as Turkey's actions in Northern Iraq. Turkey's activity in the region is already very worrying. Isis' activity has also increased since last year. Mr President! Despite the bad news, however, there is also a genuine desire for peace in the Middle East. The historic Middle East peace agreements brokered by the United States are creating a growing hope. We hope, of course, that agreements can create a good cycle for the whole of the Middle East. People in the region are very tired of ongoing conflicts. This was also confirmed to me by Muhammad al-Issa, Secretary-General of the Islamic World Federation, which I met in Parliament last year. Mr President! The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group supports Finland's continued participation in security sector education cooperation in Iraq in the context of the security situation in the region and other issues mentioned in the report. The report states that by participating in the coalition, Finland supports the reconstruction of Iraq. After all, Finland is known as a peacemaker. On the other hand, it would also be necessary to discuss the stage at which the operation can be disengaged. Mr President! Iraqis are still the largest group of asylum seekers here in Finland. The report states: ‘The aim of Finland is to facilitate return andreturn cooperation arrangements for asylum-seekers Mr President, unfortunately the phrase is also familiar with last year's report. Negotiations on a return agreement continue. The situation in which hundreds of people, even thousands of people who have received negative decisions, remain subject to voluntary return for years is putting a strain on our asylum system. Similarly, the increase in undocumented numbers is humanly unsustainable. It is important to establish an effective return policy with Iraq as soon as the interest rate situation allows. That is why we ask once again: how does the government intend to promote a reception agreement with Iraq? Mr President! The UN Convention on Refugees refers to a person who has been persecuted for race, religion, We are concerned, for example, about the treatment of asylum seekers who have changed their religious beliefs and have been persecuted for this reason. It is important to ensure that no forced return is made if a person threatens to be persecuted or put at risk because of his or her convictions. While we are in favour of a return agreement, it is important that decision-making takes account of the persecution suffered by minorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u15	Mr President, ärade talman! I said a year ago when this same issue was discussed: ‘The security situation in Iraq is difficult and complex. The hatred between the Sunni and Shiites of various religious trends and between the Kurds and Arabs has caused violence in the past.” Unfortunately, nothing has changed for the better in a year. Repeated government crises have followed one another. The economy is in turmoil, and there is no record of stability and long-term sustainability. The security situation in the country remains weak. This hinders investment in the country. The low price of oil is also a problem for a country dependent on exports. This has been further exacerbated by the epidemic of interest rates. Finland has focused its support on the Peshmerga forces in the Autonomous Community of Kurdistan, Iraq. The human rights situation in the Kurdistan region is the best in the country and no systematic violations of justice have been reported in the Peshmerga force or in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. Finland’s support for the Peshmerga troops can therefore be considered successful and there are strong grounds for its continuation. Effectiveness must be rewarded. The Peshmerga troops also carried a significant part of the defeat of ISIS. The Kurds should not be abandoned. It hasn't gotten much better in a year. I identified a key problem in the previous report, and the situation remains broadly similar: ‘At present, the issue of support for the Shia regime’s security forces is an issue oftheymonic power. The wave of asylum seekers targeting Europe and Finland Iraq was different from what we saw before. The majority of Iraqi asylum seekers who came to Europe and Finland were Sunni. Many of them had experienced persecution specifically from Shiite armed groups.” Support for the Iraqi security forces creates a real risk that Finland will, at the same time, provide support for armed Shiite groups integrated into the security forces. There is a real risk that, if we were to assist the Iraqi security forces, we would also be directly involved in these repeated violations of justice. Prior to the granting of the aid: The Iraqi security forces need to be examined whether Finland’s support for potential perpetrators of violations of justice would have a negative impact on the cessation of the cycle of violence. Well, that's the point. This is something that the government must be able to answer. What is the answer of our government? What is the situation with regard to violations of justice, and to what extent have the perpetrators been held responsible? All support for the Central Government and security forces in Iraq must be conditional. There should be no support for the Iraqi regime in any form until it agrees to respect international agreements and accept the citizens of its own country. International cooperation is based on the principle of reciprocity. If Iraq wants to support the reconstruction of the country, it will have to sign a return agreement. Of course, it's not just paper. Sweden has such a return agreement, but it does not work in practice. Bumaka is a bumaka, and the practice is a practice. Finland founded an embassy in Iraq. Has this in any way helped the position and security of Finnish operators in the region? What is the government's assessment of this? Mr Haavisto's point of view would be good to hear about this. The movement now accepts continued support for the Peshmerga Corps. We have great reservations about the support for the Iraqi security forces, because we see potential risks of the aid being counterproductive. Finally, we are absolutely convinced that crisis management must continue. But we are also absolute in the fact that we are calling for a return agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u16	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the parliamentary groups and those who spoke on behalf of the groups for that, I understood, for the very broad support that Finnish crisis management, our participation in the ORF and the continuation of our participation here. Of course there were many details about this, but it is important that behind the Finnish crisis managers there is a united parliament and a united Finland. The work is very difficult, as described here. Circumstances are not at all easy and have not made it easier in recent years either. In his good speech, Mr Kari described how the fight against terrorism in one country is for the benefit of all of us, and this is, of course, the way of thinking in the whole operation, the operation against ISIS, including Iraq. Unfortunately, terrorism knows no borders. The representative and chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niikko, highlighted this complexity of Iraq. When I myself visited there during the corona crisis, the Foreign Minister sighed heavily that they had a country with neighbouring countries: Iran on one corner, Turkey on one corner, there are international troops there, so that in a way that their sovereignty is in many ways under question. And this is certainly the question: when will Iraq be able to control its own territory, but also to control its own territory against this Isis group? He looked like a map between the Peshmerga troops and the Iraqi regime, where he said that this is the area, these are the mountains and the area where Isis is moving and neither the peshmergo nor the Iraqi Government has access. It is a rather sad situation for your own country, just as you said. You also paid great attention to the situation of the siestas and to the question of human rights, which, of course, are extremely much spoken about in Europe. In his good speech, Mrs Kausto raised the question of how the situation might change during the Biden regime and how this transition will take place, while at the same time the President: Trump's administration has decided to reduce the number of troops in that area. This is the big question, and it has not been possible to take a position on this in the Government's statement either, since we do not know exactly how this transition is going to go. There is a problem if the United States unilaterally reports and withdraws troops from it in a situation where others will then only have to react to what is happening. It would be good if international cooperation worked better here. I have also spoken to Mr Pompeo about this issue, but it is difficult to see a clear and clear answer to that. Cooperation itself has worked well bilaterally and I expect it to work under the new US administration. Mr Ovaska took this broad view of security and comprehensiveness into account in his own speech, the way security and development support each other — that is what I myself think — and also the fact that the coalition cannot be left unilaterally. It's an important point of view. Mr Harjanne may have needed a little more depth in this analysis, and I hope that this debate and then the experts you have heard in the Committee on Foreign Affairs will be able to increase that depth further. This spread of ISIS is a very interesting phenomenon, what is happening in northern Africa, in the Sahel region, and now we have news from Mozambique that Mozambique has this movement, we know of Boko Haram, Nigeria, who has similar sympathy, and now, last time in Afghanistan, it is said that some of these attacks have been carried out by ISIS. So this is such a multi-seat terrorist movement and it also calls for a well-coordinated response from the international community. Mr Arhinmäki rightly asked why a good OIR operation would then be transferred to NATO. This is the death of Mr Suleiman and the question of how Iraq reacted to the US-led operation after that. This has been a very difficult debate, and NATO, in a certain way, offered to help whether NATO leadership and European leadership could make this easier, but there is no definitive solution to this. But there was a background here, with this question. Mr Norrback spoke well of these sleeping cells and Mr Östman's role in Turkey here. Mr Harkimo and many others raised this return agreement. The Iraqi Foreign Minister made it very clear that they have now received an internal agreement in the country that they will take all those who have come voluntarily — accept that they will be given some such return money, repatriation money, in that way supported — and all criminals. They are ready to take all the criminals who have committed the crimes. But such other forced returns they are not ready to take yet. This is a very difficult debate between the international community and Iraq. Finland's support, of course, is for a return agreement to be concluded as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u17	Secretary Kaikkonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u18	Mr President! Minister Haavisto has already answered quite a lot of questions. Perhaps those comments came to my own property regarding the security situation and the risk assessment and the self-protection of the troops, which was also mentioned in this couple of speeches. A few more comments on these. The general situation in Iraq: one can say that it continues to be very unstable, but there is a lot of regional variation and sensitivity to rapid change, which means that predictability is quite challenging. Isis is still capable of carrying out terrorist attacks in Iraq. The focus seems to be on the northern regions of the capital Baghdad, where Isis once spread. These attacks mainly target the authorities and soldiers of the Central Iraqi Government and the Autonomous Kurdish region of Iraq, as well as the civilians in the region. In addition, certain Shiite departments and parts of the PMF militaries are attacking the coalition, its logistical transports and diplomats. According to the findings, the United States appears to be a particular target. Isis is probably trying to continue to attack the Iraqi security forces and the Kurdish Peshmerga forces. It is possible that the Shiiamilitian rocket attacks on bases in Iraq will continue in the near future. In general, the main threats to operations are direct fire and indirect fire, as well as explosive and suicide attacks involving vehicles. In addition, there are mines and unexploded ammunition in the terrain. This is the kind of environment they operate in. However, it may be noted that there is no direct threat to the ORO or to the Finnish troops. The health security threat posed by the Korona epidemic continues, although the ORI mission has been able to resume its operations. And for this self-preservation, which is practically what it is there. Finnish soldiers are armed with personal weapons. As a rule, it means an assault rifle or a pistol. In addition, all soldiers have personal protective equipment. Moving between these bases: Of course there is no unnecessary movement, but when you have to move, you move with armoured vehicles and convoys. The perimeter of the bases is protected by the forces of this coalition. Finnish trainers have the ability to protect their own activities. Mr President, I want to tell you quite frankly about these situations, because it is always important that when decisions are taken, it is understood that crisis management operations always involve risks. The best way to do so is not to realise them, but this can sometimes happen, just as there are Finns injured and killed in these things over the decades. That is why it is very important and appreciated that there is broad political support here for: Finland is doing this important work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u19	Thank you. — And now we move on to the stage of debatation. I would ask those representatives who wish to participate in the debate from their own place to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u20	Mr President! Finnish men and women involved in crisis management work are doing invaluable work: an invaluable service for people in crisis situations, but also for their country of origin, Finland and Europe. One aspect of this is the self-protection of the persons involved in the crisis management operation — this was mentioned. For ten years I have been a member of the Committee on Defence, and every time in the Committee on Defence, together with the whole of Parliament, we are paying attention to this same issue, good thing. In this respect, the ministers have already given a very broad answer to the questions raised in this Chamber. With regard to these return agreements or the return process, as we know, Sweden has an agreement but not a process, I too would like and I know that there is broad agreement in this Parliament with the desire that the effectiveness of this return system should be given even greater strength so that international crisis management work can also be justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u21	Mr President! Of course, Minister, I would have liked to raise this issue of self-protection. As you mentioned, we probably have personal protection for the soldier, but then, if we are at the base, even in accommodation, we may not have protection to the extent that some others have, for example, accommodation. If such a pomegranate fire or missiles, such as those from Iran, were fired earlier, such would be a fatal blow to our soldiers if such a thing happened to come to their place where they are staying, and in that sense: Is there any way to improve this matter of self-protection? This would be very important, because we do not, of course, want Finnish soldiers to be put in any danger if such rocket fire continues to occur in the future. Secondly, of course, I would like to raise the issue of how we can make a concrete contribution to this removal of Iraqi asylum seekers who have been given negative asylum.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u22	Mr President! Peacekeeping and crisis management have been an important part of Finland’s foreign and security policy for over six decades. However, Finland alone will not solve the crises, we all understand that, but larger alliances are needed, and the continuation of Finland's participation in the ORI mission until the end of next year is justified. I would like to return to this issue of the return agreement, which has already been taken into account in a great many speeches, and Mr Haavisto has already spoken a little about it in his reply. I would like to ask Minister Haavisto a more specific question: What is the next step in this matter of return negotiations? Is that even known and how, together with the EU, will this issue be promoted and promoted? And I would like to ask the Minister for Defence, Mr Kaikkonen, about an issue which is also the subject of great concern in the Chamber, namely the self-protection of our forces: is self-protection adequately taken care of? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u23	Mr President! I think this is our only fixed-term operation at the moment, now for the sixth time in the debate, and I wonder how you will assess this development next year — if this operation too could possibly be changed to the current one. I would also like to draw attention to this whole crisis management package, which has been discussed a great deal. After all, we carried out an operational and tactical evaluation of the various operations, but, in many cases, perhaps the broad foreign policy objective is perceived to be more sensitive, and I personally feel that as part of crisis management, foreign policy objectives are also combined with that work. That is what we now have a parliamentary committee working on, and I hope that we there – and I am also sitting there – will be able to set objectives and assess this extensive crisis management, certainly military civilian crisis management, but also in terms of operations and foreign policy objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u24	Mr President! It is good to see that there seems to be quite a clear consensus in this Chamber that Finland must also assume its own responsibility for global stability and for making a safe world within the framework of military crisis management. Thank you, ministers, for the good answers. Indeed, Iraq is a complex place where local and regional tensions are plentiful, so there is a great deal of appreciation for the Finns who are building stability there. Like Mr Ovaska, it would have been interesting to hear about this development in relation to the operation in the coming years, but I will continue the question in general for our crisis management: What does recruiting look like at the moment? Do we have motivated experts and departures for military and civilian crisis management at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u25	Mr President! We have trained the Kurdish peshmerga forces, who have responded on behalf of quite a few countries in the fight against this terrible terrorist organisation Isis, and the Kurds deserve great praise for this. At the same time, however, many Kurds feel, quite rightly, that they have been forgotten after the work on behalf of others has been done. Turkey is not only bombing the Kurds in its own country, but also attacking the Kurdish autonomous region of Rojava in the northern part of Syria. You could say it was an illegal attack on another country. Now my question is: What does Finland do? How does Finland raise the Kurdish issue to a larger agenda in its own foreign policy and EU foreign policy? It is extremely important that the Kurds, who have played a key role in this fight, are not forgotten, left behind, but their democratic aspirations are supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u27	Mr President! Although Isis troops have lost their territory in Iraq, the ideology they represent still lives in Iraqi society. Isis once forced many Iraqi families to flee their homes. Now some families have had the opportunity to return to the plains of Nineveh and start rebuilding their lives and communities. However, violence against Christians continues in Iraq: attacks, robberies and even murders continue. People who convert to Muslims often keep their faith secret. The rejection of Islam is considered a great shame. Your family or other members of your community may attack the one who turned you if his faith is revealed. I would like to ask how the Finnish Government and the EU take
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u28	Mr. Speaker! We are all very much in agreement here that it is worthwhile to continue the security operation in Iraq, and I am sure it can be said in such a straightforward manner that the stabilisation of Iraq and the security of Iraq are also in the interests of the security of the Finns and of Europe as a whole, because we are, above all, fighting the terrible terrorism which has taken place in recent years, in particular: Isis has practiced, as well as other destabilising phenomena such as uncontrolled waves of asylum seekers and immigration. President! I would like to ask the corresponding ministers, the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Defence, which prefers to answer two more questions: What measures are being taken in Iraq and the Middle East in order to address these root causes of terrorism and instability? How can we move forward with respect for human rights, democracy, human development, social and cultural development? And I would like to ask, President, when the Foreign Minister mentioned Afghanistan, from which the international community is leaving: is there a threat that Isis will:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u29	Mr President! It is quite true that it is also in Finland's interest to stabilise Iraq, especially because we are a target country for asylum seekers. Iraq is also a strange country, where it is so dangerous that sometimes a negative asylum decision returned to it may even be killed in a playful manner, and then, for example, it will result in a condemnation of Finland in the European Court of Human Rights and a series of months, perhaps years, which will continue in domestic politics, administration and probably in courts. I hope that diplomatic relations between Finland and Iraq can also be used to deal with this issue. As far as return is concerned, as most people here agree, this is also widely recognised at European level. Unfortunately, it does not seem to be helped by wish speeches. There is a need for very wide-ranging cooperation in visa policy, trade policy and development policy, and this has been recognised
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u30	Mr President! All the groups appear to be unanimous in supporting the continuation of the operation. The operation has produced results, but the country's security situation is extremely fragile. The political situation is a mess, and the economy is a mess. However, it is worth continuing the operation, as Isis is constantly trying to find a new foothold in the area. One thing that has been raised here several times remained to be considered in the committee's hearing. Foreign troops are constantly being attacked and attacked in new ways, so more attention needs to be paid to the self-protection of the troops sent there. I would like to ask the ministers — in part, Mr Kaikkonen has already replied: Under these circumstances, how can we safeguard the security of our forces? How is self-protection specifically against rocket attacks organised in practice?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u31	I would like to address Mr Lindtman once again. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u32	Mr President! Finland’s participation The coalition against Isis is a strong indication that we are committed to national cooperation and the fight against terrorism. That is why it is easy for our group to support this report's approach, in which participation in training cooperation in the security sector will continue next year. The key to this is, as has been pointed out in many speeches, to support Iraqi society in order to get that country on its feet. Regarding the return agreement, to which most have referred: Indeed, the Commission's proposal for a common immigration policy was now a key element in making these returns more effective, including the development aid side. How does the Foreign Minister see whether there is now a better chance of the EU finding common ground here?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u33	And now we have time to gather a few five - minute speeches and then the ministers’ answers. — Mr Yrttiaho, please. Let me speak for five minutes at the most.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u34	Mr President! The Government proposes that Finland continue to participate in the so-called training mission in Iraq, this time until the end of 2021. Participation has been extended in the end of the year since Finland participated in the operation, i.e. since 2015. There is no end in sight; on the contrary, it seems that the Marin Government is expanding Finland's participation in the US-led military operation even from now on. The decisions are to be taken at the NATO Ministerial meeting in February 2021. The extension of participation is problematic for two reasons: Firstly, because the Iraqis are very critical of the presence of foreign troops in the country. After all, the Iraqi Parliament called for all foreign soldiers to leave the country at the beginning of this year. The second problem is that the nature of the operation seems to be changing as to why it was set up six years ago. When the U.S.-led alliance was formed in September 14, there was a need to create an anti-ISIS front. Finland joined the coalition that same year. Terrorist organisation Isis had declared that he had established an international Islamic Caliphate in Iraq and Syria. Isis was taking over large areas from both Iraq and Syria, and it seemed possible that ISIS would become a state actor. The United States declared: Isisi was defeated after a terrorist organisation lost its land in Iraq in December 2017. In October 2019 Turkey launched an attack on the Syrian Kurdish region. The attack allowed by Trump’s administration opened up new opportunities for action I'd be in the underground groups. As a result, Isis again attacks almost daily both in Iraq and Syria. However, it is no longer the same threat as it was a few years ago. This report is silent on the effects of the Turkish attack — perhaps because the Kurdish region of Iraq, where the Finns have trained Kurdish fighters, is a close ally not only of the United States but also of Turkey. Year after year, these reports have silenced the problems of training Kurdish fighters. The struggle for power within the Kurdish region and between Kurdish groups, corruption, discrimination against other ethnic groups and problems with the central government, and relations with Turkey and the Kurds operating in the mountainous areas of Iraq are being ignored in silence. Mr President! The change in the nature of the Iraqi operation is implicitly recognised in the report. The report notes: ‘Iraq’s position in the United States and Iran’sinterview has increased significantly as a result of the attacks The process began at the turn of the year, when the use of force between the United States and the Shia militias of Iran increased.’ The Finns are now involved in a changed operation in Iraq, which aims to prevent the strengthening of the Shia parties' positions, which have been described as Iran's minds. The goal that Finland’s foreign policy leadership seems to be pursuing has been set by President Trump’s regime, which, throughout its existence, has been trying to build an alliance against Iran. After all, in Iraq last January, the United States murdered the Iranian general Suleiman by a missile attack ordered by President Trump. Iran responded to that attack. With the attack, the United States sought confrontation with Iran. The possibility of a new war in the Middle East was therefore tangible at that time. Mr Marin's government, Mr Haavisto, first of all, condemned Iran's attacks on Iraq but not the murder of Mr Suleiman, and unfortunately the President of the Republic, Mr Niinistö, did the same. The Haavisto addressed the Iraqi ambassador because the attacks also endangered the safety of Finnish soldiers, but the US ambassador, Haavisto, did not take the interview. Mr President! A few days ago an Iranian scientist was assassinated in Iran. In the world, many have considered it the latest attempt by Israel and the United States to derail the Middle East into a new war. Has anyone at the head of Finland said anything about the attack, ministers, president? At least I have not seen such statements myself. President! The Iraqi military operation in which Finland participates has no UN mandate. Why, then, is Finland participating in the Iraq operation year after year, and why is the mission even to be extended? The real reason why Finns are involved is explained in the key sentence on page 6. It reads: ‘The same thing is being done to promote cooperation with the United States. “ Participation thus promotes military cooperation between Finland and the United States. The expansion of the operation is the will of the United States and NATO. The threat of this expansion is that the operation will become part of an anti-Iran alliance,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u35	Mr President! At that stage of the debate, I asked two questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence, and I look forward to an answer. President! When I came to this debate, I was thinking that Iraq has been in a crisis and confused for my whole adult life. I remember — I guess I was seventeen at the time — when this second Gulf War began or the war in Iraq then George W. In Bush's time a long, long time ago, and ever since then, there has been an unstable situation. It is very sad for the Iraqi people that the country cannot be stabilised and on the road to better development. Surely it is such a big frame for this whole debate: how to get Iraq and the whole Middle East on such a path that people would be good to live there, not to have to go out here in Europe with huge international migrations, and how to end violence and oppression of those who think otherwise and those who believe differently. This is probably the big issue, and I hope that I will hear from the ministers how this human development, democracy, respect for human rights, the rule of law, Iraq and the whole of the Middle East can be managed and these root causes of terrorism and instability can be contained. Mr President! After all, Iraq is an important country for Finland. A pretty big decision was made by the government, the Marin government programme is to set up an embassy in Iraq, for a long time. It is a major contribution to the future, a major contribution from the government, and we also know that there is a lot in Finland — whether we can use the Iraqi diaspora term — asylum seekers, humanitarian immigration from Iraq. The future of Iraq also affects the future of Finland. It's important that the country stabilizes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u36	Mr President! It is good that this debate on foreign and security policy takes place in this Chamber from time to time. A few weeks ago, we and the chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mr Kanerva, gave an interview in which we expressed our concern that over the last few years the debate on foreign and security policy has been rather limited in terms of quantity and often in such a short debate rather than a wider debate. I have wondered several times whether this is one of the reasons why our attitude towards the outside world and its representatives in this republic is often slightly pollinated and even stuffy. In other words, there is also an extremely large political and social order here in the Chamber for the debate on foreign and security policy. There is still a few words to ask and perhaps a few comments. Personally, I see that this military and civilian crisis management is closely linked to development aid, and when the level of development aid in the Chamber is often swordd, should we, as politicians, be better able to understand and understand the part of this development aid as part of this military and civilian crisis management? In order not to be subjected to heavier measures, it makes sense to support the development of societies towards democracy, the rights of girls and women, and so on through development aid, so that we do not have to wear bulletproof vests in the world. As a question to the Foreign Minister about the role of the United States in international military crisis management: the United States is the only superpower that can operate on a large scale in the world, and in these military crisis management operations the role of the United States is not only central, it is the core of the operation. Their air transport capabilities and all their other techniques are superior. If the United States withdrew from this type of operation as the OR is, do you see, as a foreign minister, that Europe would at least have together to put the one that would leave the United States of America out of that area?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u37	I have one last speech to make. I would like to say that we now have a few minutes to hold this debate and the answers of the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u38	Mr President! Mr Kari must be told that development aid is not a magic word. If it were, it would have worked many times in all decades. The EUR 35 million allocated to Iraq since 2014 is not the kind of effort that would be reflected in the reform of the regime or in the reduction of corruption to such an extent that it would be worthwhile to continue to do so. As a result, in their alternative budget, the Finns of Finland today made very large cuts to development aid, and we believe that development aid would be in need of a complete overhaul. But as far as this report on Iraq is concerned, I would like to raise the point that this is intended to bring peace, stability and security to Iraq so that refugees and migration do not grow from there, which is a good objective. But at the same time it must also be pointed out that we must guarantee peace, stability and security in Europe as well as in Finland. When we take national decisions, we must do something about it if illegal persons do not voluntarily agree to return from the country. And especially then, if there are several hundred people in Finland who are potentially a danger to this society, as the protection police have mentioned, then it is absolutely necessary to put such persons in detention. This is not the answer the Finns have received from other parties, why we could not unanimously conclude that everyone who does not voluntarily return to Iraq is being detained. Then the desire to return would certainly increase while in custody. This would be the right kind of patriotic policy, and this, Mr Kari, I also call on the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u39	Then let's move on. Minister Haavisto, 5 minutes, and Minister Kaikkonen, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u40	Mr President! Representative Kurviselle: you spoke about this opening up of the embassy in Iraq and, of course, about the risks it entails, but also about the help it can bring to the Finnish crisis management people there, but also to our trade and our contacts, to our civilian contacts. Iraq has an important role to play. I remember 30 years ago when I was there in Baghdad, more than ten Finns were held hostage, the ambassador had blood bags and sandbags in his own lobby. I thought this was not going to be a good thing, and it was not going to be a good thing. The Gulf War began and another war followed, and then I wondered if the ambassador could be in a more difficult situation when trying to protect the Finns who are being held hostage. This crisis has been going on all these years since Saddam Hussein's time. A very difficult situation, and in that sense, of course, if you do, then in some way the normal life in Iraq has, fortunately, been able to continue after all these crises. Congressman Yrttiaho, have you been convicted or reacted to the death of an Iranian scientist? Yes. The TV chain of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has associated with the condemning reaction of High Representative Borrell and the EU as a whole to such a murder. Mr Purra gave an excellent speech on this whole EU policy on both the issues of return and Iraq's support and so on, and I agree with everything you said. This is not only a matter for Finland, and we have raised both the issue of return and the issue of wider Iraq support systematically at the EU table. The EU should act together and stronger here, and I agree with that. Mr Pelkonen, Mr Kari and others also mentioned the importance of this return agreement, and I agree with all these contributions. Representative Östman raised this role for Christians and Christian minorities in Iraq and elsewhere in that region and asked what Finland's wider policy was in this regard. Of course, we protect and seek to protect those who are persecuted, those who are persecuted for their religion, including Christians. This is an important part of Finland's foreign policy. We were also present at a meeting in Poland where this very persecution of Christians was an important theme. In several speeches Mr Arhinmäki raised the Kurdish question and the very vulnerable position of the Kurds. I have been to Arbil, with the management there, and you asked how Finland has reacted to the attacks and injustices against these Kurds. Finland was among the first to react very strongly in the autumn of 2019 to the Turkish invasion of the Syrian side of the Kurdish region, and I think we were the first to announce an arms embargo from European countries that, in that sense, we have also paid attention to this protection of the Kurds. Mr Kurvis also had a question about the role of Isis in relation to Afghanistan, how to avoid this movement being washed up there. After all, there are peace talks in Doha, and the strange thing that now unites the Taliban and the Afghan Government is anti-Isis. Isis is perceived as an external invader and a comer for Afghanistan's life, which the Taliban does not accept either. This is, of course, difficult to understand from the outside what the differences in all these movements are, but there are differences, and now that the peace agreement in Afghanistan is being concluded, there is therefore agreement that it should be a peace agreement that prevents the expansion of the power of ISIS in Afghanistan, and this objective is, of course, extremely easy for us to support. Otherwise, of course, let us hope for a positive solution to the situation of human rights and women in Afghanistan. Mr Ovaska made an excellent point in reviewing the broader foreign policy objectives in the context of crisis management. I agree that you are doing a very important job in that committee now, considering this wide picture, where we should be, on what basis, and perhaps also, how civil and military crisis management would play even better together and how there would be a continuum between them. It's very important. Mr Kari raised development issues as to how this continuation of peace-keeping, crisis management and development would work. The same answer: it should also have this in the EU, that these are not isolated islands, but are to be played together here, and that is what Finland has been pushing for. Finally, you asked a very difficult question about what would happen, for example, in the case of the Iraq operation if the United States left it entirely — or you could ask the same question about the Afghanistan operation if the United States were not present at all. At the moment, Europe does not have the common capacity to join forces in militaryly very difficult situations, and this military side often rests on NATO structures, and that is where the United States plays an extremely important role. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u41	Thank you. — Minister Kaikkonen, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u42	Mr President! When more than one issue came up here about the security and self-protection of the troops, at least the representatives of Niikko, Pelkonen and Sipilä drew attention to this, it can be said that the Finnish troops are not the main target of the attacks there, but it cannot be ruled out that something could not happen. A few additions to what I said earlier. After all, there are adequate bomb shelters at the base, and additional measures were also taken in response to the rocket attack in January of this year, when Erbil’s base was hit. Even the Finns were not in great danger now, but yet it was close enough to go to the bomb shelter there. Since then, protective structures and shrapnel shields, i.e. so-called shelters have been strengthened, the security and preparedness of this base has been improved, T-walls have been built to compartmentate and protect the entire base, and these T-walls are such reinforced concrete element walls, which are typically used to protect these bases. In addition, the background of external workers will be clarified more closely and more precisely, and measures such as these have also been taken there. There is a great deal of attention to be paid to this issue. Mr Harjanne then asked if there were any departures for the military kriha. That's a very good question. I can tell you straight away that there's not really a lot of people leaving the line right now. So we've always been able to get the people who left for the ops, but there's nothing in the crowd. Economic carrots such as duty-free cars in the past years are no longer available in the same way. We have done something about this too: in fact, was it from the beginning of August or September when we raised the salaries of military kriha staff by about 6%. The money is probably not the main motive for those who leave it, but of course it also matters when people consider whether time like this went into challenging circumstances for a long time. And a few other measures have been taken to increase attractiveness. Mr President! This is actually what I was targeted at. This leaves 30 seconds to go, but perhaps in the end I can wish the President of Parliament a happy name day.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u43	Thank you. Thank you. That's what I'm gonna do to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u44	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 45 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u45	Mr President! With this bill, we will reduce the administrative red tape and the cost of small nutrition companies by simplifying the accounting obligations relating to obtaining compensation for the April-May period of this year. There would no longer be any obligation to draw up specific financial statements from the results of the retention period and the reference period, so that the small business would avoid the additional costs of drawing up them and auditing them, which may be significant compared to the credit received. This relief would be carried out in full legal terms and would not require a change to the appropriations approved in the budget to support nutritionists by the existing law. The draft law is based on the relaxation made by the Commission in EU State aid rules following the adoption of the current law. When the law on support for the reemployment of nutritionists and compensation for operating restrictions was enacted, it was based on the strong will of the Parliament to compensate companies in a reasonable manner for the fact that customer premises were imposed on the basis of a corona pandemic to be held in April-May. In July to August of this year, the KEHA Centre implemented a public contribution under the law, in which, without application — i.e. on the basis of direct tax information — a total of 7016 nutrition companies received compensation of around EUR 74 million. The majority of these companies were small-sized. However, for all, this procedure was not possible due to the lack of tax information. In addition, the KEHA Centre has paid around EUR 16 million on an application basis by the end of October. Thus, a total compensation of around EUR 90 million has been made. On a company-by-company basis, the amount of compensation was directly affected by the decrease in sales compared to the comparison period. As a reasonable compensation, the law provided for a maximum of 15 per cent of the decrease in sales. In accordance with the will of the Parliament, compensation was allocated to all nutrition companies which were subject to the obligation of retention. Even companies which had been in difficulty before the corona epidemic were excluded from the law for the purpose of achieving equal treatment. Due to the scope of application, the law was attached to a specific provision in the EU State aid framework, which also allows compensation to an undertaking already in difficulty in the case of a natural disaster or an exceptional occurrence such as this. The relevant EU rule — Article 107(2b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union — has been used in other Member States to support, inter alia, national airlines during the period of flight bans caused by the volcanic eruption. Compensation granted under the law for attaching to this article shall be subject to the ex post audit required by the European Commission, which is referred to as the ‘exercise-based restriction’. Its purpose is to cut, where appropriate, the credit up to the amount at which the loss accumulated during the retention period exceeds the loss for the reference period. Although this type of cutter is only exceptionally implemented, it imposes a significant administrative burden and costs on each of the nutrition companies receiving compensation. In addition to the normal financial statements, exceptional accounting measures are necessary to carry out the cut-off control. For both the retention period and the reference period, the nutrition company shall draw up profit and loss accounts on a seasonal basis in order to ensure the fulfilment of the materialisation-based restriction as required by law. These seasonal calculations are by no means self-imposed from accounting systems, automatically, but the cutter requires a case-by-case calculation to be made so that the items belonging to the periods are taken into account in accordance with the provisions. In addition, the auditor shall take a position on the implementation of the restriction in his audit report. These specific accounting activities, as well as the certification of the auditor, which are required by the specific limitation per execution, entail costs which are not covered by the contracts between accounting firms and auditors and are therefore to be charged to the nutrition companies as separate fees. On the other hand, there is no legal minimum level for compensation, since it is justified by all the nutritionists who have been subject to this obligation of retention. Thus, in the event that the credit is of low value, it may be possible that the individual premiums referred to above are even higher than the compensation received by the company. The law itself allows the nutrition company to return the compensation to the KEHA Centre before the financial statements are confirmed and thus avoid the costs of the outcome-based review. This administrative burden and cost is the sole result of the EU State aid rule and in no way the result of the reasonable compensation required by Parliament. However, since the entry into force of this law, the EU Commission has, by means of a communication published, amended the State aid framework so that the possibility of access to aid is extended to small enterprises in difficulty even before the Coronation pandemic, without the aid being subject to such imputable restrictions as under this aid scheme under Article 107(2b), which is now the basis of the Finnish Credit Code. In view of the cost burden on a small company resulting from this outcome-based examination, which may be very significant, the present proposal puts the compensation procedure for small and micro-nutrients in accordance with the will of Parliament within the limits of the abovementioned Commission decision. The Commission will not allow this relief for smaller companies. Furthermore, since a small undertaking would no longer be subject to a recovery-based restriction, the verification of which requires this substantial technical work of calculation, there would be no need for a specific financial reporting information on the implementation of that restriction. Since the provision proposed would not interfere with the conditions for granting and calculation, the compensation would have been granted on a statutory basis if the provisions laid down in the proposal had already been included in the law at the time of its entry into force in May. The proposed relief does not mean that the conditions for granting compensation are re-processed at the KEHA centre and does not require any specific measures from the nutrition company itself in order to be eligible for relief. A nutrition company should simply state in its financial statements that it is part of the small enterprises referred to in the proposal. The relief provided for in the proposal also extends to those small nutrition companies for which compensation has already been granted. This entry into force provision would also allow the reimbursement of compensation already paid under the cut-off rule on application to a small enterprise whose financial statements were drawn up before the entry into force of the proposed amendment of the law. The proposal does not mean a change in the appropriations that have already been approved in the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u46	Ärade Herr Talman! Tack till regeringen för det ox lagförslaget. I förslaget förreslås att kostnadsbelastningen för små förplägnadsföretag, alltså restauranter, lindras genom att förfarandet för beräkning avgottgörelse förenklas. Likaså lindras kraven på bokslutsinformation, vilket lättar de återkravsskyldigheter som Europeiska Commissionen förutsätter Jämfört med den gällande lagen. Syftet med propositionen är att lätta på den administrativa bördan för samma företag när det gäller särskilda calkylmässiga förpliktelser, och minska den kostnadsbelastning som dessa medför för små restaurangföretag med beaktande av attgotgörelsen kan vara rätttt liten i förhållande till kostnaderna för de särskilda bokföringstekniika åtgärderna och för revisionnen, vilkett minister också lyfte fram. Det är är mycket vistas. Många restauranter, kaféer och barer har kämmat för sin överlevnad under coronapandemin. En restaurantföretagare är dock inte alltid expert på administration utan på det mat- och dryckeshantverk eller hon gör. Summorna är i dessa fall små och de går till många mikrogföretag med små resurser för administration — ändringen är således motiverad. Förplägnadsrörelserna är i många fall personalliga livsverk och innefattar också många arbetsplatser. Restaurangstödet har variety mycket viktigt effect den stänning av verksamheten som regeringen beslöt om på grund av coronapandemin och för att stoppa des smittspridning i våras. Det är välkommett att detta stöd också gällt på Åland och stött åländska restaurangföretagare. All hjälp är viktig för att företagen ska överlevava pandemin och det är viktigt att man som consensus fortsätter stödja sina lokala restauranger och företag på de ätt man kan så att de finns kvar också effecter den iär krisen. Så tack till regeringen för det rai lagförslaget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u47	Mr President! This proposal will reduce the administrative burden and cut red tape in connection with this so-called restaurant subsidy, which was regulated because of the need to restrict the activities of restaurants due to the corona pandemic. I'm sure this is an excellent performance. In my view, reducing all forms of unnecessary bureaucracy is a very good thing, especially in this situation, where catering companies are in the throes of the corona. They no longer need any more pressure and stress, and the performance itself is certainly very good. Mr President! Unfortunately, we are living in the rising wave of the second wave of the corona. Unfortunately, perhaps the crest has not yet been seen, but will perhaps be seen in the coming weeks if this happens. This disease has been surprising and it is difficult to anticipate its stages, but experts have told us that perhaps in the coming weeks, unfortunately during Christmas or under Christmas, we see the peak of this so-called second wave. After all, there is now a public debate about whether restaurants should be closed down more strongly and about restricting the activities of restaurants in order to prevent the spread of the disease. After all, we have a good stairway on how to deal with restaurants, depending on whether the area is in the initial, accelerated or dispersal phase of the corona. For example, restrictions have now been imposed on customer places, and these have certainly been quite justified measures, such as difficult ones for the restaurant industry. On my own behalf — and I dare say that perhaps on behalf of the centre anyway — we do not, however, support any restrictions on restaurant activities for 'certainty' reasons. It may be that we are still going to have to intervene more strongly than is currently being addressed, but solutions that impose new restrictions on the restaurant sector must be based on an epidemiological, medical and scientific assessment and not on the fact that restaurants must now be closed because team sport has been caught or otherwise. Such moral grounds or such a panic, panic-based arguments should not, in my opinion, be made for restaurant restrictions. Restaurants and tourism are really, really in trouble in Finland at the moment. We already know that not all companies can continue to operate, and now we must be careful not to introduce medicines that are tougher than the disease itself and cause such human damage that is not necessary. Let us monitor the situation and try to find ways to help the restaurant industry in this very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u48	Mr President! Actually, I'd like to send my regards to the government. Mr Kurvis had a good speech about this situation. We also have specific legislative proposals concerning companies, their obligations, financing or, for example, bankruptcy law. There's already a third of them coming. Similarly, today we have a law on the collection of claims, which then applies again to tradable collection. Then we also have changes in enforcement, which are temporary. They have all been tasks for the sake of the interest rate and temporary. Actually, I could use an overall assessment. We now have, on a very sleek basis, these legislations brought to Parliament from various ministries, as is, of course, the preparation, and the committees and parliaments are beginning to have difficulty in understanding which law is proportionate and the consideration of appropriateness has been done with sufficient care, because they are always done only on a sleek basis when it comes to the very draft of the law. And when there are many legislative proposals in the same direction, what does it do with credit society, what does it do with corporate solvency, access to information? And as far as this corona is concerned, there must be a lot of companies who want to act responsibly and so on, but there is still their own livelihood and bread, so that when we go next year to prepare some kind of subsidies for companies, if only they were a little better targeted than the last time. At first, there was that groping. I have seen now that the Constitutional Committee adopted a report at the beginning of October on Parliament's right to information, and there was quite a lot of criticism about the level of drafting legislation and Parliament's right to information. Perhaps now it would be a good time to stop and think about how we would have high-quality drafting of the law so that we would not at least make things worse with bad drafting of the law in this house. Such greetings from the whole, so that it will be easier to make decisions here too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u49	President! Mr Kurvinen raised the point that medicines should not be tougher than the disease itself. Well, that's a good thing to say. Today, for example, Japan has become suicide statistics. They're recording these in real time. For a long time, suicides have been falling, but now, at the time of the corona, they have gone up quite steeply. In other words, medicines must not be harder than the disease itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u50	I saw the conversation... - Excuse me, Congressman Kurvinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u51	Mr. Speaker! I know that you are an effective player and you would have liked us to have made progress, but please allow me to take the floor when Mr Koponen spoke so well. Personally, I have wondered that we should try to live as normally as possible in terms of the restrictions imposed by the corona, as we do here in Parliament: we have masks on our faces, gloves, and yet parliamentary action continues. And I don't think we should stop going to restaurants. Really great innovations — take away food, book a nightclub for your friends, that is, things like great — are happening in the market. Entrepreneurs are creative people, and in the free sector there is creativity and things like this have happened. I think it would be a good idea for us to use the services of the tourism and restaurant industry responsibly and not to lock ourselves in our own home, our own flat. Representative Koponen raised these effects of corona on people's mental endurance, the international results from Japan. I don't have the statistics, but I've heard some pretty disturbing messages from professionals that people are starting to hit mental endurance with this corona. In this, too, we should all consider how — for example, I take a group like the students who have moved to another place, and all the events and making new friends have gone behind the screens and there is no student community — even if they are supported mentally, because the corona crisis is not just a health crisis, yes, it is a social crisis that pervades society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u52	Mr President! Good speeches were made here, and I would just like to say with enthusiasm that this is precisely the case that we have a corona situation which is not only health, it is economic, it is social, and that is why we should always be talking about looking at the ball, now look at the ball. Now we have to look a lot at that corona ball, and of course we have to deal with it too, but we do have a lot bigger problems, and if we don't do this well, we'll have bigger problems. If you think about what's going on there: there's financial problems, there's real loneliness, mental health problems, there's more child protection reports, domestic violence, street violence, whatever. This is very important, for example, that such proposals are now being brought here, which are specifically tailored and which support the point that normal life can continue. Of course, we all have to take care of it for ourselves, but of course we decision-makers have to make sure that we really look at the right ball and take care of the corona, learn to live with it, because this is going to take some time to get rid of it, and we never know how long it will be in this society, changing its form as a virus. All in all, however, we really need to think about all this, to which Mr Koponen referred, namely that the treatment is not more serious than the disease. Because these effects are so strong, there should now be a debate very quickly about what we should do. Personally, I believe that before Christmas, before we leave here, we should discuss the topical debate here in the Chamber, together with all the Members of Parliament, how to deal with the future. Now we are working in those committees, we are doing a lot to get the draft budget and these corona laws moving forward, but now we should look a long way ahead. February comes, it's quite a long time, and it can happen in January of all things. That is why there should be a precise plan, and it must be parliamentary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u53	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral and the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u54	Madam President! School travel support enables many students to study especially in sparsely populated areas. Our State of Education wants to ensure that all young people can study on an equal footing regardless of their place of residence and wealth. The number and expenditure of recipients of school travel support has been lower in autumn 2020 than in autumn 2019. In August 2020 there have been 1280 fewer recipients of school travel support, 1850 fewer in September and 2830 fewer in October than in the corresponding months in 2019. In turn, the total amount of school travel subsidy expenditure has been around EUR 900000 less than in 2019 during the period considered. The situation should be examined, analysed and resolved in a fair manner where necessary. The Government’s proposal temporarily amends the School Travel Support Act due to restrictions on the corona epidemic and the exceptional educational arrangements resulting therefrom. The School Travel Support Act provides for the grant of support for the costs of daily school travel between the student's home and the educational institution for students crossing the current compulsory school age. The purpose of the school travel subsidy is to compensate, as a general rule, for the daily school travel costs of a student studying. The student can receive school travel support for at least 10 kilometres of school travel, primarily by public transport or by school transport. It should be remembered that there is no school transport or public transport everywhere. If the student cannot use public transport or school transport, he or she can receive support for his or her own method of transport, such as driving his or her own car. This support is of great importance in a sparsely populated area, for example, when a young person wants to go to school from home and is not yet ready to move away from home. When schools move to remote education again as the second wave of the corona accelerates, or possibly at some point in the combination of distance and local education, the student may be deprived of the much needed school travel allowance if he/she does not have enough school trips between home and educational institution to receive the school travel allowance within a week and a month. Of course, changes in education arrangements can only apply to students in a particular region or only to a particular institution or field of education or to individual students. Thus, it is likely that a larger proportion of students do not need to travel regularly between home and school due to distance learning arrangements, but school travel may incur costs. The Government's proposal ensures support for the costs of student school trips. A provision will be introduced which will temporarily make the conditions for granting school travel aid more flexible. The number and timing of school trips may be derogated from when the number of student's daily school trips has decreased due to changes in teaching arrangements related to the corona epidemic. The grant of the aid would be subject to the condition that students eligible for school travel support have at least eight eligible back-up journeys per calendar month. On the basis of the proposed provision, a student who, even in normal circumstances, does not have daily school trips according to the original criteria would not be entitled to the aid. The granting of travel support would continue to be conditional on a long school journey and an appropriate method of travel to be determined taking into account the monthly regular costs of travel, the possibility for students to use public transport and the continuity of studies. The law should enter into force as soon as possible and be in force until the end of July. Mr President! I support the government's proposal. In the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, we can look at the details in more detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u55	Madam President! In order to ensure support for school travel costs for students, it is proposed to add an exemption provision to the School Travel Support Act, which would temporarily make the conditions for granting school travel support more flexible. Under the proposed provision, there would be no restriction on the location of eligible trips during the calendar month. The proposal does not increase government expenditure on school travel support and has no significant impact on the implementation of school travel support in Kela. In addition to these, the feedback requested from the draft presentation was good and the changes were considered necessary and justified for the student. That is why I support the government's proposal. Mr President! At present, according to the School Travel Support Act, students can receive school travel support if the following three conditions are met: school travel is at least 10 kilometres in one direction, costing more than EUR 54 per month, and school travel takes at least seven one-way trips per week. It is good to note, therefore, that this last condition is not met by all students in vocational education, even under normal conditions because of the decrease in local education. Already at the beginning of the year, before the corona pandemic, I have proposed in my initiative to make the conditions for school travel aid more flexible. This would also be important for children of divorced families living at two different addresses.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u56	Mr President! This will come to the Committee on Education from now on. All I have to say is what is at stake here, which is why it is proposed to amend the school travel subsidy law temporarily because of the restrictions on covid-19 and the exceptional educational arrangements that result from it. Therefore, in order to ensure support for school travel costs for students, it is proposed that a provision be made in the School Travel Support Act to temporarily make the conditions for granting school travel aid more flexible. According to the proposal, students eligible for school travel support would be required to have a minimum of 8 return trips per calendar month eligible for school travel allowance if the number of student's daily school trips has decreased due to changes in the teaching arrangements related to the covid-19 epidemic. Indeed, when you have moved to remote education, there will not be as many trips as Kela now requires. On the basis of Article 3(3) of the School Travel Assistance Act, students may receive school travel allowance if they have at least 7 one-way school trips per week. In practice, the student must therefore have eligible trips at least four days a week. If the student's travel to an educational institution or to a work place that serves as a learning environment changes so that he/she travels less than 7 trips a week, the student is no longer entitled to this school travel allowance. Now, then, this should be made more flexible, and this is where Kela is involved, and it is precisely the change in Kela's arrangements that is needed. I very much welcome the fact that this flexibility is now being made, because students are in a difficult situation here, provided that such a school travel subsidy law is maintained. It is a good thing that this is done, but we are dealing with it in that committee. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u57	Madam Speaker! The content of this bill has already been well recounted here, but let us review it again here from the corner of the Social Democrats. There is a government proposal for a law on the temporary amendment of the School Travel Subsidy Act, and this is therefore linked to the corona pandemic and the resulting exceptional teaching arrangements. The proposal therefore makes the conditions for granting school travel aid more flexible. There is a need to make the conditions for granting school travel support more flexible if and now, because of exceptional educational arrangements, the need for students covered by school travel support to travel regularly between home and educational institution is reduced, but there is still a cost of school travel. A student eligible for school travel allowance is required to have a minimum of 8 return journeys eligible for school travel support in a calendar month if the number of student's daily school trips has decreased due to changes in teaching arrangements related to the covid-19 epidemic. This is a good, necessary presentation in this situation. Exceptional times call for flexibility in many ways, and a number of similar legislative proposals and regulations have been decided in this House this year — necessary and fair, such as this provision now added to the School Travel Support Act, which will then be reviewed by the Committee on Education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u58	Madam President! This is therefore, as has been said in this debate, the amendment of the school travel subsidy law. These are the government's corona proposals, I could say this when distance education has been moved, and even today we move and return to Finland on a daily basis because of the corona. This is intended to make the payment of school travel aid more flexible — certainly very sensible. It is good that there will be no unreasonable situations for young people and their families. Mr President! This is therefore a question of the support paid by Kela to people who are in post-basic education, most typically in upper secondary and vocational education. All this school travel support is very important because of cultural equality, because we have the same opportunities for all young people in Finland to train themselves according to their own inclinations and gifts, whether they live in the city centre or in the provinces or even in sparsely populated regions and so-called sparsely populated areas. This applies to the less populated regions and rural areas in Finland, as a rule very strongly. Educational equality is at the heart of equality of opportunity. In the centre, we want to continue to insist that education is not concentrated, including upper secondary and vocational education. There we will certainly not have easy years — the age groups have decreased — but we still attach great importance to the rural upper secondary school network and also to the fact that we have smaller vocational institutions. The Ministry of Education has now turned the wind: there will no longer be pressure on educational institutions to join together, as, unfortunately, during the last parliamentary term, there was such pressure from the Ministry of Education for some reason, and this will be maintained. Mr President! This school travel allowance enables us to achieve such a goal that we in the centre want to hold on to, that is, that we should keep as many young people as possible, or preferably almost all young people, to be able to complete a second degree if they wish, to be able to complete a secondary school or vocational education from home, and this support that Kela pays is a tool for it, and it is good that it is also kept up to date in the middle of the corona.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u59	Mr President! That is where Mr Kurvinen went for a little shot, for a little larger spheres, when you said that this was what it was last season. Well, let's take a look at this extension of your compulsory education: it only pays the nearest one of these travel expenses. I do not think you should talk about this at all now, given what you are doing about this extension of the compulsory education law in relation to school travel. In fact, we believe that the school network should be adequate, but we also need to think about the quality — we should not maintain the walls. And I'm worried about our high school network. Upper secondary school is of great importance in secondary education, of enormous importance. At present, municipalities are paying up to 60% of it and the state is paying 40% of it. We won't have a high-quality high school network if we don't get more resources there. This is one of the points worth thinking about if we are to think about new universities: yes, we also need to make the quality of the way in which these students are fed to them. In other words, high-quality secondary education, from which we can then go to higher education, and that is what we now need primarily money for. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u60	Madam President! It's horse sports popular over there in my and Congressman Risiko's homeland in South Ostrobothnia. Perhaps at times it is a good idea to go a little further in the field of education policy, education policy, and go over these basics. Mr Risikko is certainly absolutely right that this secondary education, compulsory education, is not an easy thing, and I know that you have been doing a very long day and good work in the committee that we chair there. We will try to get the best possible cooperation between the Government and Parliament. I believe, however, that we all agree with the objective that every young person needs a degree: so to speak, from the school base or, more modernly, from the basic school base, there will no longer be any success in working life. Yes, taking care of vocational education and training, upper secondary school for all young people in Finland, is a long run, above all, creating equality of opportunity, but also supporting our competitiveness and employment and our economic goals. President! Too much history should not be repeated here. After all, this Chamber is a little bit of a place where it suddenly goes to the point that who did during what parliamentary term, but I say that we have had a hard speech about concentrating on education policy in the past. Feedback from smaller vocational institutions and also from smaller polytechnics and universities has been that during the last parliamentary term and a little earlier, when you have gone to the Ministry of Education to discuss, the first question has been who you are joining together with. It has not been seen that a small independent institution can survive. President! Now that we are dealing with the second stage in particular, I repeat the basic idea of our centerers: Some young people — I also have young people in the circle — have gone to other places to study at the age of 16. It's all right, but I should offer every young person the chance that their second degree, amis or high school, can be visited from home. That's the top priority for us downtown. Yes, this distance learning and these network connections create opportunities. I think that through this distance education we will be able to achieve precisely this quality of education and, in the future, to see what Mr Risiko was really worried about. The future is so wild that we can't all imagine it when you can get a course for your home laptop and tablet. I think that these distance learning will in any case increase the educational equality of young people, for example in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u61	I would like to say at this point that we are discussing a school travel subsidy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u62	Mr President! Indeed, a school travel subsidy is being discussed, and I think it is very important that we discuss the fact that those school trips do not go too far. That is why we need a comprehensive network, but it is a bit the same as when we mess up, that we still have to choose whether it is a quality or a journey. I personally believe that we should invest in that quality, but we must keep the network as good as possible, of course, so that it does not get too long for those journeys. In my opinion, this is a good law in the sense that it takes account of this covid situation, and I definitely believe it. I would simply say to Mr Kurvise, when you insinuated specifically in your speech last season, that it is centralized: I myself have worked in vocational training and I know that there has always been the reflection on where the money will be enough, and you also happened to be the Prime Minister's party last season, which is why I do not think it is a great deal to wear a jacket here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u63	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 11/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Mr Risikko, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u64	Mr President! Indeed, this is the government's proposal for legislation on two-year pre-school education and the amendment of the early childhood education law. The purpose of the experiment proposed in the Government proposal is to obtain evidence-based information for the development of children's learning and pre-school education. The purpose of the experiment is to provide information on the decision-making process on the national implementation of two-year pre-school education, i.e. the extension of pre-school education to the entire five-year-old age group. According to the Government's proposal, the aim of the experiment is to strengthen educational equality by, among other things, increasing the participation of children aged five in planned education and teaching activities, improving the quality and effectiveness of pre-school education, exploring further education between pre-school and primary education, family service choices and municipal practices, and to obtain information on the impact of two-year pre-school education on children's development and learning conditions, social skills and the formation of a healthy self-esteem. The Education Committee welcomes the intention to extend pre-school education to two years and considers the proposed experiment to be an important step towards achieving this objective. In 2018, around 74 per cent of children aged 1 to 6 have been in early childhood education in Finland. 88.6 per cent of children aged five have participated in early childhood education. In Finland, the participation rate of children in early childhood education is clearly lower than in other Nordic countries and most OECD countries. However, the participation rate will increase significantly when the child reaches the pre-school age, as pre-school education accounts for approximately 99 per cent of the age group of six-year-olds. The Education Committee supports measures to increase the participation rate in early childhood education. For example, early early early childhood education has a positive impact on the learning outcomes of children in the first school classes. The Committee on Education and Training considers it important that the experiment can contribute to the transition towards a more integrated learning path and that high-quality research and experience on good practice in the development of pre- and initial education are gathered in the context of the experiment. The experiment will take into account the need for full - time care and care of children. Part-time work and work of guardians at different times and living with children alternately with different parents is quite common. This brings challenges to the organisation of pre-school education. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media considers it important that research into the experiment should also provide information on these issues relating to the organisation of pre-school education. The goal is that around 10,000 children will take part in the two-year pre-school experiment. The experiment is part of the Justice to learn development programme to improve the quality and equality of early childhood education and basic education, with a total budget of EUR 30 million. The cost of the experiment for municipalities will be reimbursed in full. In addition, the proposal proposes to amend the Act on early childhood education in order to diversify the technical means of providing information on early childhood education. Several forms of donation would facilitate pilot sampling, monitoring, evaluation and research. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs supports this proposal. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Education considers that the Government's proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal with comments and amendments. Prime Minister Sipilä's Government has at one time launched an experiment on the free early childhood education of five-year-olds since the beginning of August 2018. The aim of the experiment has been to increase the participation rate of early childhood education and thus to promote equality in education. The experiment has originally had to last a year, but the government has decided to continue the experiment for another trial period, and the government of Prime Minister Marin has decided to continue the experiment for another third period, from August 2020 to July 2021. The first evaluation report on the experiment was published in autumn 2019. According to the survey, the participation rate of children in early childhood education has increased as a result of the experiment. In the pilot municipalities, service guidance has become more efficient and new forms of work have been developed for service guidance. The experience of the administrators of the experiment has also been positive. The Committee notes that, according to the report, the free provision of early childhood education alone does not, however, provide an incentive to increase the participation rate if the guardians feel dissatisfied with the quality of early childhood education, for example if children are perceived to be too large or there is a high turnover in the staff. This is why it is important to invest in the development of quality in early childhood education. We are also dealing here with the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which we have therefore received, and we have taken it into account in the need for legislative changes. We deal with participation in the experiment in detail and also write about the content of pre-school education. I would like to draw your attention to the following paragraph: ‘The committee welcomes the fact that the test will be carried out They should highlight the requirements of pedagogy suitable for the ages of 4 to 5 and the transitions and continuums between early childhood education and pre-school education. For example, the importance of play for learning is emphasised in preschool education.” We also take a position on the three-step support, as the experiment involves children aged between 4 and 5 coming within the scope of the three-step support provided for in the Basic Education Act. The committee notes that the same provisions apply to three-tier aid as to one-year pre-school education. The organisation of support is specified both in one year's pre-school education and in an appropriate way in the curricula and local curricula. During the trial, particular attention must be paid to the adequacy and timeliness of the services provided to the youngest, as well as to the need to improve the regulation of support during the experiment. We are also taking a stand in this report on the eligibility of teachers, and then we were talking a lot about the information to be given about this experiment, and that is to say it is precisely about informing the guardians of the experiment in the same context as they are informed of their membership of the test group and the possibility of applying for a two-year period of pre-school education for the child. Carers other than those on trial also need sufficient information on what is at stake here and why their child may not be involved in it. We also drew attention to the assessment of the impact on children, because now that we are going to carry out scientific research on this, we must at the same time make a truly continuous, diverse assessment of the impact on children. The impact assessment of children shall include a wide range of methods to analyse the opinions of all children involved in the experiment and take them into account in the decision-making process both during and after the experiment. Enabling children to participate is a key part of ensuring the rights of the child and the child’s best interests. According to a report received by the committee, the follow-up study will be subject to an ethical ex-ante evaluation, as is the case with good research practice. Mr President! The committee's proposal for a decision is for Parliament to accept the second bill contained in Government proposal 149/2020 without amendment and for Parliament to adopt the first bill included in Government proposal 149/2020. This report contains an objection with regard to the rejection proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u65	Madam President! Like our Chairman of the Committee on Culture The Risiko said that this bill was very welcome in committee. Preschool education has a long history, and the experiment to which Risikko referred from the time of Sipilä's government brought us positive results. The Basic Education Act obliges the child to participate in one year’s pre-school education or other activities that achieve the objectives of pre-school education. The aim is to promote the development and learning conditions of children and to strengthen their social skills and healthy self-esteem through play and positive learning experiences. This two-year pre-school experiment is arranged for two age groups. The experiment will be monitored and evaluated and, as the Committee on Education and Rural Development points out, a child impact assessment should be carried out. The project has a budget of EUR 30 million and is aimed at involving some 10,000 children. The objectives are good: equality in education, increasing it and raising the level of participation. Participation in planned educational and educational activities will balance the learning gap between children, which is a good situation at the beginning of the school path. If necessary, children can be brought more quickly within the scope of support. There will be a clear continuum for basic education, and the support, the three-step support that is being implemented in basic education, must also be clearly involved in this experiment. There is also a review of the various ways in which the service is organised and of the service choices of the guardians, as well as an improvement in the learning of early basic skills. All of this contributes to the development and learning of the child, strengthens the social skills of children, healthy self-esteem when children are allowed to play and have positive learning experiences. When we develop early childhood education, pre-school education and basic education as a whole, we need researched information to create guidelines for the future. A trial register, managed by the Finnish National Board of Education, will be established for the purpose of the experiment, in which the data of the children of the experimental and control group will be stored. The follow-up study examines arrangements, levels of participation and practices and carries out a study on the impact on basic skills in children. It is important that we receive an interim report and a follow-up study to support our decision-making. Mr President! The rate of participation of children in early childhood education is clearly lower in Finland than in other Nordic countries and several OECD countries. According to the THL statistical report, at the end of 2017, 85 per cent of the age group of 5 year olds participated in early childhood education. However, the rate of participation will increase significantly when the child reaches the pre-school age, as pre-school education accounts for approximately 99% of the age group of 6 years. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs supports measures to increase the level of participation in early childhood education. Participation in early childhood education has a positive impact on the learning outcomes of children in the first schools. The growing importance of early childhood education and the increasing participation in early childhood education are therefore clear international trends. The models of the early childhood education system are diverse internationally, and there is no one good model. Therefore, there are no ready-made solutions that will serve as a model for us. That is why experimenting and clear study and evaluation are needed in order to make wise decisions in the construction of a child-friendly Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u66	Mr President! A small child rejoices when he has the opportunity to learn something new and also to feel proud of his or her knowledge. Self-confidence and self-esteem grow together with the knowledge and success of the child. When we want to raise skilled and well - being children, we need to think about good and inspiring ways to learn and teach new things. The prerequisites for learning must be created as far as possible before school age, and the Finnish education and training system still needs to be developed. In its report, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media has highlighted the importance of improving the quality of early childhood education. The impact assessment of children, the preparation of curricula and the production of high-quality research data alongside the two-year early childhood education experiment will build an important knowledge base for the future. Today, as many as 20 percent of children aged five are completely out of early childhood education. There are several reasons for this, but in spite of all these, learning the right of the child should be at the heart of everything. Strong and high-quality pedagogical skills and support in early childhood education should be better exploited and made available to each child and family. Now, with a two - year preschool experiment, some 10,000 five - year - old children will be admitted to three - step support and student care. It will enable children in need to be better identified and, above all, more timely. Timely definition of the need for support as well as the support for learning started will compensate for the differences in subsequent learning as studied. This also has a significant impact on the child’s overall well-being and the development of self-image. The earlier we recognize the challenges of learning, the easier it will be for us to grasp them, and the lower we build the joint stages of the school path, the easier it will be for each child to pass them. The new curriculum focuses on children. They are taught the development stages of five-year-olds, understanding in a safe learning environment, supported by, among other things, singing, play and joint action. Happiness is learning the joy of learning. Mr President! A two-year preschool is an opportunity. We can further reduce the differences in learning, create equality in education and support municipalities in the development of early childhood education. For this government, children are the strength and we want to invest in them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u67	Madam President! The Finnish Parliament Group believes that, in view of the challenging staff situation and resources of municipalities, the reform could probably only further exacerbate the problems of early childhood education and pre-school education, i.e. too large group sizes, a restless care environment and the quality of education. At the same time, comments were also received. In addition, the commentators were concerned about the challenges of implementation, for example between two different preschool curricula and different benefits and municipal authorities. For this reason, we are indeed proposing to reject the bill and we are waiting for the study of the experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u68	Madam President! There is a government proposal that proposes a new law on the experiment of two-year pre-school education and a revision of the early childhood education law. The experiment would take place between 2021 and 2024. Municipalities and pre-school education establishments participating in the experiment would be selected as a random sample. The target group of the experiment would include children born in the pilot municipalities in 2016-2017. About 10,000 children would take part in the experiment. According to the Government's proposal, the aim of the experiment is to strengthen educational equality by, among other things, increasing the participation of children aged 5 in planned education and teaching activities, improving the quality and effectiveness of teaching, exploring further learning between pre-school and primary education, family service choices, municipal practices and obtaining information on the impact of two-year pre-school education on children's development and learning conditions, social skills and the formation of a healthy self-esteem. The expansion of pre-school education is in line with the objectives of early childhood education of social democrats. The SDP wants to improve the quality of early childhood education and raise the level of participation in early childhood education. In addition to the best interests of the child, effective early childhood education is a prerequisite for the smooth reconciliation of work and family life for the parents of young children. The longer term objective of the SDP is free early childhood education for all. Early education is inextricably made up of a whole of play, care, education and teaching. Early childhood education, which takes account of the individual needs of the child, offers the best conditions for balanced development. Mr President! The participation of Finnish children in early childhood education is low in European terms. The development of children with a particular migrant background in early childhood education is crucial for language learning, integration and later school achievement. In 2018, around 74 per cent of children aged 1 to 6 have been in early childhood education in Finland. 88.6 per cent of children aged 5 years have participated in early childhood education. In Finland, the participation rate of children in early childhood education is clearly lower than in other Nordic countries and most OECD countries. However, the participation rate will increase significantly when the child reaches the pre-school age, as pre-school education accounts for approximately 99 per cent of the age group of 6 years. Mr President! The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media also supports measures to increase the participation rate in early childhood education. For example, early early early childhood education has a positive impact on the learning outcomes of children in the first school classes. The committee also notes that, according to the report, the free provision of early childhood education alone is not enough to encourage increased participation if the guardians feel dissatisfied with the quality of early childhood education if, for example, there are too large groups of children or there is a high turnover in staff. This is why it is important to invest specifically in improving the quality of early childhood education. This equality and quality in early childhood education is an important issue. Children's learning difficulties and behavioural disorders must be addressed in early childhood education. Marin’s Government’s Quality and Equality Programme ‘Legal Learning’for a high-quality activity inearly education. It is important that preventive work is indeed preventive and not corrective, which it unfortunately often is when it comes to, for example, middle-schoolers in puberty. We're already late with troubled kids, and that's gonna fix it. This is why it is important to invest in early childhood education, to support the growth and development of children in the highest possible quality and comprehensive manner. Multiprofessional cooperation in early childhood education and family work should also be strengthened. There, sociologists and other professionals working with children will see when the situation of a child, and especially his family, is causing undesirable effects on the child’s development. Is there sufficient scope for intervention, guidance and support in early childhood education for families with clear problems? I also believe that this issue needs to be assessed more closely. There's got to be tools. Child welfare notifications can be made, but is this already corrective support? It should therefore be possible to strengthen support for families, child health clinics and other measures in time to identify the risk conditions, poverty problems, substance abuse problems, mental health problems, etc., which unfortunately occur in many families with children, and which hinder the normal development of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u69	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Det är valdigt fint att vi har nu fått till behandling det är försöket till tvåårig förskoleundervisning. Jag minns då jag jobbade som kommundör, och en av förskoleläarna pratade om den roh vöjligheten till TVårig förskoleundervisning. Jag var själv kanske lite skeptisk till den roh öjligheten men — Hon i det rajfallet — tyckte att det raus skulle vara vatdigt bra med tanke på att det rai glappet blir valdigt stort för dem som kanske inte variant med i dagisverksamheten eller i småbarnspedagogicken tidigare och kommer in senare. Då blir det ett kort ett år för att kunna lyckas med det rauta, och därför tyckte hon att den rauht tvåriga skulle vara väldigt bra så att man hinter i kapp. Det auri är en slags förlängning på lärstigen, men i början av den, och för min egen del och parties del har vi stött det arv varmt. Vi ser att det är bra för jämlikheten på sikt och har fördelar gällande Baskunskaperna. Försöket är avsett för barn födda 2016 och 2017 och skulle omspanna åren 2021-2024. Kommunerna och verksamhetsställena som deltar i försöket väjs slummpmässigt, och är det jätteviktigt att de som är med i det rai får en bra information, och att också övriga får den correctta informationen. Målet är alltså att 10000 barn ska omfattas av den ox tvååriga förskoleundervisningen, och effecter att vi har haft betankandet i kulturutskottet så har skrivningar kring det ox svenska... Möjligheten för att vara med i det här försöket på svenska är väldigt bra. Samma gäller också utländsk bakgrund, det är Jätteviktigt att de är med, med tanke på integrationen. För försöket utarbetas en egen läroplan, men också lokala läroplaner, och det är valddigt bra. Vi ska komba ihåg nu att aven om att det talas om undervisning så är det frågan om att leken och sången ska raa viktig. Här är en viktig del det att man utvänderar det som man har kommit fram till. Man vill ju förstås se på språkkunskaper, sociala färdigheter och en sund självkänsla, att den är bra, och att det är bra för det psychiska vämåendet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u70	Madam President! We have here a report from the Committee on Culture on the experiment of two years of pre-school education in early childhood education, and here the Committee on Education has achieved a rather broad consensus — there is not a complete consensus, there is an objection that has been made to us, and there is a different view that this kind of experiment should not be carried out, but otherwise there has been a government-opposition-cross-border vision, and it is always valuable, in my opinion, when parliamentary intervention is possible. For that, thank you to all those in the Committee on Culture. President! I think this is worth a try. Much smaller and even more insignificant things have been tried in this country. I am sure that this will give us some information over the next few years, which will allow us to look later on at how to build the beginnings of school, how to build pre-school education, start primary school and early childhood education in modern society in the future. On top of that, President, we in the ranks of the centre think that when every person is different and every child is different, the thinking that a child at the age of 6 is quite mature enough for preschool and at the age of seven for comprehensive school is not quite modern thinking. There are many differences in the joint stages, and we would like to see greater flexibility for that school start. It's a very delicate phase. That phase of pre-school education and the start of comprehensive school is a very sensitive phase. It could be the first big split. It can be a big division between children who survive, who become good people, decent citizens and taxpayers, and those who fall from the wheel at that point. And that is why, President-in-Office, the future should be of the kind that we might have such a slide from 5 to 8 years, where, according to the characteristics and background of the child, it would be possible to begin its pre-school education and schooling. It's a little bit like this little kid's school. Furthermore, Mr President, there is every reason for such major educational reforms to start as experiments. So also in the 1960s comprehensive school started as an experiment in several cities and then gradually, by zone, was finally implemented. A little, Mr President, I am surprised at this objection from the Finns of Peru. It is good that the Finns of Peru are concerned about local government finances, but thinking that this experiment will then be permanent, and that it will knock the idea out, is special, but I think that, President, it represents the wider policy change of the Finns of Peruvians, in which these affairs of the small person, social, cultural matters are buried and the line will be even harder and thinner, and that kind of being on the side of a small person, the poor person, has fallen out of the repertoire completely.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u71	Mr President! This two-year pre-school experiment and the related amendment of the early childhood education law are indeed being discussed here. We had an excellent debate in that committee. This is where Mr Kurvinen referred to it and praised the good cooperation between the government and the opposition. Well, for me there is no problem, because this is the long-term goal of the coalition that we should have two years of pre-school education. Why have we felt this way for so long? Take, for example, economist Heckman, an American economist. When asked what he would invest in if there was a certain amount of money, he said that in early years. After all, we have had an extremely important and strong early childhood education in Finland for a long time, but that coverage is not as large as we could have, and the participation rate in early childhood education is lower than in the Nordic countries and most OECD countries. Of course, the quality of early childhood education is that a and o, and we have the advantage of developing this educare model in Finland, i.e. it varies according to the needs of the child. One child needs care and care and then another more of that education, and it can then be tailored to the needs of the child during the day when we have skilled staff there. And no day is the same. I'm sure we understand that. Two years of preschool education — why is this so important? One reason is that we have one in eight students who end comprehensive school at the moment without those basic skills. It is either writing, reading, or math. That is why we want this to strengthen the school path. This report talks about a more integrated path of learning, and that is precisely what we are trying to achieve here, namely that the joint stages, the transition stages, may be replaced and, in particular, individualised. After all, basic education would now have to be strengthened, so we have not really thought about what to do now in comprehensive school for a long time. Comprehensive school has been considered hugely good, and that is what it is, but it depends to a large extent on the fact that we have such a skilled staff and a faculty. What is important is that we look now also at basic education in the future, create a more consistent and integrated school path, and that basic education is flexible and individual and that it is really possible to make individual choices according to the child’s development process. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u72	Madam President! As a child of an experimental primary school, it must be said that experimenting is always worth experimenting with.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u75	Madam President! The Government Programme aims to raise the level of education and skills at all levels of education. The aim of increasing the participation rate is to reduce the learning gap between children and to increase educational equality. One way to achieve this is to increase the participation rate of children in early childhood education and to develop pre-school education. Children under school age are still treated at home for a very long time in Finland. The participation rate in early childhood education is also relatively low in European comparisons. In Finland, participation in early childhood education has been significantly lower than in other Nordic countries in recent years and is below the OECD average. This despite the fact that several studies have shown the importance of early childhood education for children’s growth and learning and subsequent success. Indeed, two-year preschool allows children from different backgrounds to take a more equal path to comprehensive school. Free pre-school education, which belongs to all, gives the children within its sphere the support they need for learning. This is crucial at a time when the development of children varies considerably at individual level. Studies have shown that differences between children in the early stages of comprehensive school can be large, even years of differences. Language skills, literacy, team skills, caring for your own goods, schedules and so on vary greatly among school graduates, and it is important that every child can receive meaningful education in pre-school and early school years, regardless of the level of skills. In the case of early childhood education, national experiments have also been carried out in the past. During the years 2018 to 2020, the Government conducted a free-of-charge experiment in early childhood education for 5-year-olds, the results of which have been assessed by the National Education Evaluation Centre Karvi in particular from the point of view of free-of-charge. It is estimated that the participation of 5 year olds in early childhood education increased more in experimental municipalities than in comparison municipalities. In addition to free of charge, the increase in participation rates can be explained by the improved service guidance of pilot municipalities and the positive atmosphere of early childhood education in the municipality. I would like to point out that the importance of the success of service guidance is indeed crucial in the form of a school and early childhood education path for children. The Government proposal now under discussion concerns free two-year pre-school education, which can be tried out by 10,000 children across Finland starting next autumn. The experiment has already been decided as part of the Government Programme and has been a very important objective for the Greens. I therefore encourage as many municipalities as possible to take part in the experiment, and I hope for continuity with the municipalities that were already involved in this first experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u76	Madam President! A very important and very good presentation, and it is great to see that such a large majority of this Chamber is behind it. There has also been much research in this area for some time now. Although this experiment is at this stage, we still have a cultural difference between preschool and primary school. For example, my former colleague, when doing a doctoral thesis on this subject, noticed that this kind of uniform operating culture does not arise by itself, and in particular the power arrangements appear there, for example, how pre-teachers' resources, that professionalism is ignored when considering in cooperation the development of this entire field from the early years to the beginning of the comprehensive school and beyond. After all, we need to be able to create better channels in which both pre-teachers, class teachers and special teachers, special-class teachers, in cooperation with the various professions, plan learning practices based on children's needs. And I am talking not only about exactly the study of books, but about everything in that chain already when we talk about preschool education and early childhood education as part of it. But yes, I also want to ask the Finns, like a few other representatives here. I do not know exactly whether the problem here is only the high price or fundamental opposition to the fact that this is being done to the municipalities, although it is now being replaced to them, or whether the basic Finns now feel that this inequality, which is coming here when not everyone is involved in the experiment, is becoming so great that it should not be carried out, i.e. children who are not involved in this would be excluded from something so big that, in your opinion, will not allow for this experiment and the possible good results that could be achieved here. Or do you think this is exactly what your President-in-Office, Mr Halla-aho, referred to as a support policy that invests in municipalities, education, learning and early childhood education?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u77	Irade fru talman, Madam President! In the morning before I came here, I took my five-year-old to kindergarten or kindergarten, and then the kindergarten teacher went to the car before I jumped into the car, that what you have on the agency today, so I said that, among other things, this experiment is now on the agenda today, and he strongly supported this two-year experiment. He is an experienced kindergarten teacher who knows exactly that the level of competence varies and just this joint stage is such that for some it is not suitable, for some not to have a one-year preschool, and then perhaps for some it requires a two-year pre-school education, and he warmly supported this experiment. In my opinion, Mr Ovaska was very good at raising this joint phase and that cooperation between the various actors, and that is very important, but there has also been talk of the lack of experts in the past, that is to say that there are enough pre-school teachers, and they are now being further trained, as also mentioned in our report, and that is very important because I think it is important that the participation rate in early childhood education is increased, because basic skills are needed to be able to read, write and then, of course, count.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u78	Mr President! I would like to answer the group president of the Centre about some of the changed ideas of the Finns of Peru. Well, I do not know if you are referring to Mr Soini, then he really did have a somewhat unclear line, that is, we had immigration criticism involved in party programmes for years and he simply did not want to follow that line as Minister. Our party, in which all Members are allowed to vote, wanted to change the chair, and the line had to be clarified. We have very strongly defended in our alternative budgets, speeches and presentations the need to reduce the cost of living, as well as to facilitate mobility. You know very well that tolls are being planned here and there is an increase in fuel tax. People have a fear of the future as to whether they can live everywhere in Finland and whether they can still drive. We have heard your Government Party Greens talk about how we could more walk and bike. It's all right when everything's close, but when I'm in Hyvinkää and I live in the villages, I know it's really just impossible to carry kids and stuff in the middle of the snow without a car, so realism is missing. Today, too, we have published an alternative budget in which we have proposed cuts to secondary expenditure and, for example, we want to reduce taxes on earned income. We specifically want to put a drink in Finnish people. We have been chosen here as defenders of Finnish interests, and I do not in any way sign that our policy would forget a small or any larger person — how you want to measure it, in width or length. But in any case, we do well to pursue everyday and personal matters. If you have some kind of social media or media war now with our chairman Halla-aho, then so be it. We have an alternative budget to deal with soon, and I'm sure you'll be able to debat with him. I would answer that I do not recognize this, that we are not in the interests of every human being, for it is in the interests of every human being that he has enough money to live and that the cost does not increase too much. And if that's a bad policy for the centre, then you think it's a bad policy. We think it's good.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u79	On this point, I would like to point out that this is a debate on a government proposal for a law on the experiment of two years of pre-school education and the amendment of the early childhood education law. I hope this is the point where we will start moving towards it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u80	Madam President! — We're back in line. Preschool education has strong roots. The earliest forms can be found from the 19th century: in a few cities, schools for young children were born. These schools for young children were intermediate forms of school education and day care where children were allowed to be while their parents were working. There has been a good debate here that we are aiming for such a complete and uniform school path, as Mr Risikko has said very well, and this whole and united school path should allow every child to find his or her strength. Mr Risikko, you also raised this subject with the possibility of a change. It is needed at every stage of the school path, and it is basically also a question of extending compulsory education when we want to keep these children, who are given good foundations and basic skills in early childhood education and basic education, with sufficient support, up to the age of adulthood. Provide guidance and support as necessary, which is what we need throughout the school path. Congressman Myllykoski, you brought up skilled personnel. It's important. Representative Ovaska also spoke of this division of labour and responsibilities in early childhood education, which is developmental. I am delighted that we have created new starting points for this sector, so that in the years to come there will be enough talent for this valuable work. It is good that, now that we are experimenting with two years of preschool education, the needs of different families are taken into account. Part-time early childhood education is also needed, for example, in families with multiple children, where either parent is at home. For my part, I encourage municipalities to join this pre-school experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u81	Mr President! I would also like to highlight the hope that the municipalities will also pay great attention to the joint stages of small children. In large growth cities, it is a familiar challenge that the place of early childhood education is not found in the vicinity of the home. The day care center next door is often full. On the other hand, a preschool place may be located in another day care centre or another school, and the child will have to change places at this point. The school and the first class and the new teachers may then be found in a third place. At this stage, a child aged between 6 and 7 may have switched to three different groups, different adults and different buildings on his/her own school or early childhood education path. The quality of early childhood education and the quality of education are also the fact that such over-allocations can be avoided. It can be solved at the place of preschool education at school or in day care centres, in student recruitment areas and at the time of student adoption. Good joint-stage practices, such as transfer discussions, visits, will also facilitate these exchanges, but also by ensuring that growth cities have the resources to invest in day care needs and schools so that services can be found close and these exchanges can be avoided. Those early childhood education and primary school services can indeed, Mr Meri, hopefully be within walking distance, and it would be of great importance to get rid of these road trips of less than two kilometres. [Leena Sea interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u82	Mr President! We are talking here about extending pre-school education to two years, and that is, of course, the main thing. However, it is reflected here that Mr Meri spoke and commented on my own speech, I believe that there has been a broad consensus on this, but in the opinion of the Finns, money should not be used to find out how early childhood education and pre-school education could be more appropriate for different children, especially children who may have a slightly weaker starting point for one reason or another, because of their own characteristics, family background or otherwise, so that they get more opportunities like this, but that it is considered to be a waste of money. I think it is appropriate to ask whether this is the long line in which the Finns of Finland are forgetting its perspective on equality. In my opinion, much of your policy no longer shows the search for social equality — for equality for low-income people, for people living in rural areas, and for such softer values. You have passed the assembly from the right, and that immigration has come up again and Soin's immigration stocks, which I'm not interested in. I find immigration policy far less interesting, President, than this issue of early childhood education. I think that this objection, the fact that the Finns of Finland do not want to try out such a more flexible model for small children, is an example of you pushing hard politics. It has come to the fore here throughout the autumn, your tough political stance. You were prepared to cut the home care allowance, at the time of the interim debate, you were behind it. The unemployed are very grumpy, and this week or weekend, once again, your chairman, Halla-aho, mentioned the fact that you do not believe that small municipalities and rural areas need subsidies. I think this is a change of line. Sometimes in history, I recall, the Finns of Peru try to help the most vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u83	Mr President! I will continue on this subject initiated by Mr Kurvise, because that is exactly how I feel that this experiment, in particular, will help a lot of different municipalities, not only large cities, but also more remote regions, which will be able to apply for these experiments and thereby raise the level of competence at a later stage. I do not mean that early childhood education is any kind of schooling, but we in this country currently have regional inequalities in these issues, and that is also reflected in the later stages of children and young people. Mr Meri was not able to answer the questions put by the chairman of our group, but rather recalled the past and the painful experiences of history from his own time as vice-chairman of the group. On the other hand, we want to talk about the future and about how quality and equality will be increased in both early childhood education and school, how this Right to Learn development programme will be completed. The government is putting an enormous amount of effort into it this season. We are collecting the experience of the guardians, ensuring that the support of professional farmers is multi-professional in this whole and, above all, we believe that the flexibility of the school path from that early years to the end will be ensured. So let's give it a try, and then let's see the results. At the end of the day, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee. We have disagreements about compulsory education, but this package, which is now being viewed here from the early years to basic education, is important. I think that is one of the most important things, and of course as a government, we are thinking of this whole path from the early years to life there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u84	Madam President! I have to say to Mr Kurvise that we are not on the side of the weaker. You're sitting in a government that increases fuel tax, reduces the household allowance, promised me a cent of May Day. If you're thinking about the sum of this for the elderly, it's a pretty toxic trio. Then you say that you are doing the honours of education, but there is a shortfall of EUR 100 million in upper secondary school education, for example. So there's a nut to bite.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u85	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 12/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Mr Risikko, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u86	Mr President! The Education Committee supports the Government's proposal to reduce customer fees for early childhood education. The aim of the change is to increase incentives to take up work, to support families with low and middle income incomes in particular, and to increase the participation rate of early childhood education. The reduction in fees will be achieved by increasing the income thresholds for the determination of the customer fee by 31 %. In addition, the proposal proposes to reduce the fees for siblings by 40% of the calculation of full-time early childhood education for the youngest child instead of the current 50%. The committee considers that the proposal is an excellent and necessary continuation of the work on the development of early childhood education, which has been carried out through various measures over the parliamentary term. The participation rate of early childhood education and the equality of education have been promoted over a long period of time, for example through the free early childhood education experiment launched in 2018 for children of five years of age and the reduction in early childhood education fees that came into force in the same year. In 2020, the Ministry of Education and Culture has launched the ‘Justice to learn’ project and the two-year pre-school experiment being prepared are important and consistent measures for the development of early childhood education. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Education considers that the Government's proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the adoption of the draft law contained in the government proposal without amendment. The Committee considers that the aim of the proposal to improve the attractiveness of participation in the labour market by reducing the incentive-trap effects of early childhood education fees is very important. The reform is particularly targeted at low-, middle-income and multi-child families and is expected to improve the position of women in the labour market. The committee draws attention to the importance of looking at early childhood education from the perspective of the rights of the child. Quality early childhood education promotes the learning capacity and equality of children and prevents exclusion. Early childhood education is an important support for families with children. When deciding on customer fees, account should be taken of the fact that fees do not constitute an obstacle to participation in early childhood education. Internationally, participation in early childhood education is lower in Finland than in many other countries, and children from families with low incomes or low-skilled mothers in particular participate relatively least in early childhood education. The Committee welcomes all measures to encourage families to use early childhood education services. The Committee stresses that investment in quality early childhood education will bring savings in the longer term as the need for child protection and other remedial services decreases. Participation in early childhood education should be promoted by all possible means, one of which is payment policy. In the future, it is good to explore the possibilities of moving towards free early childhood education. Participation in early childhood education is partly influenced by its quality, which is significantly increased by skilled staff. The Committee draws attention to the need to ensure the availability of staff with skills in early childhood education on an ongoing basis and welcomes the efforts made to resolve the problem by means of various measures. — This is about these university performance agreements and how important it is to have personnel in early childhood education. We also have equal access to diverse early childhood education services here as one of the subjects we want to open up. The committee draws attention to the fact that the proposal is likely to have an impact on the overall service activity of private early childhood education. According to the expert opinion received, municipalities aim to ensure that private activities are an equal option for all families. In order to ensure this, for example, family incomes often affect the value of the service voucher for early childhood education granted to the municipality’s family. The value of the service voucher is not determined by law, but is determined by the municipality. When a municipality determines the value of a service voucher, income limits in accordance with the Customer Fees Act are usually used in the definition. The change presented does not take into account the impact of the change on private service production and the cost of change for municipalities. In this respect, it remains for municipalities and private service providers to decide how private early childhood education can remain a fair alternative for all families. Indeed, this only applies to public sector service charges, and that is what led us to debate how to ensure that diverse service options and early childhood education options are available. Sometimes the private service production, private early childhood education is closer than the public, and that is why parents want to use it, and that is where the municipalities have often met. Unfortunately, however, this law does not take a position on this now, because the law, of course, cannot be addressed in any way in relation to private service charges. The Committee stresses that the diversity of the organisation of early childhood education services and the genuine choice of families must continue to be possible. Under the guidance of the national level of early childhood education, equal opportunities for families must be ensured, among other things, so that the income level of the family does not become a factor in the choices made. Another, one might say, critical point, which we discussed a lot in committee, was the compensation of customer fees to municipalities for corporate tax revenue. According to the proposal, revenue losses are compensated for by a higher share, plus two percentage points, of corporate tax revenue for municipalities. The committee itself welcomes the fact that the losses resulting from the proposed amendment will be fully compensated by the municipalities. This is in line with the legislation in force and the Government Programme and supports the implementation of the funding principle between municipalities and the state. The committee points out that the impact of the amendment and the method of compensation chosen do not target municipalities in the best possible way. According to the expert consultation, municipalities as a whole receive considerable overcompensation at the level of the country as a whole, with the aim of supporting the organisation of high-quality early childhood education, including in municipalities whose share of corporate tax revenue is lower than average in relation to their early childhood education costs. However, since the compensation received by the municipality depends, among other things, on variable corporate tax revenues, the exact size of the compensation is uncertain in advance. Factors determining the distribution of municipal corporation tax are not directly related to the population structure of municipalities or to early childhood education contributions. The Committee considers it necessary for the government to monitor the impact of the proposed compensation method on local government finances, both at national level and from the point of view of individual municipalities. The committee's proposal for a decision is for Parliament to adopt, without amendment, the bill contained in the Government proposal 198/2020. This report contains two statements of opposition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u87	Madam President! Thank you very much, Mr Risiko, for your clear presentation. The "Justice to learn" project brings us to a flexible school path, and in early childhood education we are experimenting with the project we were just talking about. We want to help a wide range of families, prevent exclusion and ensure that fees do not become an obstacle to the participation of children. We need both private and public early childhood education. Much has been said here today about how early childhood education contributes to the positive development and learning of a child. It is a very cost-effective service for families with children. The European Pillar of Social Rights in principle 11 states that all children are entitled to affordable early childhood education and quality care. In many countries, therefore, payment policies aim to promote the participation of children in early childhood education. For example, the majority of European countries provide children with at least one year of free early childhood education before compulsory education begins. In about half of the European countries, early childhood education is free of charge for children aged three or more up to the beginning of compulsory education. Early childhood education is also increasingly seen in Finland as the right of the child to which all children should have equal opportunities. Payments should not constitute any threshold for participation. The reduction in fees is estimated to increase participation in early childhood education by 4,700 children by 2024. Mr President! According to Statistics Finland's data, there were 558000 families with children in Finland at the end of 2019. Thus, 38 per cent of our population belonged to families with children. Last year, a total of 2,53727 children participated in early childhood education. The figure corresponds to around 77% of children aged 1 to 6 in the population. In low-income, first and second-income decile, the lowest percentage of children in early childhood education, less than 50 per cent, is in early childhood education funded by the municipality. As a result of the increase in income limits, the biggest reductions in payments are directed at families with low and middle incomes. This will increase equality between children and increase access to these early childhood education services for families with low incomes and will also facilitate the economic situation of families in other respects. Participation in early childhood education is lower in Finland than in many other countries, as has already been mentioned here today. Children from families with low incomes and low-skilled mothers in particular participate proportionally in early childhood education. Mr President! The Sipilä government reduced early childhood education fees by EUR 84 million. The current government will continue to reduce payments by EUR 70 million, that is to say, a total of EUR 150 million, which is a very significant financial contribution to families with children, families that are already hard at the moment. All of this will also have an impact on employment. Customer fees should not constitute a threshold for moving to work and doing part-time work where it is possible on behalf of the family. By checking the income limits and the percentages used in the payment system, we aim to encourage families to find employment in accordance with their situation. By increasing the income thresholds for early childhood education by 31%, new low-income families of all sizes will become fully free of charge in early childhood education and payments will be reduced in middle-income families. For high income families, the first child’s contributions remain unchanged. It is estimated that 20,000 new families will be admitted to free early childhood education. Mr President! This proposal contributes to the well-being of families and the construction of a child-friendly Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u88	Mr President! Reducing early childhood education fees will continue to be a positive and desirable development in support of children, families and early childhood education. This government proposal is expected and is a significant relief for families with limited means and many children. Since the reduction in payments is targeted at families with low and middle incomes, it affects precisely where it is of greatest importance. Every seven children live in poverty. We also know that in Finland children of low-income families and children of low-skilled mothers are relatively least involved in early childhood education. Poverty in families with children and overgenerational poverty are genuine problems in this country. Training is the most effective way of reducing these problems. Early childhood education provides the basis and prerequisites for equality in education and learning throughout the school path. The investments in early childhood education will never be wasted, therefore the direction must be free of charge and high-quality early childhood education. In Finland, only about 77 per cent of children aged 1 to 6 participate in early childhood education. This figure is low in many parts of the world. Experiments have shown that free-of-charge or lower fees increase participation in early childhood education, but this alone is not enough. At the same time, care must be taken to ensure the quality of early childhood education. Reducing early childhood education fees will also facilitate the application for work and the reception of work. By reducing fees, we will make it easier for parents of young children to work and study, thereby also supporting a more sustainable economy and people’s employment and well-being — but above all the equality and well-being of children and families.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u89	Madam President! For municipalities, this proposal can be burdensome, especially if the planned compensation is calculated from corporate tax revenue. The planned model would mean that some municipalities would receive too much and some too little compensation, since according to the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, the share of municipal corporation tax — its determining factors — is not linked to the population structure of municipalities or to the income from early childhood education contributions. In addition, the proposed compensation model is compatible with the ill-designed social welfare reform, where approximately one third of the distribution of municipal corporation tax takes place in the established welfare areas. The objection of the Finns Party and the National Coalition Party has taken into account the role of the private service provider, as the change presented does not take into account the impact of the change on private service production and the cost of change for municipalities. Madam President! In this respect, it remains for the municipalities to decide how private early childhood education can remain a fair alternative for all families. There are municipalities in Finland where private early childhood education accounts for a large share of service provision. We therefore propose that the reduction in early childhood education income should not be compensated by increasing the share of corporation tax paid to municipalities, but that a separate law on compensation should be laid down in such a way that compensation is paid in proportion to the precise losses of central government shares. This did not seem appropriate to the government, which I do find somewhat wonderful. In addition, in the protest we propose that the Government ensure equal opportunities for families to choose a provider of early childhood education regardless of income.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u90	Madam President! Day care in Finland is heavily subsidised by the state, as everyone knows, and this must of course be the case. Day care fees have been reduced several times in recent years. It has been suggested from many parties, as is the case here today, that day care should be completely free of charge. For a short time, the lowest incomes have not paid any child care fees. Other groups with lower incomes have also been reduced, as is now the case with this proposal. Day care is therefore practically free or very cheap for these groups. On the other hand, it is still relatively easy to reach the highest level of payment: two working averages with clearly lower incomes or one high incomes. Therefore, day care fees are highly flexible only in the other direction. Day care fees may lead to incentives traps, especially in multi-child, middle-income families. The government's proposal says that it is going to address these very issues, and this is, of course, to be welcomed. If the mother — yes, usually the mother — does not take up work, because the income from high daily care fees and fallen benefits is too low, then the incentive to stay at home remains. This is what the government wants to do. On the other hand, low incomes, such as the unemployed, are always encouraged to take the child to day care because it costs nothing. The same problematic incentive would take effect in all groups if day care were made free of charge. However, neither the government nor many others feel that this is a problem at all, because some people see that children are too much at home and too little in early childhood education. This ignores the fact that early start of day care may, for example, increase the risk of aggressive behaviour. In addition, there are many other factors besides the price that affect the decision of parents, especially here in the capital region. Although early childhood education workers have long pedagogical training, it is not fully utilised today. The problem is that there are too large groups of children, fatigue of workers, constantly changing staff, a large number of incompetent substitutes, serious problems for many children and families and a lack of a common language. Much is said about quality development, as is the case here today, but what is it, then, at the end of the day, in the midst of these problems? New programs and fine terms, demands and qualifications. If a doctor were always available free of charge, unnecessary medical visits would be made, this is admitted. However, in the case of day care, the problem is much wider, assuming that a person considers it important for a child to know how and where to treat it. There are different values. There are people who say that children are to be taken care of even immediately after parental leave, i.e. from under one year of age — there they become brisk, independent, creative learners who do not hang too much in their mother’s bosoms or sensitize vainly. These children are taught to dry, to talk, to eat, to sleep, and sometimes to behave. An employee of the day care centre may prove the first steps — a very small proportion of Finnish children go to day care at the age of one. On the other hand, there are people who see the home care of a small child as paramount. For many mothers, why not father, the idea of taking the baby to another treatment is involuntary and completely unnatural. The age of one-and-a-half may be much more ready for it, two-year-olds already very often, and the majority of Finnish children aged over two are already in early childhood education, some 70 per cent of those aged three. The longest care leave is for the least educated low-income women. Of course, there are groups, such as children of immigrants and poor families, for whom early childhood education can in all cases be more useful than home care. However, this should be understood as a specific case, ‘daycare on social grounds’,and should not be an incentive. A normal, well-being child who lives in a balanced family is not just part of day care storage. The quality of parenting is essential. Happy children who have enjoyed stable, safe and loving parenting are most likely to become well - surviving adults who work, pay taxes and care for their children well. This very concrete chain, which is clearly visible everywhere, is often hidden in a close welfare society, where the state has been increasingly involved in tasks and responsibilities. There, however, it is always there, and no tax - produced model can exceed the meaning of that chain.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u91	Mr President! Very often we talk about strengthening the role of early childhood education when we consider ways to increase the employment of adults when parents can return to work after years or months at home. Increasing the employment rate with the current Finnish demographic structure and in this time period is no minor matter, but quality early childhood education is also much more than a way for parents to return to the labour market. Early childhood education is first and foremost the right of the child. The right of every child to comprehensive growth and development lies at the heart of a child-friendly and equal society. The situations in which families live vary, and that is why I do not want to value family choices like Mr Purra. It is important that the child receive loving education and parental presence at home, but it is equally important that the quality of service can be provided in early childhood education. The age at which a child goes to early childhood education when talking about the age of one or two years is the choice of a family. Only high-quality early childhood education strengthens children’s linguistic and social skills. This is why it is important to invest in the quality of early childhood education, develop three-tier support and reduce group sizes. These measures have also already been taken by the current government, and the present bill strengthens this chosen line. Mr President! The Government proposes a reduction in customer fees for early childhood education. The reduction in payments would be achieved by increasing the income thresholds by 31%. In addition, it is proposed to reduce the fees for siblings to 40% of the calculated full-time early childhood education fee for the second child. In particular, the proposal will improve the position of families with low and middle incomes and strengthen the building of a child-friendly society. It is important to remember that in Finland, too, every seventh child lives in poverty. This is also an issue of equality. For the Greens, the long-term goal has been free early childhood education, towards which this bill takes a step. Free early childhood education would be the advantage of the Finnish labour market, but above all children's right to learn language and social skills. Mr President! The Government does not take a position on the early childhood education fees of private day care providers with its proposal. Private operators produce important early childhood education services in many cities, such as ours in Espoo, and complement the municipality's own production. — I have to move there, was that a three-minute limit? [The President : Yes! — The speaker moves to the podium] Mr President! Private early childhood education must operate on the same quality criteria, and its costs and fees should not be higher than those of the public, so that families have an equal choice of options available. It would be good if the government were still looking for ways to compensate the municipalities for all the cuts. The number of private early childhood education has increased in municipalities and partly because of the low investment ceiling or investment programmes that I opened up in my previous speech. An important part of the proposal is therefore that municipal finances should not suffer from this change in the law. As a result of this change, municipal revenue is estimated to decrease by around EUR 70 million. This will be compensated by a larger share of corporate tax revenue allocated to municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u92	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to amend the law on customer fees for early childhood education to reduce customer fees for early childhood education by 31%. In addition, it is proposed to reduce the fees for siblings to 40% of the calculated full-time pre-school education fee for a younger child. The SDP supports the government's proposal, which is yet another indication that the government is also investing at the beginning of the educational path, contrary to what the opposition has said, particularly in discussions on the extension of compulsory education in the past. Thus, the Government also invests heavily in early childhood education and in supporting growth and learning there. There is also a previous decision in early childhood education, a reduction in group sizes, where, for example, Mr Purra asked about these concrete measures to improve quality. The long-term objective of the SDP has been to increase the participation rate of early childhood education. This can be achieved by gradually moving towards free early childhood education and extending pre-school education to two years of age, i.e. five years of age. Learning before school age is a priority when it comes to investing in the future. Early childhood education also prevents exclusion, the periphery of under-represented and inequality between children and reduces differences in well-being and health in adulthood. Reducing early childhood education fees will increase both participation in early childhood education and employment. This is a future investment that benefits the whole of Finland. As a result of this change, municipal revenue is estimated to decrease by around EUR 70 million. This will be compensated by the allocation of a larger share of corporate tax revenue to municipalities. A separate Government proposal on the amendment of the Tax Accounting Act and the Income Tax Act will be submitted. The Education Committee also supports the Government's proposal to reduce the customer fees for early childhood education and notes that the aim of the change is to increase incentives to take up work, to support families with low and middle incomes in particular, and to increase the participation rate of early childhood education. It also states that the presentation is a necessary continuum for the development of early childhood education. Equal access to diverse early childhood education services is important. Mr President! In particular, the committee discussed the reimbursement of the loss of payment revenue. In the Government's proposal, the loss of income is presented for compensation to municipalities by allocating a higher share, i.e. plus 2 percentage points, of corporate tax revenue to municipalities. It is welcomed that the losses resulting from the change will be fully compensated by municipalities, and this is what the Marin Government Programme says that the new tasks will be fully compensated for. We've got to hold on to it. There was concern about the method of compensation, which was assessed as not necessarily best targeted at municipalities. According to the expert consultation, municipalities as a whole receive considerable overcompensation at the level of the country as a whole, with the aim of supporting the organisation of high-quality early childhood education, including in municipalities whose share of corporate tax revenue is lower than average in relation to their early childhood education costs. However, since the compensation received by the municipality also depends on variable corporate tax revenues, the exact size of the compensation is not certain in advance. Factors determining the distribution of municipal corporation tax are not directly related to the population structure of municipalities or to early childhood education contributions. It is therefore important for the government to monitor the impact of the proposed compensation method on local government finances both at national level and from the point of view of individual municipalities. Especially now, during the corona crisis, many companies, which have had perhaps relatively predictable incomes in the past, may have had a great deal of change in their situation. This means that, for example, companies that have produced well in the past in a municipality can make a negative result, which means that there will also be no corporate taxes on the municipality. And if the corporation tax does not accumulate, it will not be able to fill this gap resulting from the reduction in early childhood education fees.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u93	Madam President, ärade fru talman! En viktig del i regeringsprogrammet är ökandet av sysselsättningsgraden, och en viktig del i de åtgärderna är klientavgifterna för småbarnspedagogicen. Vi vet ju att en kvalitativ småbarnspedagogik är en valdigt bra satsning inför framtiden. Samtidigt vet vi också att vi har en hel del barnfattigdom i vårt land, och därför kan man också få ett starkt stöd om man satsar på småbarnspedagogicken i kommunerna och höjer andelen barn som är med i småbarnspedogogicken. Genom det au förslaget öjs inkomstgränserna med 31 percent för klintavgifterna för småbarnspedagogicen. Döreslås att avgifter som tas för syskon sänks så att avgiften som tas ut för andra barnet är 40 percent av den calkylerade avgiften för småbarnspedagogik på heltid för det yngsta barnet. Tidigare har det variant 50 percent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u94	Mr President! Indeed, there has been a good debate here, and it reflects the kind of debate we had in that committee — and I think it was very equal — and in that way there was a serious debate on these critical points. I think it is possible to say that there was a great deal of consensus on what the two critical points were, but here these statements, which will then be presented later in the sittings, were directed precisely at these two critical points. The second was precisely what this will be compensated for by the municipalities. After all, at the moment there is a basic rule that the weakening of municipalities' incomes as a result of government decisions should be compensated for them, and that the new tasks should also be compensated for 100%. This is where the compensation model is increasing the share of corporate tax in the municipalities. But here is the problem when we got the calculations from the Ministry of Finance, and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities also took a stand on this, saying that it discriminates between municipalities: although this overcompensation has been calculated, it does not evenly divide and some municipality suffers more — it may be that it goes to the minus — but then someone wins again. Then the second critical point was that those who use these private services should also have this discount on customer charges. Well, it is quite clear that we cannot decide by law on the charges of a private service provider, but we would like to point out that there are cities and regions in which a private service provider has been able to produce a price-quality ratio of such a high level that the municipalities have then wanted to organise it for the local authorities and have also offered service vouchers or other commitments. Even in some cases, the distance makes more sense to use a private service provider. That is why we drew attention to the need to continue to ensure equal opportunities for families to choose a provider of early childhood education regardless of income. There are many families, there are many situations in families, and that is why it is good that we have access to services from different service providers, and that is, of course, what we want to maintain. And it was the spirit of the committee all the time, the versatility of the supply. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u95	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 12/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Chairman of the Committee Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u96	Mr President! I present the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on a proposal from the government on the recovery of claims and the temporary amendment of the law on recovery. The opinion of the Economic Committee has also been received in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The proposal provides for a temporary amendment of the law on recovery of claims. The aim is to facilitate the situation of companies in financial difficulties due to the covid-19 epidemic, which is exacerbated by the costs of late payment of invoices and debts. The proposal proposes more detailed regulation to ensure that recovery costs other than those for consumers are reasonable and sufficiently harmonised. At present, the law contains detailed rules on recovery costs only for consumer claims. In the case of non-consumer claims, the law would include, firstly, provisions on the type of recovery operations and the number of recovery operations eligible for reimbursement. The law would also include provisions on the maximum amount of expenses and the total liability of the debtor for individual recovery operations, as well as the time limits for sending reminders and payment claims whose costs may be claimed by the debtor. The proposal also proposes restrictions on the use of trata. Under the law in force, no trat shall be used to recover the consumer's claim. It is proposed that, for non-consumer claims, the use of trata as a means of recovery should not be allowed if the debtor is a private person, a private trader, an open company or a limited partnership. It would be possible for Tratta to be sent but not published or reported as significant to the credit repository if the debtor limited liability company provides a statement that its turnover or corresponding income for the last financial year is below EUR 100000 or is only running for the first financial year. The Act is intended to enter into force as soon as possible, but no later than 1.1.21, and is intended to remain in force until 30 June 21. The law applies to recovery operations during the period of validity. The proposal proposes more detailed provisions for recovery of non-consumer claims. These changes are, as has been said, driven by coronavirus, so regulation is temporary. In the future, the Recovery Act will also be reformed to make permanent changes in line with the Government Programme records. Such a project will be launched early next year. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights considers it important that efforts should be made to ease the situation of companies suffering from temporary payment difficulties and to prevent any worsening of payment difficulties due to the exceptional situation of the corona virus. The proposed changes are part of the efforts to facilitate the situation of companies in an exceptional case of coronavirus. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has also concluded in its opinion that the proposed regulatory solution is justified in exceptional circumstances. On the basis of the report received, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights supports the adoption of the draft law contained in the proposal. With regard to recovery costs, the committee notes that the law on recovery in force is based on the assumption that the debtor must reimburse the costs of recovery. The majority of experts consulted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights have generally welcomed the government's proposals on recovery costs. However, the recovery sector has been critical of the proposals and considered that the proposed maximum amounts of expenditure are too low and that the restrictions on recovery measures prevent appropriate recovery. The Legal Affairs Committee notes that, although the proposed maximum amounts of recovery costs in euro are below the level of charges which the Authority considers reasonable in its decision-making practice for the recovery of corporate claims, as well as the level of costs arising from the Ministry of Justice’s statement of debt rulings, they are significantly higher in order to take into account the status of creditors and the recovery sector than the maximum amounts of recovery costs in euro for consumers. Even after the change, the maximum amounts can be estimated to be at a level that allows effective recovery and does not encourage late payment. The proposed rules on recovery costs are therefore not expected to have an impact on debtors' payment standards and it should also be noted that the proposed provisions on recovery costs, as well as recovery measures, are not absolute, but include flexibility for practical cases. With regard to the limitation of the use of Trata, the committee stated that trata is a request, in accordance with Article 7 of the Recovery Act, which requires payment within the prescribed time limit, that non-compliance be published or entered in a credit register. The aim of the ban on the use of Trata is, on the one hand, to protect debtors in a particular economic situation caused by the corona virus epidemic from excessive recovery costs and, on the other hand, to avoid the rapid emergence of default marking without an official process. According to the proposal, the limitation of the use of Trata is considered justified, inter alia, due to the disadvantages of the company’s activities as a result of the failure to pay. In its opinion on the proposal, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs considered the restrictions on the use of trata proposed in the proposal to be justified, although stressing the temporary nature of the regulation and the view expressed in the group's expert consultations that these restrictions may affect the financial markets, inter alia through the assessment of creditworthiness. The views of experts consulted by the Legal Committee on the proposed restrictions on the use of trata were divided. On the one hand, the restriction of the use of trata has been considered justified in order to protect the most vulnerable companies in the context of an epidemic, and on the other hand, the expert consultation has shown that restrictions on the use of trata make it difficult to assess the creditworthiness of the debtors due to the lack of information relevant to the creditworthiness of the credit record, which in turn could undermine the functioning of the credit society. The Committee on Legal Affairs considers that the proposed regulation is subject to both pro- and anti-regulatory considerations. Having assessed the report as a whole, both from the point of view of creditors and debtors, as well as from the point of view of the functioning of the credit society in general, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has decided to support the proposal for a temporary limitation of tradable collection. However, the committee stresses that it is precisely because it is a matter of temporary legislation that it is essential to limit the restrictions on trat collection proposed. The committee considers it acceptable that temporary regulation should remain in force as stated until 30 June 20021. The committee considers it appropriate to monitor the effects of the provisional law on debtors and creditors, as well as on the recovery sector and credit. The decision of the Legal Committee is that Parliament accepts the bill contained in the Government proposal 191/2020 vp without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u97	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 13/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u98	Mr President! I present the report of the Legal Committee on the Government's proposal to Parliament on the amendment of Chapter 1, Section 11 and Chapter 32, Section 11 of the Criminal Code. The government proposal proposes to amend those paragraphs of the Penal Code. The proposed legislative amendments would implement the Directive on the fight against money laundering through criminal law. Finnish legislation already largely fulfils the obligations of the Directive. The criminal offence of money laundering against own property or benefits, i.e. so-called self-washing, would be extended to some of the current offences defined in the money laundering characterisation and their attempt. Some offences would be considered as pre-crimes of money laundering or serious money laundering, regardless of the law of the State in which they were committed. The law is intended to enter into force no later than 3. 1 December of this year. The proposal concerns legislative amendments implementing the Directive on the fight against money laundering through criminal law. Money laundering refers to acts committed against property arising from criminal activities, such as conversion or transfer to legal or seemingly legal economic activities which conceal or eradicate the real origin of the property. Money laundering is an ancillary act which always requires a so-called pre-crime, which targets the property or benefit of money laundering. The purpose of the criminalisation of money laundering is to prevent profit from the proceeds and funds of the crime. Money laundering poses a threat to the legitimate economy. In Finland, legislation on money laundering offences has taken shape in connection with the implementation of international conventions and the implementation of EU legislation. The crime of money laundering is regulated in Chapter 32 of the Criminal Code. Finnish legislation already largely fulfils the obligations of the Directive. However, in order to implement the Directive, the proposal amends the criminal code by extending the scope of money laundering of personal property or benefits, i.e. so-called self-laundering, to some of the existing offences and their businesses as defined in the Money Laundering Code. Secondly, according to the proposed amendment, certain offences are regarded as pre-crimes of money laundering or serious money laundering, regardless of the law of the State in which they were committed, as I have already pointed out. The Committee on Legal Affairs considers it justified that the proposal should be limited to changes necessary for the implementation of the Directive. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Legal Committee considers that the proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the legislative proposals contained in the proposal. The committee's report takes a more detailed view of the extension of the punishment for self-washing and the grounds for criminal law in Finland and also, for example, the doctrine of law enforcement. These have been discussed extensively in the report, and it is worth studying them to understand what is at stake in self-washing and money-laundering. In addition, the committee has taken a position on maintaining a sense of concern. The report states that Chapter 32, Section 6 of the Criminal Code includes a penalty provision for money laundering. No amendment is proposed in the proposal. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 provides that, in addition to the forms of conduct referred to therein, criminality requires a sense of purpose, i.e. the intention of the offender to obtain for himself or another benefit — the purpose of profit — to conceal or dispel the origin of the proceeds of the crime — the purpose of covering — or to assist the offender in avoiding the legal consequences of the offence — the purpose of assistance. The basic principle of criminal law is that the wording of the penal provisions should only cover acts which are criminally reprehensible. In the view of the committee, the purpose of the conditions of intent raised in respect of acquisition, possession and use is to limit criminal behaviour to genuinely reprehensible situations. As proposed in the proposal, the removal of the scope of the criterion could lead to a situation in the Finnish legal system which would be problematic in terms of the precise nature of the regulation and the requirements of proportionality. Unreasonably far-reaching and also unclear situations could arise, for example, for persons living with or otherwise dealing with the offender in situations where they cannot reasonably avoid, for example, some kind of use of an object or property acquired with a criminal interest. As an example of a hearing with the Ministry of Justice, it may be difficult for a resident to avoid using a bathroom that has been renovated with the criminal benefit of the owner of the dwelling. In this case, the situation should be excluded from the criminal code mark. It is also relevant that the definition of intent is a matter of general doctrines of criminal law, which is not harmonised by the Directive in the laws of the Member States and in which the Member States have discretion. In the light of the above, the Committee on Legal Affairs considers that the approach taken in the Government's proposal, i.e. the maintenance of the conditions of purpose sensitivity, is justified. The draft decision of the Legal Committee is that Parliament accepts the bill contained in the Government proposal 183/2020 without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u99	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 10/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u100	Mr President! It seems that this has been a particularly easy matter for the committee when we are so numerous from the committee here. I have to say, if there's one, here, where we are... The government proposal and the report propose to amend the reindeer husbandry law — a subject which has been very problematic in that southern reindeer management area. There have been municipal mediation committees, and it has been extremely difficult for them to act because such confidentiality has not been obtained in these committees. Now the intention is to change the law so that this conciliation will become more expert-based, and so it is hoped that these reconciliations can be achieved in such a way that, when the aim of the proposal is to eliminate these problems, this neutrality and independence of dispute resolution activities would be achieved really well and this lack of confidence could be eliminated. But it is hoped that by this means, both farmers and reindeer keepers and private households will find an agreement to remedy the damage caused by reindeer so that they can be brought forward in reconciliation, and if not, then the district court will resolve them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u101	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 11/2020 vp, and the content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u102	Mr President! Let's do something that's great. If we consider that we want to increase carbon sinks, then with regard to these field discards that we have over there, which we can see as being basically uncultivated and not suitable for cultivation, then we have now left the government's proposal and now we have a report at the stage where we could reforest these small areas, when we have taken another step towards increasing our forests. In that sense, it has also been easy for the committee to promote this government proposal. Of course, I would like to say that in the future, when I took the initiative of taking action on this at the time, that Finland would now be active in the direction of the EU and could, to a greater extent, apply for support from the EU as a whole but, of course, from Finland, so that we could do more - perhaps even if we had small arable land in the form of crops, which is supported by machinery and equipment, perhaps for a few hectares which are no longer productively excellent or even profitable - to start afforesting them in such a way that, until the first thinning, payments from the field could be made to this afforestation process. In this way we could continue to promote the growth of carbon sinks in Finland, but hopefully this would also be possible throughout the EU. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u103	Mr President! Thank you to Mrs Myllykoski for taking the necessary initiative. In this regard, the Government proposes temporary support for afforestation. The law could be used to afforest so-called wasteland areas. The number of idling areas was assessed in spring 2020 in a project carried out by Tapio Oy based on spatial data sets. According to the surveys, the total area of waste water areas suitable for afforestation is about 118,000 hectares. They are, for example, arable parcels not covered by agriculture and former peat production areas. Fields in active farming are not intended to be afforested. The aid also excludes natural pastures for which compensatory payments are made for natural handicaps or water protection zones and landscape areas. On the other hand, arable areas which have been completely excluded from active farming, for example due to poor agricultural condition, can be afforested. As stated in the report, the proposal encourages private landowners to afforest precisely wasteland areas and to manage seedlings, including by combating mechanically rising surface vegetation. There are plenty of potential areas available. In this way we will be able to implement what is known as rational greenery, in which simple and supportive measures will increase carbon sinks that mitigate climate change. The growing forest swallows coal best. This is a good counterweight to reducing emissions through taxation. Mr President! The unanimous report of the committee has taken the view that the aid scheme should also be extended to smaller afforested areas, as the approval of smaller areas does not entail an unnecessary additional administrative burden. Smaller areas should also be included in the support system, as even small forest areas, for example in large arable areas, create shelters and growth environments for the needs of diverse nature. Mr President! The content of the proposal and the comments made in the report are acceptable measures to promote rational greenness.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u104	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 22/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u105	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Border Guard Act, the Law on the Processing of Personal Data in the Border Guard, the Law on Maritime Rescue, the Police Act, the Firearms Act, the Law on the Processing of Personal Data in the Police Office, the Aliens Act and the Law on the Processing of Personal Data in the Migration Administration. The purpose of the proposal is to make the amendments to national legislation required by the European Border and Coast Guard Regulation (Frontex). These changes mainly concern the powers of the authorities, decision-making and disclosure of information. The new Border and Coast Guard Regulation, which is part of EU legislation, is directly binding on the Member States. The Regulation is also valid as it stands and cannot be explained or specified by national regulation. Consequently, it will not be put into effect or implemented separately by national legislation. However, its application also requires complementary national legislation. The competence of national authorities to carry out the tasks provided for in the Regulation is based on the national legislation of Finland concerning each authority, which is not intended to be substantially amended. The proposal before us mainly concerns the involvement of the national authorities of the Home Affairs Administration, namely the Border Guard, the police and the Finnish Immigration Service in Frontex. Mr President! An operational and competent permanent group of 10,000 persons will be set up for Frontex. Finland's share of this group will be 8 long-term officials, 72 short-term officials and 30 officials in the rapid reaction reserve next year. These figures grow annually, with Finland accounting for 30 and 110 officials posted in 2027. According to the report received, the draft budget for next year includes appropriate national funding for a permanent set of tasks. The Administrative Committee considers it important that the different groups of the permanent group are in charge of the host Member State and that the use of force must comply with the national law of the host Member State and be in the presence of the border guards of the host Member State. Within the national margin allowed by the Border and Coast Guard Regulation, the host Member State may authorise a permanent number of members to act on its behalf in such a way that officials of the host Member State are not present. The committee considers it justified that Finland should not, however, use the margin allowed by the regulation. The committee stresses that members of the permanent group must be well trained so that they are prepared to carry out their duties properly, taking into account, among other things, the guarantees and responsibilities of good administration. Mr President! Returning asylum seekers who have received a negative decision is one of the main problems of the Union's immigration and asylum policy. The vast majority of those who have taken a final negative decision will not be allowed to leave Europe. There is no widespread willingness to return voluntarily. The Administrative Committee attaches great importance to improving the efficiency of return operations. The Border and Coast Guard Regulation also strengthens the monitoring of return operations to ensure respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights. With the new EU regulation, it is proposed that the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman be given a new role. It is therefore proposed to include in the Aliens Act a provision that the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman is responsible for participation in the reserve of forced return supervisors under Article 51 of the Border and Coast Guard Regulation. According to the explanatory statement of the Government's proposal, there is still no information on what kind of investment is expected from Finland in the control of returns. In future, under national law, it is up to the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman to monitor the return of his office with officials from other Member States without necessarily having to relate to the measures taken by the Finnish authorities. The committee will assess the appropriateness of this system once it has had sufficient experience. The new regulation will also include fundamental rights supervisors who will be employed by Frontex, who will assess compliance with fundamental rights in operational operations, provide advice and assistance and contribute to the promotion of fundamental rights as part of border management. Mr President! On the basis of the Government proposal and the report received, the Administrative Committee considers the legislative proposals contained in the proposal to be necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the adoption of legislative proposals without amendment, and this was unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u106	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 37/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u107	Mr President! It is a pleasure to be here to praise the good measures and proposals of a good government, and the report has also been produced in accordance with the provisions already laid down for this interest rate. I am pleased to note that the Government has continued to state that we will continue to carry on with the temporary changes aimed at simplifying the provisions on unemployment benefit in certain situations and thus reducing the processing of applications for benefits. It is essential that the protective part can now be kept at the level that it is, but I would like to raise one more point here: ‘The committee considers it important to clarify the effects of the temporary derogations that have been made. “ I hope that this will indeed be done and deepened in such a way that, on the basis of these experiences, we can also reduce the overall unemployment benefit system: simplify, make it clearer and, in particular, make it easier for the unemployed job seeker to do so, and so that employment for short-term jobs will also become considerably more attractive through this component of protection and other procedures, and we will then be able to reduce these so-called income traps in this sector. It is also worth pointing out that the Committee considers it particularly important to draw attention to the periods of validity and information of these derogations, so that they are available to employers, those applying for unemployment benefit, those laid-off — and specifically laid-off — knowing how these dates and dates will then work, so that the continuation is clear to everyone, so that nobody assumes but knows what these time limits are.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u108	Ärade Herr Talman! I det rai lagförslaget föreslår regeringen att den temporära höjningen av utkomstödet för arbetslösa på grund av covid-19-epidemin ska förlänges och ska kunna ges till slutet av mars 2021. Ersättningen är ett viktigt stöd för de personer och fabillioner som har det ekonomskt sämst stället i samhället, och därför är det mycket att stödet nu förlängs. Då det ursprungliga lagförslaget kom till riksdage had Ålands synpunkter inte Hunnit tas i beaktandet effectsom propositionen beretts en mycket brådskade tidtabell. Det klargjordes och fick en lösning jack vare en bra construktiv dialogue med social- och älsovårdsministeriet. I detta lagförslag som gäller en förlänning av samma töd nämndes inte Åland Heller, men meningen från social- och älsovårdsministeriet har ändå hela tiden variantt att tödet ska gälla också på Åland fortsättingsvis. Enligt ministers hade det helt enkelt varit så bråttom att man inte hunnit hura Åland i utlåtanderundan för det är lagförslaget. Jag har därför varit i kontakt med ministers som slagit fast att det fortsata tödet också ska gälla på Åland. Ministers har sagt att man gärna får notera den saken i social- och älsovårdsutskottets betankande, och det gör man nu i det betankande som vi nu har ra i första behandling. Tack till social- och halsovårdsutskottet för det, och med ordförande Markus Salmoni i spetsen samt utskottsråden för att man snabbt kunnat ta detta i beaktande då vi var i kontakt i ärendet. Jag vill också tacka min gruppkollega Veronica Rehn-Kivi som jag vet att har lyft upp saken — tack för det goda samarbetet i den rai frågan trots att tidtabelle variant mycket skyndsam. Irade the Talman! Det finns goda skäl varför den temporära ändringen skulle fortsätta gälla också på Åland. Stödet henkger ehpep med det undantagstillstånd, de restrictioner som infördes av statsmakten också på Åland, och som stold ovanför självstyrelsens behörigheter också på de områden där Åland normalt har egen lagstiftningsbehörighet. Även det oxär et mycket beskrivande fall över hur viktig ricksdagsbehandlingen alltid är för att granska lagförslagen, och vid behov snabbt kunna göra justeringar i dem.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u109	The 20th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-30-ps-154.u110	Ärade Herr Talman! Samfund och fysiska personer som har sin hemkommun på Åland är inte scyldiga att betala rundradioskatt utan betalar istallet en snarlik årlig medieavgift, som är jämförbar med rundradioskatten, till landskapet för att finansiera Ålands public service-bolag Ålands Radio och TV. Medieavgiften ersätter den TV-licens som tidigare har använts — en förndring som gjorts tidigare i riket med rundradioskatten. För att samfund på Åland och i övriga Finland ska behandlas lässä föreslås i det ox lagförslaget nu bestemmelser i näringsskattelagen och inkomstskattelagen för gårdsbruk om att den åländska medieavgiften ska vaa avdragbar i beskattningen på samma ätttt som rundradioskatten. På motsvarande sätt är rundradioskatten enligt inkomstskattelagen inte en avdragbar utgift för physiska personer, och med tanke på läsbehandlingen av fysiska personer utvidgas därför bestemmelsen i lagen till att utöver rundradioskatten också gälla den åländska medieavgiften. Irade the Talman! Åland har inte egen behörighet att göra dessa ändringar i beskattningen enligt självstyrelselagen, och därför har ärendet nu kommit till ricksdage som ett lagförslag som finansutskottet har behandlat. Det är på så vis ett politiskt okplicerat och ett odramatiskt lagförslag och snarare formalia för riksdagen att besluta om, och därför blev också finansutskottet enhälligt i sitt betankande kring det ras lagförslaget.
