ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you of these security intervals in this Chamber that they will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 14/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u3	Mr President! It is essential for the scope of the withdrawal agreement that British nationals who reside in Finland before the end of the transitional period also continue to reside after the end of the transitional period. After a transitional period, the entry and residence of UK nationals not covered by the withdrawal agreement shall be subject to the provisions on third-country nationals. The Administrative Committee draws attention to the... [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne : Representative Purra, for the moment. — Now, I ask that the security gap be maintained here in the Chamber. — Please. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u6	Mr President! I dare to speak here, although I am not quite sure that I am able to use these concepts, which the Administrative Committee has rightly identified, as 'right of residence' and'residence status'. The difference between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union is significant in terms of its impact and it also creates a need for change in our national legislation. United Kingdom citizens live permanently in Finland about five thousand. Their right of residence has been legally based on the principle of the free movement of the European Union, but following the resignation of the United Kingdom from membership of the European Union at the beginning of February of this year, UK nationals permanently resident in Finland must apply for a residence permit at the Finnish Immigration Service or abroad within nine months of the end of the transitional period which will continue until the end of next year. However, this obligation to apply for a residence permit applies only to persons who do not hold a document proving the right of permanent residence. Mr President! It is important that we ensure the smooth handling of residence permits and the legal conditions for British nationals who have settled in and work here in Finland. This also has a crucial impact on the continuity of working and family relationships. At the same time, of course, we expect and assume that even after the EU separation, Finns living in the UK will have their right to reside and work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u7	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee, Mr Purra, presented this report very well and stressed the importance of advice and information, and it is indeed important that British citizens are aware of this possibility when it comes to making an application within the time limit. This government proposal is quite welcome and supported and certainly eliminates uncertainty and uncertainty among these citizens and among their family members who are and want to continue to be here legally. Perhaps it could be said at this end that the exit also raises a lot of issues that need to be resolved, and that is one way to deal with this unfortunate episode.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u8	Mr President! Brexit is visible in many, and the effects are certainly extensive. It is good that British citizens have been able to stay and live in Finland during this transition period – there are about five thousand of them in Finland – and hopefully this extension will also be successful in a smooth and smooth way. It is, however, about a large number of workers and a large number of their children who have gone to school here, for example. What I would like to highlight in this debate is, in fact, the major impact of Brexit on business in general. I hope that there will also be solutions in these negotiations so that the conditions for companies to operate across the EU to Great Britain can continue as smoothly as possible in the future. The big issue in this Brexit is, of course, security, which radiates to us all the way to Finland from the point of view of international terrorism and the exchange of information, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u9	Mr President! This divorce agreement highlights the continuation of what is known as normal life where those covered by the divorce agreement have settled. Mr President! This separation agreement allows for the right of residence under European Union law to be changed to the right of residence under a separation agreement, but instead what remains to be taken into account here in the Member States is that the withdrawal agreement leaves these procedural matters to the Member States and the procedure and the timetable for applying for residence rights to be decided by the Member States. As the chairman of the Administrative Committee stated in his presentation, we in Finland have wanted to ensure that, for example, this procedure, which respects the right to appeal, follows the European citizen's process in that respect. This distinction between the right of residence and the right of residence, these terms, then becomes very clear in the report of the Administrative Committee. I do not think that there is any significant difference between this in itself, but every time you talk about the right of residence, you must also remember that it is important to note that in Finland, for example, housing-based social security is the type of social security that you have to meet those conditions in order to be able to become covered by this housing-based social security system in Finland. In that sense, this is one of the points where this right of residence—residency terminology is central. Mr President! As such, good work has been done in the Administrative Committee on this matter and the government's proposal has been clarified, particularly in relation to this process, which is therefore equivalent to the process of European citizenship.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u10	Mr President! In Great Britain, with a reasonably long population, this subject and its human impact are coming close. Brexit has in many ways been hard on the human and economic price tag already before the worst effects have even been seen. But at this stage, it is of course important to look ahead and think about how at least the worst effects can be combated, and this will, of course, ultimately be up to us Member States. That is why it has been great to see that the Committee on Administrative Affairs has been paying attention to this and has drawn attention to the fact that there will be no ambiguity when we start to define the conditions under which British citizens can continue to be in Finland. It is clear from this debate that in many ways, when we talk about international cooperation, the best value will be achieved when we keep the negotiating and discussion sessions good and when no one leaves to pick up raisins from buns. That's often a lot harder than that metaphor even sounds. As far as free trade is concerned, it is self-evident that if we want to avoid double-checking and, for example, to check the safety of medicines once and for all, then we must agree together on the criteria and procedures for ensuring that they are safe. If one side is not prepared to agree together on which criteria are in place, then we will not be able to move forward and trade can at its worst become bogged down, which will then be reflected seriously in employment and in the situation of companies. The same applies in many ways to this issue of freedom of movement and right of residence. To some extent, the British Conservative leadership has seen a tendency to seek more rights for the British than they will be prepared to give to EU citizens in the future, and of course such an equation would in many ways be practical but also in principle ineffective. That is why it is good to learn from this case. You can't pick up raisins from a bun. The preservation of international cooperation, good negotiation periods and common standards is in many ways in the interests of all of us, and now we must try to find a common way forward for the EU in order to avoid such disasters in the future, not only now that the effects of this disaster are minimised by all possible means.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u11	Mr President! I was looking at the report of the Administrative Committee today, and this appeal has been corrected with great merit under the chairmanship of Mr Purra, but I noticed that in the expert hearings it has become clear that an article in the Administrative Law Act, which could also deal with matters of this group in a lighter composition, was to be welcomed. In my view, this has also been on the table during the drafting of the law — the members of the committee will be allowed to correct if I have had the wrong impression — and it is a great pity that this was not taken into account at the time when the law was being drafted, and as chairman of the Legal Committee, I would have liked to have included this opinion in the Committee on Legal Affairs. It says here we didn't have time to ask. Well, we didn't get a chance to put one in the government's bill, so I'm sure the hall won't have understood it then. I would have asked, of course, if there were a minister here — they cannot now, I understand — whether there will be any changes to this once this has come up in the expert hearings. We have a lot of groups there precisely because our administrative rights are congested. For example, when we in the Committee on Legal Affairs have heard about administrative rights, there are already more than half of these issues relating to immigration, which this should count — or at least those relating to a residence permit — and which then extend processing times. In these immigration cases, processing times have been on average five months, while in other groups they have been nine months, such as tax-related and social services and child protection. And now, in fact, I am sending out such a message that you should quickly bring a section here, so that we can get this into the lighter procedure, so that the administrative rights do not become even more congested. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u12	Mr President! In short, just enough that now that the British left the European Union, here we get an example of how complicated the process it is there will be if someone like this makes a decision. It is essential for Finland that the link with the British islands remains good and strong, because it is our important trading partner. It is also the Western democratic rule of law, where maintaining contacts is also important for Finns. It is a good thing that this transitional period is handled in style, as this report by the Committee on Administrative Affairs has been sincerely and very successful. And then, one day, when the final situation is reached — when all the agreements have been concluded between the European Union and the British, when we get to the normal everyday work after next year — I would like Finland to have such uncomplicated, good relations with those British islands. It is still an important partner for us, and I believe that such a position of agreement will be created in this country with the British that it will play. I believe, however, that there are still many things to be said about this before a good situation is achieved, but I believe that with a sincere attempt we will achieve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u13	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 45 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u14	Mr President! This is a familiar matter for Parliament. When the epidemic started, we granted tax exemption for goods needed to prevent, test and treat covid-19 infection. It is now proposed that this temporary exemption be extended by three months until the end of 20. This has been estimated to have a reduction in tax revenue of EUR 4 million and is intended to be dealt with in the context of the fifth amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u15	Mr President! Thank you for the introduction. I think the motion is very much to be supported. In this context, when we talk about VAT law and products related to this corona epidemic and its management and prevention, I would like to ask a question and a wish as to whether it would be possible and appropriate to consider changing the value added tax on masks so that the current 24% would be converted to 10%, as with many other pharmacy products, or even zero, if possible. In the same context, it is, of course, worth thanking for the fact that there are masks for the low-income through municipalities now, and also for the Tax Administration's policy of allowing employees to be distributed duty-free. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u16	Mr President! This is a worthy and well-founded proposal. This exemption applies, for example, to breathing protection equipment, protective equipment, test kits or breathing equipment needed by doctors and other health care professionals. That question raised by Mr Kiuru has also been in my own mind. At the same time: today, the State Economic Research Centre VATT published a press release on a recent study, an international study which found that temporary VAT reductions have even led to higher prices than the original level and that then, once again, when we return to that standard VAT level, prices will rise, and so it will be worth watching in the future how this price development may take place for these products after the end of this period. In any case, it is indeed important that we now use the means available to us in order to contain this possible second wave which, unfortunately, has now been raised in Europe. Fortunately, we have done well in many ways in Finland, but we must also pay attention to all kinds of materials that are supporting the strategy of testing and tracing and preventing these coronavirus infections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u17	Mr President! The continuation of a fixed-term covid-19 tax exemption for breathing protection and testing equipment, equipment and related products used by doctors and healthcare is well founded. Mr Räsänen, as a doctor from his civilian profession, gave a good speech ahead of that and also raised the concerns that might arise as a result of these temporary changes. Of course, it is good to follow them, but I am sure that this proposal will be a good one and a sensible one and a positive one. In the past, Mr Kiuru raised the issue of consumer products, which are now also playing an important role. Your breathing masks and gloves are quite common to many of us today, and they have a 24% VAT. These are, by the way, what many people on low incomes have to buy at the moment, even though the government has promised that they will be distributed to those on low incomes, which means that this division has not succeeded in doing so. For example, the Consumer Union was concerned about the recommendation to use facial masks from the point of view that it should not discriminate against households. For example, for a family with two adults and two children using public transport, the monthly cost is at least 200 euros, and, of course, 24% VAT is a pretty big cut. This week we received information that the Turku University of Applied Sciences has also ordered — not recommended, but prescribed — a mask for students and indicated that the costs will be borne by the students themselves. The Rector of Turku University of Applied Sciences had stated that masks are compared to study equipment. By the way, this is a surprisingly large expense for many low-income students when they have to buy these masks, and it is certainly not possible with one fabric mask, but when I have been actively using them now, there must be more masks, even fabrics, to ensure its cycle, washing and cleanness. I should like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, if you would also consider the abolition of VAT on consumer corona products, i.e. mainly handcrafts and respiratory protection. You'll be supported by the opposition here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u18	Mr President! This temporary change in the value added tax on protective equipment and, among other things, the series of tests, and the extension of it now for three months, is certainly a worthy proposal for you. Here many colleagues have now raised this question as to whether it would be possible to think of a temporary exemption from VAT in the consumer sector, for example on face masks and handmades. I would also like to raise another concern in this proposal, the original one, raised in the tax section. In other words, when it comes to the definition that these VAT exemptions will be granted to ‘public health and health care and socialservice providers’, ‘state actors’, ‘organisations’ and ‘public interest bodies’ which are recognised by competent authorities, are in such a position as socialprivate operators? The last debate left me with the impression — and I think it was that the Coalition Party and the KD made a joint protest — that this did not apply to these small players. It does seem strange in this way that if, for example, there has been an overall outsourcing, or if things are going on in large health waste, then it is when, from the point of view of the total outsourcing, they belong to this group of operators, which is listed here, but then, for example, if there are small social entrepreneurs in the SME sector, or if we have a joint venture in the municipal and private sectors, then they obviously do not have the possibility of this VAT exemption. I would have liked to hear from the Minister whether this has now given rise to some kind of debate, why, in this way, these different operators – in many small municipalities in Finland, these things are managed by good cooperation between the private and the public – and, in fact, who, for example, is responsible for acquiring these protective equipment. I remember that as soon as this epidemic started, we had a reasonable fish balisket in Finland as to whether the responsibility of the health care district extended to all these private parties and whether it provided enough of these protective equipment. Many then went out to get these protective equipment themselves. So this is a bit of a grey and shady area. How can the acquisition of these operators be ensured, so that, on the same side too, when they are engaged in exactly the same tasks, this exemption from VAT is ensured?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u19	Mr President! An important point, which the Minister for Finance firmly and well presented, and very sympathetic contributions have been heard from colleagues here. When I noticed that this matter was on the list, I thought that just briefly to the day-to-day situation in which we are currently in, but before that, a few comments on the debate. I can't give you an exhaustive answer. To the question that Mrs Essayah has just asked, but my impression is that when there is private subcontracting in the sphere of public organisation, this amendment of the law does cover those matters, but when it comes to small businesses or even larger companies, in which, so to speak, self-paying treatment, they would be outside the scope of this. But, of course, this needs to be clarified carefully. Personally, I would draw attention to the fact that this period is now extended to 30. Adopted by the Commission on 15 October. I understand that because the bill has already been submitted on the June side, and then we certainly had the deadline for October, but now that we are already in the beginning of September, we will all understand that this must be achieved until the end of the year. I am sure the Committee on Budgets will be able to take a position on this. The third point to which colleagues have drawn attention is to consider the extent to which this could be extended to so-called consumer products, and that sounds like a very sensible question. But just for a moment in this situation. After all, we have a lot of public debate on this corona epidemic, and it also provides us with very good information. I tried to do this very quickly, actually here at the desk, to look at these key figures. In this context, I would like to say that today, when the figures for Tuesday 1 September at 2 p.m. were available, we had new infections in the previous week, i.e. Tuesday 25 August, 161. If I split it by seven, the daily average is 23. If I look back 2 weeks, i.e. between 11 August and 25 August, 358 infections, the daily average is 25, so it would appear that this last week has not been any more lively, even though we have had these cases in individual municipalities, Kuhmo, Jyväskylä and so on. On the other hand, there was a clear difference between the two weeks preceding it, i.e. 29 July to 11 August, when the daily average of new infections was around 15. So this is the situation now. Today, I noticed that THL Mika Salminen has confirmed that we are not in an epidemic situation. After all, the epidemic situation means the spread of the disease throughout the country, but we have individual clusters. So that is how the situation is under control, and the number of tests has risen tremendously. So, in a rather demanding situation, we are now in this immediate future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u20	Mr President! As we said in the tax section this spring, the Commission's position is very clear. It states that the exemption does not cover private health care provided by private operators and therefore the committee did not consider it possible to extend the proposed exemption to private operators in all their activities. To the extent that they provide common care and care available to all, they are entitled to this. And it is important to note that Finland’s health services are exceptionally efficient, even too efficient; we should spend a little more money on them to improve quality to the level of the top countries and get the queues out. I welcome the fact that HUS and many other hospital districts and many municipalities have also decided to use private services in the corona crisis, for example, for the dismantling of test queues, but we have now seen that these real solutions are, however, only in the public sector. The interest crisis has shown that the private sector is not a magic box that can solve the problems of the poorly funded health sector in Finland. As the testing times grew disproportionate, it became apparent that even private capacity was not enough at all and prices were also high. I think that the line taken by the government here is quite right, and it is good that solutions can then be used at local level which operate everywhere at local level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u21	Mr President! First of all, it should be noted that such a VAT relief is indeed necessary in order to ensure that public sector health care and public sector healthcare are provided with the necessary protective equipment at a lower price and other items required to combat the interest rate. There are now two parallel discussions: the situation in which the health service provider acquires supplies, on the one hand, and the question of what should be done to enable as many consumers as possible to obtain a mask, for example. In relation to the latter, Mr Räsänen made a good point in a study published previously by Vatti himself, but now with even more international visibility through an international publication, according to which at least such temporary VAT reductions will not help consumers, because it will always have a stronger impact when VAT is raised back to the same level, as it were, as it were, than the fall has had a bearing on consumer prices. That is why it makes more sense to have a long-term tax policy. If it is decided to change the value added tax category of a product, then it is worth doing it on a permanent basis rather than on a temporary basis. In the past, we have discussed, for example, the taxation of menstruation products and other essential hygiene products. It is clear that it might be worth looking at whether masks are more like medicines than like other products, but really that change should be made in the longer term, permanently and not temporarily, because there is always the risk that it will actually increase consumer prices. But this is precisely about the sale to consumers; I do not understand that this applies to sales at the time when a health service provider, for example, purchases those masks. These two debates need to take place separately, and we are talking about the latter. The EU limits the scope for action to some extent. If we wanted to bring it down to zero, for example, the value added tax on masks sold to consumers, we would certainly have to have a debate with the EU, with the Commission, because it has not been mandated in this situation. On the other hand, this has actually been given the possibility that, when it is provided with public health care, the value added tax at that point may temporarily be zero. In other words, these separate debates are all important, but especially when we talk about such a delicate and fine matter, it is important to make them clearly separate, so that we know what can be done, what cannot be done, when action will have the effect that really those products are easier and cheaper to obtain, and when there is again that representative Räsänen raised the risk that actually it is
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u22	Mr President! Now that Finance Minister Vanhanen is here: There were good speeches here about these expenses and taxation, and I will continue to ask a written question at the beginning of August — to which I have now received an answer, today I received an e-mail from Minister Kiuru — asking about the tax deduction rights of masks and, in addition, that there would be an extra item like this for the low-income masks. Well, after that, it happened that it was promised to give these masks to the low-income from those municipalities, but hopefully it will now achieve everything, that is, then you might wonder whether there would be half the right to deduct there too. For example, if you are on a labour market subsidy, you are at home, so the tax rate will vary, so it would affect the tax rate if the deduction were to be made directly from the tax, not a reduction that reduces income and thus has a very minimal impact. Furthermore, since then the Tax Administration has stated that the employer can give masks if they are needed at work, and if the employer does not do so, then the employee can deduct 750 euros as a reduction in income. It comes automatically, and then with receipts over. Well, now it's good to remember that many people who need masks don't work constantly, can work part-time, can be in many different life situations, or can be unemployed, as I just said, and it affects taxation, and yet he still needs masks, for example, to go to the store. This is all that remains to be resolved here when it comes to employers. And then the tax office stated that commuting expenses could also be reduced by the cost of acquiring a mask. Well, there's a co-ownership of 750 euros, so that if you think, for example, that in the capital region 11 months a year you get a travel allowance, this internal tram ticket costs less than that, which means that the person will not get this because the deductions are not enough. And when I tried to look over there — I am not now some in-depth tax expert, but now I have read some tax law — I do not think that there is such a good article for the tax authorities as to how they could, by their own interpretation, change it so that it should be deducted directly from the tax, such as the household allowance. The tax authorities would need a section to change the fact that masks, for example, would be the same for everyone, so that if taxable income remained, then all groups would have it. I would therefore ask the Minister for Finance to look at this, because I am now deeply concerned by myself in the summer and I would like to see this move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u23	Mr President! Indeed, the VAT Act was amended in the spring following a provisional decision by the European Commission in respect of the goods involved in testing and treating and preventing the covid imported into the country by operators governed by public law. This will now be extended for three months, and of course this will be based on the extension of the provisional decision adopted by the Commission. And as has been raised here, I agree that this could be even longer, probably until the end of this year, but it is, of course, very much up to the Commission's own proposals. As far as consumers are concerned, it is probably good to have this debate in committee after the referral, but Mr Saramo made it quite clear that the extension of this issue falls within the scope of these public procurement. Thank you again to the Ministry of Finance. This is a matter for the fifth budget and it will be dealt with in connection with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u24	Then the finance minister, Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u25	Mr President! First, this scale: as I said, this is a loss of tax revenue of around EUR 4 million. It can be compared to the package for municipalities and hospital districts, which was approved in the fourth amending budget. This is one way of supporting the health care districts of municipalities in the management of this epidemic, but of course it will be a major source of direct support for this aid, but it will be possible to provide such targeted tax support. For Mr Lindén: this timetable comes from the Commission's mobile sector, which is until the end of October. If it were to happen that now, while this is being discussed, the Commission would suddenly make an extension of the time, then I will not object if this deadline is extended in committee as well. Unfortunately, it is not possible to obtain these masks and handmades at a reduced rate of value added. There is an Annex 3 to the VAT Directive which determines where reduced rates can be used, and these are unfortunately not included. In other words, if we want to drop these from 24%, then we need to reduce this standard rate of VAT. It then applies to the whole of VAT, which is not what we are proposing. Mr Essayah is right, this does not cover these private operators. In fact, Mr Saramo made a good, clarifying speech on this. Representative to Merelle: This right to deduct masks was already mentioned in these employee benefits and it was found that this is not directly covered by the legislation, but in fact I appealed to the Tax Administration to see if they could see whether this could be dealt with by their recommendation or interpretation, and it was manageable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u30	Mr President! Thank you for your answer. I will return to this VAT issue. If, indeed, the EU requires a change in the VAT scale as a whole, then we are in a tight spot. But I still want to be sure of it now, because I have such information that medicines sold at the pharmacy and certain medical products are at a 10% VAT rate. Now, without knowing more about the background, it would seem possible to think that masks are such a medical product with a VAT rate of 10%. That I will come back to this point so that it can now be properly understood and the background is clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u31	Mr President! In fact, the same observation that Mr Kiuru raised there. After all, this VAT issue is quite a big one at the moment. There will also be some feedback from other sectors, for example, when VAT has been calculated with the interest rate in Europe, and otherwise it will appear and distort some of the trade on the Internet, for example, which is also found in these mask orders. And, after all, the EU has allowed a large number of different interpretations of interest rates and interest rates on a number of issues — exceptional circumstances have allowed different exceptional solutions. But the attention of the representative The gurney mentioned above specifically concerned medicines and medical products, whether your hands and respiratory protection should not be included in this. This should be checked and verified once again as to whether this could be done. This would be a significant hand-out for many people on low incomes and others who, for example, now have to use public transport in commuting, either by reducing it to that lower position, or by abolishing VAT on these products altogether, including in the case of ordinary people shopping. But let us hope that this issue, the medicines and medical products, can still be verified.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u32	Mr President! I agree with these hopes that this VAT rate will also be examined, because if this problem persists for a long time, then this will go to people's pockets. Perhaps now I should like to point out to the Minister for Finance that we should stop at this point. After all, travel expenses only apply to persons who are continuously employed and only receive them for 11 months. They are not available for 12 months because it is always assumed that there is one month of leave. And then there's that 750-euro charge. I'm asking you to look at this whole thing. There are people here who may not be quite so poor that they can get these masks from the municipality. There are a wide range of — there are temporary jobs, six months are working, six months are not — there are situations like this. I'd ask you to look at it. And there are differences in these deductions. Travel expenses are deducted from the annual income and are very marginal in that total taxation, but if it is directly deducted from taxes, such as the household allowance, it significantly reduces taxes, then in a way, it gets its benefits directly each year. However, I would ask you to take a look at this whole thing. This is complicated, but in my opinion the tax authorities do not have such a broad scope of action — that is why they have found that travel expense there, and then this income reduction is one. You might want to take a look at this. If this continues for a long time, it will be such a very permanent and large, mandatory continuous expense. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u33	Mr President! Just as the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, spoke, so the whole of the alvia must be counted if we are to correct this matter. Perhaps we should really start thinking about starting to count our alves down to the EU average, because at the moment a product like a product is going to cost us so much that it starts to burn a little bit like a pine cone, if you say so, here at grassroots level. That has been a good example today. The horns have been ringing practically all day along the road, as motorists are getting tired of rising fuel prices in the form of taxes. How about we actually start to make competitiveness and other solutions in many areas by actually going towards it and gradually moving the entire tax rate towards the EU average?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u34	Mr President! I took the floor because Minister Vanhanen nodded at the time when we were talking about these different practices which currently exist in the EU, because some countries are now interpreting these VAT invoices differently from others or go to zero rates. Has this kind of general discussion now been conducted within the EU, which now belong to this kind of area, which can be counted in this crisis situation? It seems that these practices are not in any way coordinated. It would probably be in Finland's interest to have a more coordinated system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u35	Mr President! With this rebate, which is what we are talking about here, the Commission has defined very precisely where this duty-free can be taken, and of course it gives the impression that the Commission is trying to be precise about these. But the same observation is there that such aspects of a certain flexibility in the Commission's operation are, at the moment, considerably more than normal. And this comment by Mr Kiuru and Mr Heinonen on these medical products: we have to check it out; I personally do not have a definite precise interpretation here. But I would also stress that, when a rapid situation came to a stage in which we really need a lot of masks, real competition, with a large number of producers on the move, supply in existence, has had many, many times more impact on the prices of consumer products — and this also applies to handcrafts — than we will ever be able to influence through the tax-related percentages regulation. Fortunately, in this respect, the market is functioning and relatively quickly, however, the manufacturers of products have been able to reach volumes that also have an impact on prices. This is certainly something that all consumers have been able to see for themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u36	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u37	Mr President! This proposal, which is in line with the Government Programme, is included in the Government Programme under the heading ‘Taxation to encourage employment and enterprise’. This was already being prepared during the previous government term. The aim of the proposal is to facilitate the inclusion of employees in the company by means of taxation and thus the possibility to commit staff to the company. The new regulation can also help attract foreign experts to Finland, especially in start-ups, but of course the operation is widely available in all unlisted companies, i.e. non-listed companies. In practice, regulation is implemented in such a way that the share issue of the majority of employees does not generate taxable income if the employee pays a price corresponding to the mathematical value of the share in the company. A subscription price below a mathematical value would constitute a taxable advantage in the form of earned income. The amendment specifically concerns employee contributions, not employee options. The fact that this should apply to the majority of staff is to prevent this being used only as a remuneration system for individuals, such as management representatives, and it is defined how this mathematical value is calculated. It also aims to prevent tax evasion. And then, in those situations where a person sells such a share entered in the personnel issue later, the provisions in force on capital gains apply to the sale. The proceeds from the sale of shares are capital income subject to tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u38	Mr President! This government bill or the law that comes from it can rightly be called Lex Sipilä. As early as the last term of the government, a comprehensive study was carried out on this issue and the Government Programme for this period then agreed that the Government would implement the new legislation on the remuneration of staff of unlisted growth companies on the basis of the model that was prepared during the last term of the government. Mr President! The proposal provides for a new Article 66a of the Income Tax Act on non-listed equity entities. According to the proposed provision, taxable earned income would only be generated in so far as the subscription price is below the mathematical value calculated for the shares of the company in accordance with the Law on the Valuation of Assets on the basis of the last established financial statements. The subscription price would therefore not be compared to the fair value of the shares but to the mathematical value of the shares in accordance with the Law on the Valuation of Assets. These valuation methods can lead to significantly different outcomes. The mathematical value of the company’s assets in accordance with the Valuation Act is obtained by dividing the net assets calculated according to the Company Valuation Act by the number of outstanding shares. Net assets are largely based on undepreciated acquisition costs in the income tax of the company’s assets. These do not fully reflect the accounting balance sheet values, but are often quite close to them. In practice, the proposed provision of Article 66a of the Income Tax Act allows the subscription of shares at a price corresponding to the share of the assets in the company’s balance sheet. The fair value of the share, on the other hand, is based on comparative transactions or on the average return and substance values, i.e. the expected return on the company’s fair value in addition to its balance sheet assets. For example, in companies providing digital services, it is typical that the company’s balance sheet is not committed to significant capital, but the company’s profitability expectations are considerable. Article 66a of the Income Tax Act proposed in this case could allow the company’s employees, without tax consequences, to subscribe for shares, which is significantly lower than the fair value of the shares. The purpose of the proposal is therefore to facilitate the operation of growth and start-ups by enabling them to commit their employees with a new share incentive system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u39	Mr President! Any honest means of enabling national capitalism and people's self-determination in business are to be welcomed, and so is the government's proposal in that sense. As Kiviranta here presented this model of formation, it was discussed here. The important point, of course, is what came out of the minister's presentation, including that there is no room for tax evasion here, but, on the contrary, the aim is to encourage people and businesses to commit themselves to the staff. When you are involved in your own wallet business, your interest in the development of a business, understanding its operations, cost structures, markets, sales is always greater than if you do not have this connection. It was mentioned here that this issue has started in the last parliamentary term, and that is what it is. Thank you especially for the mention of Prime Minister Sipilä and Petteri Orpo, the Minister of Finance, who made a strong contribution within the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u40	Mr President! When the motion was read, it seemed that I saw a business-friendly proposal from the left-wing government, but then the finance minister, Vanhanen himself, reminded me that this proposal was well prepared by the previous government. At the time, under the leadership of Prime Minister Sipilä and the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, this proposal at the VM was very much prepared, and it is good that not even this has now been pulled into a scrap heap, because committed personnel, Mr President, are among the most important elements of successful business. After all, this is a small additional commitment for unlisted growth companies, which could be used to recruit specifically growth-oriented companies and then to attract skilled personnel, and this possibility of holding shares is likely to serve as a good incentive here. It will then also help to encourage workers to be prepared at the growth stage to give perhaps even a little bit of effort to the company, knowing that at some point there may be fruit of success coming from there. This model of inclusion is very welcome and worthy of support. This is therefore precisely to commit skilled personnel and, as the Minister of Finance, Mr Vanhanen, said, possibly also to attract foreign experts to Finland and to companies operating in Finland as a staff member, but also to become shareholders through this. An excellent presentation and a small reminder of how business-friendly policies can be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u41	Mr President! When there's cause for it, you have to be commended. In this way, this proposal for the taxation of personnel allowances for non-listed limited liability companies, which has been put forward in the referral debate today, could be described. And the background to this proposal is, as has been mentioned several times, the work of former Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister of Finance Orpo, who specifically wanted to strengthen the competitiveness of Finnish companies. Fortunately, the present government has wanted to continue this work with this government proposal. Why, then, Mr President, is it justified to make such a change at a time when, in many ways, we are experiencing a difficult corona pandemic? The reason for this is precisely the corona crisis itself and raising Finland to a growth path as soon as possible after the corona crisis. In order to create this new growth, start-ups, especially our highest competence segments, such as digitalisation, have a significant role to play, but it has so far been difficult, for tax reasons in particular, to commit their growth critical foreign experts to companies. Now this proposal will change as long as the proposal is made available after thorough but rapid discussion. At the same time, Mr President, I hope that this proposal will encourage the government and, above all, the Prime Minister, who is courageously recognising the colour, to seek new instruments to defend the competitiveness of Finnish expertise and work. It is good that the government is implementing a reduction in the electricity tax which is important for the forestry industry to the EU minima, but all of their other means should be on the table at the moment. One thing that is still very much to be welcomed is increasing local reconciliation in the labour market to cut the rise in labour prices faster than in our other competitor countries. We have a common goal here: saving Finland's economy and Finnish jobs and thus prosperity for future generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u42	Mr President! Indeed, we are dealing with the personnel issue of non-listed companies, and this has really been prepared during the previous term of the government, and it is a great thing that the Centre has brought this into this government programme and we are getting this government proposal here today. Indeed, the aim is to promote the ability of non-listed companies to invest in human resources and to clarify the valuation of the share in the personnel issue. In the current situation, there are problems with the timing of taxation or the valuation of shares in an unlisted company, especially where a venture investor has invested in the company. The reform provides companies' employees with a favourable fiscal opportunity to subscribe to shares of an unlisted employer in the personnel issue. However, the condition is that this benefit is available by a majority of the staff. Mr President! In this way of calculating the staff issue of unlisted limited liability companies, as indicated above by Kiviranta, this method of implementation is graphically effective when the valuation is simple, i.e. the mathematical value is simple to calculate, whereas the fair value used so far is almost complex to calculate. The valuation will therefore be much clearer and based on the company's assets. Of course, it would be desirable for companies to take advantage of this opportunity. We need more dedicated growth owners in Finland, a spirit of entrepreneurship. Skilled and committed employees are the most important resource of the company. In the future, taxation will provide a clear incentive to take advantage of this. The reform can encourage the remuneration of the employee through the share issue and thus improve the commitment of the experts to companies. New tax carrots can also be used to attract excellence to Finland, for example. The game industry and start-ups. The aim is also to target regulation specifically on the incentives of the company’s employees, and it is not intended to create a tax advantage in the way in which the company’s ownership is organised more widely. The company’s return-based value and increase would be taxed at the time of the transfer, and the sale of the share entered in the personnel issue would be subject to the provisions in force on capital gains. The proceeds from the sale of shares are taxable capital income. Mr President! This is important in this time when we really have a variety of types of unemployment, the way we inspire people to engage in business and new businesses. This reform may not revolutionise the world, but it is an important opportunity for unlisted companies who want to take advantage of this commitment by skilled personnel.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u43	Mr President! Over the years, Finland has moved towards national capitalism with relatively slow but determined steps. This government proposal is a small but important step towards national capitalism, or perhaps in this case, one can say, human and labour capitalism. The government's proposal to regulate the taxation of personnel allowances for non-listed limited liability companies was in preparation, as has been said here today, already during Prime Minister Sipilä's term of office, and it is now proceeding on the basis of this clarified model. The city centre renewed the target in the previous parliamentary elections, and it was there that we sought to introduce such a Finnish model in order to facilitate employees' share ownership. This was part of the economic and tax policies of the city centre, and it is now a pleasure to note that this policy is being implemented. The work produces results, and determined influence works. As the previous speaker mentioned, this is not the biggest issue in the world, but nevertheless an important signal and opportunity for these unlisted companies. In the future, growth companies will be able to use the human resources issue to commit skilled personnel, and this is above all a signal that entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship and risk-taking will pay off. Mr President! Finnish competitiveness, labour productivity, the sense of work and the opportunity to make, invent, innovate and sell are key to improving Finnish competitiveness. All acts, even small acts, form a whole and improve the competitiveness that has been discussed here today and which I am sure the whole Chamber is concerned about. If we make not only small reforms like this but also major reforms, we will at the same time improve the prospects for the future of the entire Finnish welfare state, and this proposal is an important step towards this kind of labour capitalism of growth companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u44	Mr President! This proposal, with its objectives, is essentially a fully supported legislative reform and contributes to the commitment of workers, particularly in SMEs. Why did I say that it is only largely to be supported? In fact, when I listened to my colleague, Pirttilahti, who also referred to what was stated in the draft law’s objectives, he said that ‘the purpose is not to create a more favourable tax approach to corporate ownership’. Well, what's the opposite? Well, the opposite is that a tax-disadvantaged way is being created. I believe that this sentence must be a childhood, and I believe that this is not the way the government has intended it. I would ask the government parties to pay further attention to this point. This has been the subject of a consultation in the spring of winter, with a total of twenty opinions. The Finnish Entrepreneurs were one of these speakers, and I thought in my own speech to look at the statements made by Finnish Entrepreneurs because SY is the largest central organisation in the business world, which is more than 115,000 member companies, and they play a very central role in this legislative reform. The SY suggests, inter alia, that ‘it would be good to ensure that the price required for the change of the law is not higher than the price that the law has allowed,for example,that non-listed companies In addition,it suggested that ‘the law may also apply when own shares They had a few other comments on it in their own statement, but I would ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen: how are these statements and comments taken into account in this final proposal? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u45	Mr President! The purpose of the Government Programme is to enable companies to commit their personnel with shares with lower fair value that would not be considered earnings. On the other hand, profits from these options would only be taxed as capital income when any profit is realised. From the perspective of the Left Alliance, the government proposal is not entirely without problems, especially when tax treatment would apply to all unlisted limited companies and not just to growth companies, as agreed in the Government Programme, thus increasing the risk of tax base leakage. If the taxpayer moves abroad before the sale of the shares, Finland does not have the right to tax the gain. This proposal is acceptable in itself, but it would require a tax on the exit of natural persons to be imposed on its counterpart, and the report of which has been awaited for further action. However, taxation is a whole, and in Finland taxation has started to leak more and more for those who would also have the best ability to pay taxes. If some can avoid taxes altogether, then of course the rest, we all stay in Finland, then pay more taxes. Our job here in Parliament is to ensure that the law itself does not encourage free travel. At a time when the international and European Union has at times been rather painfully slow in filling the tax base leaks, we should learn from the best practices in other countries in Finland, for example, in the exit taxes that are in place in the control countries, and ensure a broad tax base that can not only finance the welfare state but also lower the level of taxation. As Mr Östman said here, it is not supposed to be bad tax treatment, but it is probably meant to be fair and not to offer different bypasses, which can then avoid taxation altogether. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u46	Then Mr Suomela and then Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u47	Mr President! In recent weeks, much has been said about how to build up the wealth of more and more Finns. It has been recognised that it is precisely in Finland that the wealth gap has grown strongly in recent decades, even though many parties have had a strong desire to distribute wealth more evenly to everyone and also to make the lower incomes richer. The wealth of the wealthiest per cent has increased almost fivefold since the 1990s, while at the same time the wealth of 90% has not increased much. There has been much talk of national capitalism, but action seems to be taking us in a different direction. That is why it is always important to see what the real effects of a performance are. So not only do we have to look at noble purposes, but we also have to see how a performance is likely to work there in everyday life. Well, here's where this staff allowance looks very promising. First of all, the limitation that the grant must be open to the majority of the employees of the company really ensures that this is not used as a means to reward management alone, but that genuine personnel have the opportunity to own part of the company in which they work. Mr Vanhanen raised this very well in the presentation, and this is indeed a key feature of this. This has been in our legislation before, and it is good that this is now being maintained. It is the way in which the valuation of the share is carried out that is essential for growth companies. It is often quite challenging in growth companies, and if we try to find what that market price could be, it can quickly become unimportant. That is why it is good that this is the basis of the mathematical value. This will ensure better predictability and clearer treatment when growth companies start to ensure that when a company grows, when a company succeeds, staff can also benefit from it. Now that the question arises whether there is a tax advantage or a disadvantage, I personally think that such a question of assessing the value of a share is rather a question of how to get close to a value that is meaningful for its whole. I do not think it is possible to say that this use of mathematical value is somehow an advantage or disadvantage, but it is now just the most sensible way of assessing the value on which taxation is to be based, so that predictability and the smart treatment of companies is guaranteed and that staffing allowances are not at least dependent on not knowing what happens to workers' taxation when it is done. So, in my opinion, this takes Finland in a very good direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u48	Representative Hillhead before Secretary Vanha.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u49	Mr President! Mr Saramo began to talk about the exit tax in connection with this good dossier, and I think that we should all be more concerned in this Chamber as to why those people or companies are leaving this country. It's not that someone goes out and gets taxed or if the company goes out... I don't know, maybe Saramo meant private individuals, but I'm really worried about why companies are leaving Finland. This morning I got a call from Estonia. There one entrepreneur told me how things are going well there and fuel costs 0.924, a Finnish company that has felt too taxed here. They have had 60 employees in Finland, now they have a hard drive in Estonia and 120 employees. In other words, when considering the exit tax, it is better to consider whether we are doing something wrong here. I think we should all get to know something like the Laffer curve. I am concerned that taxation in Finland is so high that even Finnish state-owned companies no longer buy products in Finland. I have had a small chance, or a little curiosity I have visited when Fingrid is building a power grid in Finland. There is a section of about 300 kilometres on the way to Kainuu, where these poles, on which these wires are hung, come from far from Finland. In other words, if a Finnish company, a state-owned company, is unable to use Finnish work, the Finnish metal industry in its own building of the electricity network, something has been seriously wrong, and that is why I think that you are all in favour of considering whether we already have too much tax. I am very concerned about this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u50	Before continuing the debate, I would like to say that we are dealing with a government proposal for a regulation on the taxation of personnel allowances for non-listed limited liability companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u51	Mr President! This is precisely where the exit tax is very directly linked. I'm afraid it's a representative. The hillhead may not be familiar with exit tax. In the Western countries, exit taxes have been imposed in general, precisely because for tax reasons it is not worth moving away from the country so that it can be possible to pay the taxes in full. If taxes are paid when you receive income, then no exit tax is imposed, but only if you have managed to transfer taxation. It is here that we are dealing with a bill that allows tax to be transferred, and the idea of an exit tax is that, patriotically, that tax is taxed on everyone and not encouraged to move abroad. I personally do not know whether Estonia should now become a dream country here in Finland. It must be remembered, however, that when we talk about employment, for example, employment in Estonia is more expensive than in Finland. If you take into account the number of Estonians who have to work in Finland, families are waiting for you there on the Estonian side when you are looking for a living in Finland, you must note, however, that there is still quite a bit of a back way for Estonia. It is certainly true that we can learn something from Estonia, but taxation is certainly not one of those things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u52	Mr President! It's really good that this was prepared in the previous season, apart from just an idea. It is also worth appreciating that the matter can be brought to a conclusion and implemented. The Marin Government is committed to promoting entrepreneurship and Finnish work. There is also a strong point in the programme to promote domestic ownership, and this is a good part of it — although this is not tied to nationality, as it does not need to be, which may also apply to foreign workers. I think it is a good thing that this is at best an advantage for both the company and the employees. In fact, Mrs Suomela asked a good question: what is the value when staff contributions are made? This is the question which, of course, is being considered both by the company when handing out the shares to the employees and by the employees when they think about the risk they are taking. It offers both the opportunity for the entrepreneur and the employees to take advantage and also the possibility of the risk being triggered and lost, and this is a typical setting for everyone who makes investment decisions — to assess whether or not the risk is worth taking and at what price. In this context, it must be said openly that, as the presentation shows, there may be a difference between this mathematical value and the market value, there may be a significant difference, and this mathematical value has been consciously chosen. This is precisely what favours start-ups, start-ups, start-ups in the growth phase, start-ups in the early stages. I believe that this will be the most widely used in them, more than in established companies. It is important that there are no unjustified tax advantages here either. The presentation takes into account the fact that the company can also use the shares held under this scheme, put them on the market in the case of the personnel issue. Thank you for the good debate so far, and it seems that there will be broad support for this in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u53	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-02-ps-106.u54	Mr President! This requires the most extensive presentation of the laws before us today. It is proposed to amend the law on the banking and payment account control system. This original proposal was submitted as early as April 19 and came into force more than a year ago at the beginning of May, but Articles 4 and 5 of the Law. However, it has only been applied since the beginning of September, when the introduction of the Customs Account Register took place. Legal errors and shortcomings have been identified in the provisions of the Act during the development of the Customs Account Register project, for which it is necessary to amend the Act. In some respects, the regulation on information to be disclosed and stored in the form of existing legislation remains unclear and open to interpretation. The aim of the proposal is to clarify the law on the banking and payment account control system by correcting the legal errors found in the law, to clarify the definitions of the law in the second place and to clarify the obligations of the various actors with regard to the information to be transmitted through the data-search system and to be entered in the bank and payment account register. Amendments to the law will contribute to the consistent application of the law and to the achievement of the objectives of the law. This, like the previous bill, was given at a stage where the government was unable to submit these proposals to Parliament. In fact, both here and in the law I have just presented, the entry into force provision has already passed, which means that Parliament will then have to decide on the date of entry into force according to how these laws will be put into effect. - Thank you.
