ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 3/2020 vp. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response. The relevant votes will take place today at the end of the general debate. To the extent that no amendments to the draft amending budget have been proposed, it shall be deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u2	Mr President! There is a lot of unique and new things going on in exceptional circumstances. A uniquely large additional budget is also at stake here, and in decades probably the biggest changes in Parliament were made for reasons of these exceptional circumstances to the basic government proposal. After all, this whole has to do with the economic rescue package that the government agreed on last week. This is where the biggest billions of dollars are devoted to Finnvera's guarantee and financing package possibilities, and the legislative proposals for them will be brought up later. But immediate budgetary needs have then been included in the Government's draft amending budget. They are addressed to the administrative branches of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. More funding was also presented to the Ministry of the Interior for the operating expenses of the police, Border Guard and Rescue Services. These funds, which are perhaps the main focus of attention, were to increase the powers of aid granted by Business Finland and Ely Centres to companies in the event of disruption. The basic proposal proposed a total increase of EUR 200 million. Significant for the country's safety and air connections was the Government's proposal to grant a state guarantee of up to EUR 600 million in capital to Ilmarinen, a pension insurance company, to secure the repayment of Finnair's occupational pensions. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has considered the additions which have been made widely, and indeed unanimously, in order to mitigate the effects of the corona virus on society and businesses. The effects of the Corona virus and its limitation on the spread have been very strong, especially on the business field, and activity and revenue flow in many sectors have even stalled in the short term. The organisation of health services has also significantly increased service and resource needs. This rapid change in the situation will then be accompanied by a significant increase in the need for appropriations over the last few days from what it was when the draft amending budget was adopted. The Committee on Finance therefore proposes that resources be increased several times to support business, as well as significantly to provide the Supply Security Agency with supplies. Even at this stage, the proposal for an add-on budget, adjusted and supplemented, only responds to acute pain spots. It is therefore clear that the government must continue to respond quickly to the necessary budgetary needs. The committee and Parliament should also be informed flexibly about the allocation of available resources. The Committee also draws attention to the responsible behaviour of companies and considers it important that state aid be conditional so that companies receiving public aid do not, for example, at the same time distribute dividends to their owners. These subsidies, which are proposed to be allocated through both Business Finland and Ely Centres for bridge financing by companies, are in the sense that they are based on keeping staff at work, salaries, other staff related expenses and then on such fixed expenses as companies have. At the same time, companies will be encouraged to renew so that a significant part of this aid can be classified as innovation and development aid if and when it is able to open up new types of operating models and new jobs to the company under difficult conditions. In this context, the Committee also highlights the increased resource needs of the Social Insurance Institution. According to the survey, for example, the increase in benefits and customer service is estimated to result in an additional cost of approximately EUR 39 million for Kela this year and the share of central government shares would be approximately EUR 30 million. But these and many other budgetary needs will certainly be restored in the context of the next additional budget. The state of local government finances must also be strengthened in the future and ways of supporting cultural activities, among other things. The increase in appropriations proposed by the committee amounts to EUR 686.5 million, and the committee also proposes an increase of EUR 800 million in grants, which is the fivefold that was mentioned in the previous debate. Following the changes proposed by the committee, the draft amending budget for 2020 will increase the need for net government borrowing by around EUR 1.1 billion, and the net state borrowing is estimated to be around EUR 3.3 billion this year, but this figure will certainly change with the forthcoming additional budgets. Among these forms of business financing: Business Finland's share of distribution is increasing most, and that is also true of the fact that the need is really urgent: within a few days, by 25 March, some EUR 368 million has already been requested for funding, and the need for support is estimated to continue to increase as the disturbances caused by the corona virus are increasingly affecting different sectors. This is accompanied by the urgent need to increase appropriations already here in Parliament's deliberations. Similarly, the Ely Centres are preparing for a new, as it were, wider opportunity to support the lifeline of smaller enterprises with between 1 and 5 employees and are preparing a de minimis financial instrument. It would be intended for small and medium-sized enterprises for which the corona virus has caused exceptional market and production failures and would in particular ensure liquidity and access to corporate finance. If the conditions for profitable activities in the future, in normal times, exist, funding could be available for situational analysis or development measures. It will be possible to open them as soon as possible, and the amendment to the regulation that will emerge in the coming weeks will allow for greater advances and a higher percentage of aid. The previous debate addressed this control of communicable diseases, with an increase of EUR 26 million in the purchase of direct testing equipment and other medical devices, increased information and awareness-raising for citizens and the maintenance of laboratory capacity. However, according to a report received by the committee, the need for additional resources from the Emergency Supply Agency has increased considerably since the presentation, as the consumption of protective equipment has been higher than expected. It has also emerged that the preparedness of social and health care operators has been very uneven, although the national pandemic plan requires health care institutions to keep at least 3 to 6 months’ normal consumption of protective equipment and other essential health care supplies. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health decided on 23. Following the introduction of emergency medical materials and protective equipment in the social and health care sector on 1 March, it is necessary to start additional supplies of medical materials and protective equipment on the basis of an assessment of needs. According to a report received by the committee, a country-wide needs assessment shows that the total value of the procurement is EUR 31 million, i.e. at this stage, these most urgent procurements. As a result, the value of material supplies for social and health care security has increased to around EUR 40 million instead of EUR 6 million previously estimated, and an increase of EUR 34 million is therefore proposed. This summation result for the loan means that the required net borrowing will amount to almost EUR 1.1 billion this year. These issues of central government balance and the future will be returned to the budgetary plan in the coming months. This is still happening in the midst of the crisis, and I am sure that it will not be possible to show certain ways forward then, but it is important that, even in the middle of the crisis, we start to think about how to deal with these pitfalls in the years to come. As a whole, the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Finance is that Parliament approves the proposal for an amending budget for 2020 contained in the Government proposal just now and with the above changes, and that Parliament rejects the amending budget initiatives, which included eight, and decides that the 2020 amending budget will be applied quickly, with effect from 31 March 2020. There are three objections to the report,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u3	Thank you. — I would like to say that I am not going to carry out a long debate today, that we are going to take these requests to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u4	Mr President! Koronapandemia shakes the whole world and also Finland. The amending budget has a number of good and in-depth additional appropriations for several items and these are to be welcomed. However, I am concerned about some of the issues I wish to raise here. First of all, with regard to information, this has challenged society as a whole. There is a great need for information for the population, and it is particularly challenging to communicate information about protection to all citizens. In particular, in the case of personal illness or symptoms, it is important to contact service providers. That is why adequate resources for helplines are also very important for preventing the spread of the epidemic. Unfortunately, it is not at a good level at the moment and there are differences across Finland. More attention should be paid to this in terms of national guidance and allocation of resources. The second point is the protective equipment for staff, which was put forward in this amending budget. The Assembly proposed an increase in this area and the committee agreed with it — thanks for that. Demand and demand for protective equipment such as gloves, protections and mouth-nose protections have increased exponentially. The protection of medical personnel is one of the most important issues in the fight against coronavirus epidemics, and the necessary protective equipment is very much used in the care of patients. If we really want to prevent the spread of the disease, enough of these protective equipment is needed. They are needed in hospitals, but they are also needed in primary health care, care for the elderly, sampling. It must also be noted that we have other professional groups who may in such situations need protective equipment such as policemen, garrisons, border guards and many others who have contacts where there is a risk of infection. Of course, this time has also brought about the provision of such equipment by ordinary people. In particular, access to them is now of paramount importance for social and health care operators to keep them healthy and to work with the sick. The third point is the number of tests which have originally been far too small, and partly its fruit we are now collecting. It is never too late, and it is good that more testing has now been promised. They must continue to be increased, and their availability throughout Finland must also be increased. In particular, social and health care staff should be on a low threshold to be tested, as for medical personnel who treat otherwise critically ill patients or patients with underlying diseases, such as cancer patients or those who are on anti-immune medication or anti-cancer treatments — they are at a particular risk of disease — as well as, of course, children with such a situation. A significant increase in testing and asymptomatic testing should be carried out for these care professionals. We need more home help. The elderly must continue to be cared for while they are at home and make sure that there are adequate protective equipment in the home care system. Also, efforts should be made to reduce the number of contacts in home care so that the minimum number of nurses would always be at the same site that they would not carry the infections with them. Everyone's livelihood must also be safeguarded, and it is therefore necessary to increase Kela's budget to enable them to respond to the increase in this amount of benefit application. Unfortunately, that is what is missing from this amending budget. Hopefully, more resources will be available for this in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u5	Mr President! This report is accompanied by Christian Democrats protest No 3, signed by Mrs Essayah, who will present this in more detail. I would now like to draw my own attention to one point in our protest, namely testing. Testing is the key to slowing down the spread of the corona virus, because only by testing can we know how these disease chains run and can effectively direct isolation measures to the right targets. In other words, we need to be able to identify the sick in order to isolate them and target them in a timely manner. It is essential to be able to increase this testing. In fact, mistakes have already been made in the fact that not enough has been tested so far. There has been a very high threshold for access to these tests and it is particularly harmful for health care workers. In the future, it would be important not only to carry out this diagnostic testing but also to have blood antibodies tested, as this will help to determine the number of people with the disease in the population. This in itself is not helpful in this actual diagnosis, but it is clear from the time it takes to produce antibodies, when it is also known when the sample should be taken, and if a person has this high level of antibody, he or she will be able to work more safely in the future in risk areas. This will also speed up the release of medical staff to work, precisely those for whom it is known that they will not spread the disease. And then, Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to this adequacy of protective equipment. It is unfortunate, though, that even for those with corona disease, medical staff do not have enough protective equipment as instructed so that they can change these protections more frequently and in this way also protect themselves and then protect other patients. So this is another important point in our protest. Mr President! I therefore propose that objection No 3 be taken as the basis for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u6	Mr President! We're going through a major crisis. Interest is a health crisis, but it is also an economic crisis. It is a crisis for people personally, a human crisis, it is a crisis for workers, for entrepreneurs. For many people, life collapses and the bottom falls away. We live in such tough times. Mr President! This amending budget contains good things. It is very important that we now support businesses that are becoming unemployed, who are in trouble, and also the health sector in particular. The fact that our pandemic plan has been last updated in 2012 and is, in fact, also reflected in this committee's report confuses me enormously. It is said here that the consumption of protective equipment is higher than expected, and this statement has also shown that the preparedness of social and health care operators has been very uneven in the case of these protective equipment. Although the national pandemic plan would require health institutions to keep at least a minimum of 3 to 6 months of normal consumption in emergency stocks, it may be that this pandemic plan has been somewhat forgotten, after all, since 2012, and perhaps it has not been understood to think about it and to expect that we can actually have a global pandemic and then we are in trouble. Mr President! Apart from protecting staff — nurses, doctors — it is also very important that we all protect ourselves and others and remember these hygiene rules, safety intervals and washing hands. Getting information is very important. We've had this corona phone. It's very important that that phone works 24/7. I don't know if it's already working on Sundays, but the last time I found out it wasn't, and it's very important that it's also the most sacred because the corona doesn't sleep in the holidays and people don't worry. People have a great deal to worry about. And as far as the world is concerned, including America and Britain, suicides have increased because people are distressed by what is happening in the world. Help needs to be provided, and the response to the call must be sought, and I would like to see special attention paid to this, as well as to this emergency number that people are calling in the region - we have this on-call number in the HUS area, which does not work everywhere in Finland. It's important that those phone numbers be displayed. Mr President! The number of breathing machines has risen to a worrying point in the debate. In 2009, we had swine flu, and it was already said that we lack breathing machines but also staff who could use them. This is a question of eternity. There must be more training, but the salaries of carers must also be such that when you are well trained and have special skills, it is taken into account and seen in that salary. It wonders how it was not learned from swine flu and even then thought about increasing the number of breathing machines. They're to be ordered now. And what's the price of a ventilator right now? I found this information in 1990 — it was still markka time — that it was 50,000 marks. Breathing machines are at huge prices and it is important, however, to allocate that resource in order to generate more of them. In the protest of our Finns, we are proposing a further EUR 50 million of resources for the article on health and functional ability — including control of communicable diseases. The interest test plays a very important role when we talk about prevention and the fact that, for example, nurses when they go to work do not infect the disease. It is extremely important to increase testing and allocate a large number of resources. That's the only way we can protect each other. Mr President! I wish both the government and all of us great strength in the midst of this crisis, especially wisdom, but also foresight. 24.1. I asked the first written question on the subject in which I asked about the measures, and it was answered on 17 February. Think, just a hunch for over a month, and we are in this situation. People went on ski vacations. No one warned or told you to think about going, the corona is raging around the world. Instead, they encouraged you to leave. To go skiing in Lapland, there's no danger of going on a trip. In my opinion, this was one big mistake that happened. People should have been warned and wise from afar that you should not go anywhere but stay home, namely the virus is actually coming. What we learn from this is later the time for that speculation, but certainly a lot. And we will act even more effectively in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u7	Thank you. — Representatives, I hope you will take into account the fact that we have certain rules. That is why we are so few in this Chamber and are happy to keep the security gap between all of us so that the disease does not spread. Sitting next to each other is the most dangerous place in this room.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u8	Mr President! It is now essential to ensure that everything that can be done is done for the health, well-being and livelihood of people, and this really requires society as a whole. The state is now doing its part with a package of more than 15 billion, but at the same time action is also needed in municipalities, businesses, ely centres, all over this society. Only together can we get over this. This package is now just the beginning of the government. There's more coming. This report by the Committee on Finance identifies, among other things, the additional needs of Kela, the municipalities and the cultural field, which the Government is certainly about to address. In my view, a good model for this flexible cooperation is that the committee has now proposed increases in aid to businesses, for example. After all, the committee has now put a total of 800 million more on top of the government's proposal in order to make sure that Finland has vitality, jobs and a diverse business field in the future. In addition, 34 million was added on top of the government’s proposal for these medical needs. Many have rightly been concerned about how we can get enough people tested. More importantly, how do we manage enough people? This increase in testing is, after all, a common priority, but unfortunately the situation is that there is already a shortage of the necessary equipment on a global scale. The virus is new, new methods are being developed all the time. That is why it is great that Finland is involved in this international cooperation. This is a completely new setting, and now, together, we can get over it and increase the testing capacity. This can be seen as a common priority. Some speakers have expressed a small amount of voice that is sufficient to identify the importance of testing. As far as I can see, this has actually been identified and everyone is working hard to increase the number of tests. But here, while we are indeed investing in health care, this first package is also intended to respond to it in order to save businesses and jobs. It is indeed a multiplicity of packages. Firstly, the livelihood of entrepreneurs will be facilitated. If and when the interest rate completely deprives many of them of their livelihood, there is a much more flexible possibility of unemployment security. This will be particularly helpful to those self-employed who have previously been completely excluded from such social security. Then the Ely Centres will be able to provide support to small businesses. It develops flexible procedures in cooperation with municipalities. Regulations will be adopted to further facilitate the granting of aid. And now that there has been a great deal of concern about how to support these smallest companies, I think, for example, that today's message to the Committee on Finance was quite encouraging. Hard work is being done at local and regional level to mobilise money specifically for the smallest companies there. In particular, it was encouraging that Business Finland’s machine already works quite smoothly. Decisions can be made quickly, and it is already known that it will actually save Finnish companies as well. At the same time, of course, this speed is based on trust and responsibility. Of course, we assume that only those companies are now looking for the money that is absolutely needed. That is why it is always worrying if there are votes that others are now applying for these subsidies. In my opinion, Finnish companies can be trusted. We can be confident that everyone will understand that only by acting together, acting responsibly, now will we be able to target the aid to those who most need it. Then I'm sure some of these Finnvera loans are the most effective and effective option. After all, there is now going to be a massive increase in the guarantee mandate, a total of EUR 12 billion, and a large number of large companies will receive support. So, in a way, the government has gone through the whole business field from the small freelancers to the biggest players, and more is being sought all the time, in my view, in the best possible cooperation with the opposition, with the local government, with all the other actors in this society. At the same time, it is essential to ensure that the livelihoods of their unemployed Finns have also been secured. They were told from Kela last week that they were ready to bend. The government is constantly looking for more ways and solutions to ensure that all workers who are laid off or laid off are actually given the necessary income, which is, however, a fundamental right. At the same time, care will be taken about the functioning of both health services and social services, so that no one is left alone with their anxiety or health problems during this time, be it a physical health problem or a mental health problem. It has been great to see that the organisation field also bears responsibility for, for example, improving the efficiency of helpline phones, and surely in the future it will be considered that there will also be sufficient resources for the organisation field. But here's the thing. This is just the first whole. Surely, in good cooperation, we will be able to get them through smoothly and make sure that we can get through this together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u9	Mr President! First of all, I support Mrs Räsänen's proposal that this objection No 3 be taken as the basis for the debate and the corresponding proposals. The Christian Democrats are broadly satisfied with this government's amending budget, but there are a number of points where we particularly want to see further efforts and precisely those which, from the point of view of the events of recent days and the facts that have come to light, should now be dealt with as a matter of urgency. In this situation, the state must really do everything in its power to ensure that health care and other essential functions of society receive the resources they need. At the same time, however, the government must take immediate action to reduce the financial impact of these restrictive measures. Municipalities, businesses, private people are losing their livelihoods, all need immediate support to overcome this difficult situation, otherwise there will be a large-scale wave of bankruptcy and long-term negative effects on employment. Indeed, we do not have time to wait for these measures, but must be targeted and scaled in such a way as to keep the situation under control. And it is also important to send such a strong message that the state will alleviate the problems of sudden economic stagnation. This in itself creates faith in the future for both people and then in business. The government's decision to oblige these people over 70 years of age to isolate themselves is absolutely right, because this decision is precisely aimed at protecting the people for whom this corona virus is the most dangerous. But in this situation, it is important to remember that we need to be able to provide support and the services needed for those who need them, and that is why we need to increase the resources for home care in this situation. Home care workers need protective equipment, and more staff are then needed to replace sick home care workers, and the resources for care for the elderly also need to be increased. Of course, here, different voluntary activities will certainly help — those neighbors who are ready to take a bag of food behind the door and to call and ask how they are doing. Here Mr Räsänen raised this worrying shortage of protective equipment, which is why this KD protest pays particular attention to the fact that the increase in appropriations is directed at the purchase of these protective equipment and that domestic production needs to be initiated and increased. The decision to open up these security of supply stocks and centralise procurement is correct and necessary, but there is also a clear need for further investment in this situation. Another issue related to this health care is the need for rapid staff training and more staff. And we must also try to increase this testing activity, because we need to be able to identify those who are affected so that they can be effectively isolated and then targeted for timely treatment. This extensive testing has played a major role in those countries where they have been able to reverse these contagion curves. The maintenance of internal security is always emphasised in such crisis situations. The Government's proposal also increases the budget of the police and the Border Guard, but these additions are very limited, taking into account these recent legislative proposals, which will then try to keep this region of Uusimaa separate from the rest of Finland and prevent these specific disease chains from moving from here to the rest of Finland. It is therefore important that further efforts be made in these areas too — the Christian Democrats have both aspects, both for the police and for the Border Guard. And, of course, we will also invest in this point of enterprise, although in that committee we did a good job and indeed it did 800 million, as an addition to the committee, and that is why we are, above all, trying to meet these small and medium-sized enterprises. The Christian Democrats see that it is really important to invest in this item, and yet a small addition to it is made, precisely because there are companies there with which the cash crisis is acute at the moment, and these companies are running out of money. We just have to hope that these systems of ours will now be such that they will be able to respond as quickly as possible to this situation. Mr President! Here is a general alternative to Christian Democrats. This also includes seven separate statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u10	Mr President! Of course, in this situation, it is clear and extremely important that all measures are taken before health. But quite soon after health issues comes concern about the economy, livelihoods and so on, and I am very pleased that there is now a clear increase in funding for Business Finland and Ely Centres. And the third party involved is Finnvera, of course, but perhaps it is good to say that the money that goes through Finnvera to the banks is loans and the loans always have to be paid back, and of course the question is that if a company is in a very difficult situation, you do not really see the way out and the vision forward, then you do not really have the courage to borrow it. On the Business Finland side, however, it is a question of what has reached my ears, that if a company happens to have a default marking, then it may not be possible to get that money for reorientation. I would like you, Minister, to draw your attention to these issues. Well, yesterday we had a restaurant business here and the fact that restaurants, cafes, nightclubs and bars will be closed until the end of May. This is, of course, quite a situation for these entrepreneurs, and it must have been a shock for many that the suspension insurance they have taken does not cover pandemic situations and very rarely covers infectious diseases, so they will not be compensated for what they might have imagined. This means that they will have to rely on other bodies, mainly the State, the landlords and other authorities that can help them. The Coalition Party has proposed, among other things, the refund of VAT and support for employers' contributions and other direct payments that the State can influence, because if there is no money in the cash register, then there can also be no action, and it is a matter of a long time for these companies. Mr President! When we talk about this same sector, the restaurant sector employs more than 50,000 people, and if we include the hotel sector, then 90,000 people, so let's not talk about a very small number of people. Of course they also want to do the work they can do, and it is good in that sense that they will continue to be allowed this right to sell out. But there have also been such questions as whether it would be possible to increase the possibilities of selling alcohol outwards. In other words, when we currently have 8400 liquor restaurants, but only 300 of them have the right to sell out, of course the wish is that in such a situation these licences can be granted as quickly as possible. Above all, it is important that these subsidies should be targeted correctly, that they should go to those companies that genuinely need them and who also have a vision of the future, that they should keep their employees and that they should continue to operate after this difficult situation. For example, staff restaurants are now in a better position than small restaurants in the sense that they can continue to operate on condition that they do not sell from there to third parties and also comply with these epidemic-related rules, which relate to people's distance from each other and so on, and other such rules. Mr President! I would also like to raise this actual health issue here. On many occasions we have talked about the lack of these testing equipment or of the testing capacity in general, and it also has an impact on those who, for example, are in quarantine in the homes there: if they are not aware whether they have corona or not, and there may also be people who do not have it, then they are also out of the labour force, which is sorely needed in companies and why not in the various sections of the public sector. Then also protective equipment, breathing machines, and so forth: There is probably no such amount as to be too large or too large in this situation. After all, we must be prepared to see that the situation is still escalating, and we are hardly yet close to the peak of the pandemic wave. Mr President! To the end, another example of what has been planned in Britain, and that is that the local health authority there, with this alert on, has been considering that laid-off persons would be able to offer their work services to the health sector on a voluntary basis for four weeks, to take various measures to help the actual health workforce and care homes for the elderly and so on. I would, of course, like us to consider this possibility as well. We also have people in the private sector who are trained in social services, but not necessarily in the private sector. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u11	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Coalition Party is always ready to cooperate when the situation in the country requires cooperation. We hope that we can also be solutions to the corona crisis together with the government in search and preparation. In such a better way we would be able to commit the whole of Parliament in an exceptionally serious situation. Personally, I am convinced that this crisis will not be over in its entirety, even during this parliamentary term. I hope that the corona epidemic itself has been overturned more quickly, but these effects will be very far-reaching. As I said a moment ago and remembered the 1990s, more than 30,000 Finnish companies fell, mainly because they did not receive direct financial support, and many families are still carrying this pain. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call] Mr President! This economic preparation should now also be taken up in a joint, broad parliamentary debate. We are pleased that you have come very close to the draft amending budgets which have been tabled by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party at this very moment, this morning, and we have been able to see that some of our proposals have already been acknowledged. In my view, it would be important for these amending budgets, which are to come, to be prepared in a broad parliamentary manner in the future. There are extremely important measures coming, for example, to save municipalities in this situation, and I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Kulmun: what is the timetable for this supplementary budget for municipalities to come to Parliament? And then, quite central: do not allow any healthy attempt to die as a result of this corona epidemic. We welcome the fact that in Parliament the government's proposal was now up to fivefold as far as business subsidies are concerned. Business Finland’s contribution is, in our view, sufficient at this stage — probably we will need more of it in the future — but this money for the Ely Centres, i.e. small businesses, is still insufficient, and the group will present an additional 150 million funds for it, which we will vote on shortly. Our objective is that this money can be used specifically for small businesses, for sole proprietorships, for business name entrepreneurs. For example, rents are the type of thing that raises a lot of questions: could you find a way to help these companies pay rent? And then the Coalition Party has submitted VAT refunds in the early part of the year. We hope that you will also take this quickly. That is why we also proposed a further increase in the budget of the Ely Centres — the closure of restaurants and the isolation of Uusimaa. It would be interesting to hear what schedule the government is in response to this Constitutional Committee's demand to bring such a special package to restaurants whose freedom of enterprise and business is severely restricted. Then, as one large entity, there is testing and protection in the corona virus situation. We also welcome this. The Coalition Party proposed a budget of 50 million to increase the level of testing, while the government proposed about half of it, and now the Committee on Budgets allocated a little more than 60 million. We believe it is important that testing should be carried out in order to test the low threshold, especially in the care sector, in the care of the elderly. And also put in place drive-in testing facilities so that they are also low for citizens. Protection equipment is a big question. There have come to be examples of how two masks are given for home care duty, i.e. even between each visit to the customer you can’t change that mask, and you’re in a serious situation. In exceptional circumstances, the coalition is prepared to increase further, but we consider it important that the government informs Parliament and the Committee on Finance about how this money is being used. And the cultural and artistic sector, Taike, to whom the government presented a small additional budget, will need money more quickly to support freelance artists and cultural authors, and our proposal is that Parliament could increase that allocation even further.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u12	Otherwise, the debate will not be allowed, but occasionally I will give the ministers the floor. — Short, one-minute answer, Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u13	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Heinonen for the opportunity to respond to his concern that we also have enough masks for home care. This is a very acute problem. I hope that Parliament will now be united in this matter. In Finland, we cannot afford home care workers to take the corona virus to these very fragile and vulnerable people who are in home care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u16	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Kiuru, and let us hope that this message will now pass through the municipalities. There's a lot of people there who have been given... I could say, near a minister in a town where it has been said that two masks need to get along. But he won't, and then you'll have to get them out of the security lockers now, and then you'll have to tell those nurses, for example, that you don't have to go to work if you don't have it... It is the protection of those elderly people, their patients, but it is also the protection of their employees, and I am very pleased that you raised this point, Minister Kiuru. One city had also given instructions already now that cough and cold have no reason to stay home. I regard it as totally irresponsible in such a situation that we even operate in health management posts, giving instructions in this way. Thank you, Minister Kiuru,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u17	Back to the speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u18	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance for its hard work and a clear-cut report. It's a lot of work, and that's what it's supposed to be. The committee has had a clear crisis awareness. The committee has therefore made additions which are an example of living in time and reacting to the current situation. I also appreciate that significant increases have been made to, for example, Business Finland, Ely Centres and the Security of Supply Centre in relation to the Government's proposal, i.e. more direct support. Business Finland aims to alleviate the economic difficulties caused by this corona virus epidemic to the difficult situation of tourism, creative industries and many other sectors. Thus, the mandates will be increased by EUR 700 million instead of the EUR 150 million proposed by the government, i.e. an increase of EUR 550 million. All this is done because the need for appropriations has proved to be much greater than anticipated. So the number of emergencies has increased. The role of Ely centres, especially at local level, is now very important, for example, in supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. Again, the powers will be increased by EUR 300 million instead of the EUR 50 million proposed by the government, i.e. an increase of EUR 250 million — a very, very necessary act. Minister Lintilä has also made a reasonable suggestion that the growing burden and congestion of ely centres could be mitigated by, for example, channelling liquidity to local economic enterprises, for example, in order to target the help of self-employed people. This would bring speed and clarity to decisions. People do not now have the opportunity to wait, and it is the sole entrepreneurs — café entrepreneurs, gym entrepreneurs, florists, barbers and so on — who are in trouble. An increase of EUR 40 million will be allocated to the supply security centre, which is also a very large and significant increase compared to the government proposal. This, of course, strengthens safeguards and other similar provisions — very sensible. President! So thank you very much for the good crisis package, for raising the direct support of businesses to one billion. So the level is five times higher. Of course, it makes life easier for many SMEs, but the fact is that there is still a long way to go. However, this final flood will make it easier for the Government and Parliament, but above all for Finnish companies, to overcome this crisis. I would also like to see agility and flexibility and clear information that aid treatments would go without heavy formalities and that entrepreneurs would have a clear idea of where to apply now. It is certainly not clear to everyone, for example, where the funding of Business Finland or ely centres is directed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u19	Honorable Speaker! It is nice to see that the whole Parliament is playing the same game. In fact, this report by the committee is in a good direction and, of course, we are in a sort of intermediate phase of two points. On the other hand, we must continue to take strong measures to prevent the spread of the epidemic and, on the other hand, we must prepare ourselves to treat the patients, we must invest in care, we must invest in the home care of the elderly, we must acquire breathing machines and, above all, we must also acquire more knowledge for people. It is well known and well known that there are quite a lot of people in the world themselves who have contracted this disease. We made a 40-point listing with Mr Kankaanniemi and Mr Savio to prevent the spread of the epidemic. The central point is that testing needs to be increased — many have said so here. These antibodies would also have to be tested. This makes it so much easier if we know that someone in the medical staff already has antibodies in their body to this disease. We will add 50 million to this, and then we will also propose that small additions be made to the defence and to the police: 2 million for the defence and 5 million for the police. When we go into this financial support — this is quite an essential thing — we have, of course, these loan guarantee elements. Then there's Business Finland. Now we're going to drive there and to the Ely Centres, just under 800 million more here. The key thing that has been observed and thought about here is that the Ely Centres need to be used more. The Ely Centers are the key word now. Now the situation is that we have to save those small companies, that is the key to this. How can we save them, and how can we handle those applications? The essential thing is to involve the municipalities. People on municipal payroll must assist companies to submit the applications that they will then process at some point. The union of municipalities must become clear guidelines. We are going to add 250 million to this. Let us hope that there will then be more in the additional budget at some point. What am I gonna do when I walk out of this gym? I'll call you over there. In the city of Oulu to the CFO and I ask him to take care of the matter by going to assist these small companies in preparing these applications for the Ely Centre. This is the only way that municipalities can work. This is the real industrial policy that must now be pursued by the municipalities. Well, then, let's go to this final stage, that is, after the epidemic. We need to do quite a lot of defiling in society. We must acquire that knowledge, equipment and materials now, and the rescue service could be one good person to carry it out. We're going to put 2 million more in there. In fact, there may be a situation at the moment that we do not have in society any disinfection plans exist, there is no such uniform instruction as we can share that this is the way to do it, this is the way to act in public spaces, if there is found such a disease. It is clear — and has now been shown in the studies — that this remains on surfaces, on almost any surface, for up to ten days, even more than 19 days, including on that ship. The last point concerns the fact that the government programme should, in a way, be renewed because its base has disappeared at the same time. It would be strange if we did not touch the government programme at all. And of course a new budget would have to be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u22	Mr President! The whole world is in the hands of a corona virus pandemic, and the Committee on Finance also dealt exceptionally with a very important amending budget. I welcome the fact that the issues raised by the Assembly in particular in its protest were taken into account — quickly, quickly, with a great deal of direct support, especially for small businesses, in order to put an end to the wave of bankruptcy — that is to say, this appropriation was clearly raised in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u29	Mr President! In the midst of the corona crisis, entrepreneurs are in great need. The wave of bankruptcy in the 1990s, the loss of jobs and human suffering must be prevented. The entrepreneurs of the recession and the children of the recession know what the full cost of bankruptcy and mass unemployment has been. That time has come back to me strongly in recent days as I read a number of messages from entrepreneurs. I'll tell you a story. My father is an entrepreneur with a big y, what I've always admired about him. My father used to be a sports dealer. His company went bankrupt in 1990, as did over 30,000 other entrepreneurs during that recession. Why did this happen? Because of the recession, the sale collapsed, the expense remained. Good and close employees were not forced to resign. The debts fell on the back of the head. The company fell into a cash crisis because society did not support this difficult time. It's all gone. My father was the same age as I am now. How many 30-year-old family entrepreneurs are in the same situation today as Dad 30 years ago? He fought himself up. He's got a business today. He's temporarily closing his company's doors tomorrow. Fortunately, this time he is well prepared: he is in debt. We'll find out what we're trying to do. A lot of people don't make it. Many entrepreneurs cannot survive without support. Many entrepreneurs today feel a deep failure, even shame. It takes away all hope, and it paralyzes. What we have to say to the entrepreneurs today: This isn't your fault. It's not your risk-taking. These are exceptional circumstances in which you have no part to play, no lot to play. What we have to give to entrepreneurs today: we have to give money, cash, direct support. It's actually too late for a lot of people today. That money was needed yesterday. A government package of EUR 15 billion for entrepreneurs is an important whole, but it confuses those who do not know the reality of the entrepreneur. For that package, loan guarantees and deferrals amount to EUR 14.5 billion. They are important measures, but they do not help the entrepreneur whose cash register was already empty yesterday. How will delaying payments help the entrepreneur who has not accumulated buffers to date? How would these bulldozers be created in the autumn so that they could be paid in deferred payments? How does taking up additional debt help an entrepreneur whose debts are already on the pin because of investments? You still have to pay the wages, you still have to pay the rent. Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Finance for adding EUR 250 million to support small businesses through the Ely Centres. This is an important hand extension, but it does not help to lift everyone out of the abyss. That is why the Coalition Party proposes more funding through ely centres, for example, to be distributed to the smallest companies. In addition to the supplementary budget, the government has not taken into account the need for support for restaurants, restaurant entrepreneurs, to which the Committee on Economic Affairs also drew attention yesterday. There is an urgent need for a straightforward solution to the cash crisis for SMEs. That's where the cash register is. It should actually happen with one click of a button. How? The Coalition Party proposes that VAT payments in the early part of the year be refunded to entrepreneurs in such a way that some of them are permanently forgiven. In Sweden, VAT has already been returned to the register of companies. This must also be done in Finland if a wave of bankruptcy is to be avoided. There could also be limits to the return and forgiveness of alves, certainly according to those who really need it. Mr President! Jobs are created and die with companies. Savings SMEs are also in the interests of employees. Mr Kulmuni, I appreciate your presence here, and I ask you: when are you going to respond to the needs of entrepreneurs by returning the VAT at the beginning of the year?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u30	Mr President! For us here in Parliament, as well as for the Finnish people on live television, it is assured that protective equipment will be sufficient. How is it possible that this is said, even though there is now deep concern throughout Finland that there are no shelters? A person in a wheelchair at risk just contacted and asked how it is possible that his changing personal assistants do not have protective equipment. When asked, it was said that there are no shelters available anywhere. I fear that the needs of the home service have not been taken into account in all calculations and that the distribution to and from the municipal level is currently not working. Is it possible that it would now have happened that the needs of home care have not been taken into account when mapping the protective equipment situation? Minister Kiuru is no longer here, but I hope that these questions can be put to him. The interest rate situation has been alarming for several weeks and there has been a period of time for these protective equipment. That is why I ask: what exactly has been done about this matter during these weeks, and what is being done to ensure that these protective equipment actually exists, so that the virus does not get out of control in the health care sector and in the rest of the world? Then directly to this draft amending budget. In this respect, I would like to join in the thanks expressed in this Chamber for the good cooperation of the Parliamentary Committee on Finance in dealing with this draft amending budget in a very close, fast timetable for meetings and making significant, even five-fold, increases in business subsidies. At the same time, however, we all know that the amending budget that has been adopted in this Chamber does not yet fully respond to the needs of entrepreneurs and does not solve this problem. At the moment, companies are in severe distress, and these messages come at all times. The halting of a number of activities in society, i.e. the halting of everyday and normal life, threatens to bring down otherwise healthy businesses and destroy a lot of jobs in this country. As a society, we must do everything we can and help companies to overcome a situation that they themselves have not been able to influence and prepare for. Clients have lost, but wages, rents and mortgages run normally. For many small and medium-sized enterprises, loans are out of the question when it comes to the battle for survival. Small businesses need direct support, and the Coalition Party has proposed, among other things, the refund of VAT at the beginning of the year. In addition, in this proposal for an additional budget, we have put forward a proposal for additional funding for aid to small enterprises through the Ely Centres, because we believe that it is now the channel that needs to be used to help this SME field. As a question and perhaps as a point of view, when these subsidies and this funding, which the Parliament is now granting, are put into the field and channelled into companies, it would then be essential that those criteria be as bureaucratic as possible and that they also serve entrepreneurs, because many people are not used to sending such applications. There is also a fear that development funding — can be sought for development — is a prerequisite, although many people have a question of how to overcome this crisis, and I hope that particular attention will be paid to this. I also agree with Mr Heinonen's presentation here today, and I would like to draw further attention to the field of culture and art: That is where this draft amending budget will channel only EUR 0.9 million, which is all too little — everyone understands — in relation to this need and concern, given that, among other things, business Finland cannot provide support to such communities and associations as are often employed by these cultural workers. I would therefore like to see the government parties still consider joining us in our proposal, namely that we propose a six-fold increase in the amount of its cultural support. In the field of culture, the emergency is very severe and in practice all spring work has been cancelled. Similarly, I would like to ask the question of when a package of support for restaurants will come to Parliament and what kind of package is coming now, when the state's action, for legitimate and understandable reasons which protect people's health, has to be closed down. So what kind of support package is coming? This has also been required by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, i.e. support for restaurants, and so has the Committee on Economic Affairs. And as a final question: When will we get small entrepreneurs access to unemployment benefit, and how will we ensure that, when this is in force, those benefits and benefits can genuinely be granted because people are in need of income and there is already a message that the resources of Kela's benefit handlers will be met? How do you handle this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u31	Mr President! This global epidemic of coronavirus causes major negative impacts on the economy, but no one yet knows how large and how long. It was very important that the government acted as quickly as it did. After all, these figures in the government’s proposal are from there more than a week ago. It was also very good that the government parties and the Government had the capacity to rapidly increase these figures, how much will be allocated in the form of grants, i.e. these grants from Business Finland and the Ely Centres, so that now, what comes out of the additional budget, is EUR 1 billion, EUR 1 000 million, of which EUR 700 million comes to Business Finland and EUR 300 million to Ely Centres. Business Finland has advanced routines and a good machinery for processing these applications. Instead, we'll probably need more resources in the Ely Centers. There the situation is relatively problematic, and they should be the ones to give grants to these smaller companies, which are more quickly subject to payment disruptions normally than to larger ones. One might say to the assembly that one understands well the surprise that the government and the government parties in the Committee on Finance caused there, but of course the delegation as a talent party developed even higher figures, and then we can vote on them at the end of this evening, at the end of the evening. What is important, however, is that these figures, as defined by the Committee on Finance and the government parties, are made available quickly, and we all know that these amounts will not last very long. Neither does anyone know how much more is needed, but surely the government and Parliament will have the capacity to grant more of these grants. Indeed, direct support is much more important in this situation than those loans, which, of course, are also an important part of this package for a particular group of companies, which is not very small either. What is also important is that the funding for the supply of protective equipment and other equipment to the Security of Supply Centre increased during this parliamentary procedure, including in good agreement with the Government, from EUR 6 million to EUR 40 million. The security of supply centre is now a strong player in the international market, in a situation where that supply is certainly not even easy. As for the increased resource needs of the Social Insurance Institution and the local government finances, I understand that the government will return to them very soon, and they will also be taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u32	Mr President! Koronapandemia is, above all, a health crisis, and it is above all a question of the lives and health of Finns and how many people become ill with this disease and how many may be disabled or even die of this disease. Spirit and health are certainly the fundamental protection of our fatherland, our social order and our legal order. And what is the most important task of the state? Protect people's lives and health. But in this speech, when it comes to this very large, exceptionally large, amending budget, I will now focus on the economic effects of this corona pandemic, which are truly massive, as Mr Kiviranta, Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, said in his very expert speech. Koronapandemia is a massive economic disaster worldwide. It is probably justifiable to say that when mobility becomes more or less difficult, people do not move and it can also be very difficult to carry cargo, any kind of cargo, especially by flying and other means, it cannot mean anything other than a global recession. This is becoming a global economic recession, and I dare compare this financial crisis caused by the interest rate to the 1929 stock market collapse, which led to the famous consequences of the massive recession that left the United States of America in the world, also affected us in our own time of shortage. Something similar, unfortunately, is the result of this, and a good comparison with these economic effects of the interest rate is also the financial crisis in 2008, or the recession of the early 1990s, which is very well-known here and there in this debate. We understand what the economic and human effects of this pandemic are, as it were, side effects, negative side effects. The tracks of the recession, the tracks of the recession in the '90s, are still visible in our society, and it took almost ten years to deal with and rise from the financial crisis. However, in many ways, President, this economic crisis caused by the interest rate is even more serious than either of these, the crisis of the early 2008 or the 1990s, because it was in essence a banking crisis, a financial crisis, a financial crisis, and this is a diabolic crisis in the sense that it is a genuine end to the real economy, a practical business. If no one can leave their home and a person cannot use services and buy products, that is a terrible situation. In a certain way, pumping money and the activities of banks will not help much. And, Mr President, I am sorry to say that Finland's economic growth is likely to be extremely negative as a result of this crisis. It is estimated that if GDP falls by 5 per cent it will be a very positive result in these circumstances. We can even go up to 15%, and that is what we will have to prepare for. It is very important that, in the midst of this crisis, we try, in one way or another, to keep the economy rolling as much as we can to ensure that consumption does not completely stop. Unfortunately, it can be estimated that the impact on the Finnish economy can be bigger than in many other European countries, because we are really dependent on exports and the disruption of the world economy will hit our exports as soon as we produce industrial goods. I would like to see economic policy looking at how public procurement could be used to run the economy, and I am sure that in the future we will have to invest in infrastructure, roads, roads and railways, and I am sure that those digital issues should also be put in order. President! This is an increase in the budget for health care and public administration, but the biggest focus is on dealing with the financial crisis in the corona. This amending budget is aimed at direct support for businesses, and I think it is very important: through Business Finland 700 million especially for tourism, such as development of services, and then 300 million through Ely Centres, which is a huge deal, because it is precisely the support of the smallest companies and the support of sole entrepreneurs. I agree with what has been said here about the fact that the role of municipalities is quite central here, and it is a good thing if Minister Lintilä is now able to shepherd the municipalities to do this distribution of money or to participate in this process. My own town, Kauhava, made a decision that we have already put together such a crisis group and a single website, as it were. [The President knocks ] Mr President! This direct aid of EUR 1 billion is certainly not enough; new instruments for direct support are needed. I would like to point out that the guarantees for Finnvera have been raised to 12 billion. They are also aimed at helping healthy businesses beyond the acute cash crisis, even if it does not help smaller ones. President! I hope that we will be able to avoid and hopefully learn from the mistakes of the 1990s in the management of the economy as well as in the management of these human consequences. For example: I hope that the government will now speed up the reform of the debt restructuring laws and insolvency laws, so that the private creditor’s law and the corporate restructuring law
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u33	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Koskinen, has already presented the basis on which we are going to decide here today on this amending budget with direct support of around EUR 800 million for businesses. There is a strong rise, which has also been signalled by the government, and this support, which we have here, is important. It is essential to note that there is also EUR 200 million here, which, through the Ely Centres, is included in the companies of 1 to 5 people, i.e. those of the smallest companies, I would almost venture to say, who are in the most vulnerable position. We have 180,000 sole entrepreneurs in Finland, from whom too many have left bread, and in this respect these forms of support are very important. It has been said here in the speeches of the Assembly, in several speeches by the Assembly, that it is wonderful that the government listens to the Coalition Party and takes account of the comments made by the Assembly in previous protests that this support should be increased. I am not quite sure whether the government has listened particularly to the coalition — I assume there have been quite a number of experts who are familiar with this issue. If the Coalition Party wants to take these withdrawals in its own name, go ahead, we'll do it, we'll play in the same goal, and if the Coalition Party is happy that we're working together in this sense, we'll do this. It was the only thing that left me wondering why we are voting on the objection here today. We all know that there will be more amending budgets; the process is fully under way. What is the reason for this demonstration of vote, if the opposition has also been skillfully listened to here? Mr President! Mr Koskinen here made it clear that these solutions will increase public debt by around EUR 1 billion — EUR 1.1 billion. This is important to be quoted: now we are making decisions that will then be paid by future generations, public debt here will increase. But at the same time it is important to recognise that we are talking about a global crisis and we are talking about a European crisis that affects all European countries. Everyone here is now in a situation of deficit, and this crisis is being financed by debt money. It's a matter of human life. The economy is, after all, an instrument for well-being, a safe life and a life in itself, not on the contrary. In this respect, we now have to invest. As regards the net debt ratio, Finland is one of the least indebted countries in the world, when public finances also include these pension assets that we still have — although in this situation their value has also fallen, but in any case we are very much prepared for the future. And when compared with the number of countries of the Union, we have the lowest budget deficits and public debt among the countries of the Union. That, in this respect, we can still afford to be in debt in this crisis rather than in many other countries. Mr President! Here Mr Heinonen's own speech pointed to the need for more government money for these small businesses, but above all for rents to get out of hand: companies do not work, but they still have real estate, rental apartments available, and now there is pressure for the state to participate in this payment of rent. I am sure there are these pressures here, but there is a good example of Spain, where, on a large scale — I know there is a situation in the hairdressing industry where hairdressers are kaput in this situation, there are no customers — that has been done in such a way that the landlords have met. They're not going to liquidate everything. It's been agreed that they'll be halved. Rents are half of what the rent level is normally, so both the landlord and the lessor share in this crisis together. Yes, even in Finland, if we were to go to rent subsidies, we would have to take into account the fact that landlords would also meet in this regard, and not that the State is the only one to sign off on this crisis. Mr Kurvinen pointed out that this corona crisis is different in nature from the recession of the 2008 or the early 1990s and the then banking crisis — here are more vulnerable elements. However, it is only its comfort to this representative, Mr Kurvise, that, when this is the primary problem, when domestic demand is out of hand and that potential exists there, when we get out of this crisis, there is that potential demand. In these past crises, when it was a crisis of the global system, it was a bit like beyond our reach. This is not, and in that respect there is a more comforting prospect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u34	Mr President! The Corona virus has revolutionized our lives in a few weeks. Compared to other European countries, Finland has already taken tough restrictive measures in the front. At present, uncertainty about the future is great. Many are concerned about their own health and that of their loved ones. At the same time, there are also serious concerns about livelihoods when the economy is diving and jobs are threatened. It is very important that, in this difficult situation, the government has been able to agree quickly on such a large package of economic support. A total of EUR 15 billion will safeguard jobs and people's livelihoods and will primarily facilitate the situation in the services sector and other companies affected by the acute crisis. Mr President! The Committee on Finance has dealt with this aid package as part of the amending budget. According to a report received by the committee, the situation has changed rapidly over the last few days, and that is why our committee is reacting quickly and is now proposing to increase resources both for business support and for the procurement of the Security of Supply Centre. For example, more than 6000 companies have already applied for funding through Business Finland in the past week, while usually the same number of applications have been received throughout the year. Funding is being allocated to small and medium-sized enterprises, and the committee is now proposing that the granting of grants be increased to both Ely Centres and Business Finland. At the same time, our committee also draws attention to the responsible behaviour of businesses and considers it important that state aid be conditional so that companies receiving public aid do not, for example, at the same time distribute dividends to their owners. It cannot be that state aid for crises goes directly into the owner's pockets, but that this aid, under exceptional circumstances, prevents a company from going bankrupt and maintaining jobs. Mr President! This amending budget package is a good start. The government has already announced that new amending budgets are on the way. This is important because many people are already looking for more support. Municipalities have a better buffer than businesses, but they too will soon need concrete support decisions. Our society is currently being held up by municipalities and their employees, and sufficient resources must be made available to them to provide life-saving services. At the same time, municipalities must now put an end to the hasty reduction and lay-off of staff. There is no point in reducing municipalities' staff at a time when many citizens need special support and assistance now and certainly beyond this period of derogation. Mr President! The sporting and cultural sectors are also in a serious crisis due to the situation caused by the corona virus. Every single spring show, show and event is now cancelled. A large proportion of those employed in the cultural sector are freelancers, who are now being brought into the unemployment benefit with the government's good support package. In addition to this, however, the government must also bring forward proposals in the next amending budget on how to support operators in the sector beyond this crisis. Many small entrepreneurs have also quickly lost their customers or had to close their doors. However, fixed costs run, and farm rents are the most significant of these. For these smallest companies, solutions are now urgently needed to prevent a wave of bankruptcy, and in these exceptional circumstances, legislation should be considered, for example, to temporarily limit rentals in commercial dwellings. Mr President! It is already clear that the fight against the corona will involve negotiations, lay-offs and, unfortunately, bankruptcies. Unemployment funds will become congested and processing times will be prolonged. It is very important for the government to ensure that unemployment benefits are paid as quickly as possible. In the next supplementary budget, additional resources should also be allocated to the Social Insurance Institution so that no one's bills are paid by late decisions on benefits. The Left Alliance believes that it is important that economic support measures are directed broadly towards those most in need, whether they are in the bread line, temporary workers, freelancers, workers at risk of layoffs or small entrepreneurs. This crisis, if anything, has shown how important welfare state structures are. We'll continue to take good care of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u35	Mr President! The government has tabled a very necessary amending budget. In the short term, in particular, all investments in the administrative sector of our Ministry of Social Affairs and Health are vital. It is very good that testing is being increased and there is also additional funding for materials. In addition to this, we will certainly continue to assess the level that it will be sufficient for as the epidemic progresses. In fact, we have two crises at hand, as Nobel Prize winner Paul Romer describes the situation: we have an economic crisis and we have a health crisis. There are quite a lot of questions as to whether we can achieve a good result by means of separate solutions to these crises. Although this difficult economic impact arises precisely from the fact that social contact is limited and the pace of infection can be slowed down, at the same time it causes mass unemployment. On the other hand, according to several experts, this so-called slowing-down tactic takes too long for our economy to withstand it, and at the same time the capacity of health care is very hard in any case and may still be exceeded in these countries, which have relatively high levels of intensive care. Therefore, the crucial question is surely how to get out of this crisis, how long it will take. It depends on this duration whether these support measures can be sustainable, whether any state can have enough funding to deal with this kind of crisis, perhaps whether it is Norway or similar examples. Of course, the EU has also turned the wheels, and everything is being done. At the same time, however, the question arises as to what is the most humane solution to the crisis in terms of economic and health terms. But now, for example, the World Health Organization (WHO) is thanking models such as South Korea and Singapore for trying to track the supply chains. This may also be the best model in the economy. It really requires an increase in the testing capacity, and that is why I wonder what kind of money it would actually be worth putting in to increase the testing capacity, because these alternative costs and the situations we are going through are also very expensive. Or, in fact, we could change that pattern in the sense that we really should — if we assume that such an increase in testing capacity will help us out of this distress or at least with this distress to survive better until, according to estimates, the vaccine or drug is developed within a year or a year and a half — put a very large amount of money into testing. Now there are the estimates that we are running out of staff before these testing equipment or tests, and then we should consider whether it is possible to automate this testing system. If money makes it clear, it would be possible, in health science and technology, to resolve this issue in the short term or even in the medium term. In any case, it seems that countries with the capacity to test and trace these transmission chains will be hit by a smaller economic blow. The same reflections are taking place in every European country, Germany too, as to whether people's movements, movements and infectious diseases can be identified once this situation has been contained, just as we have now done well in Finland, we are trying to control the progression of the disease. But when we are in a situation where it is controlled, this situation will in any case take months, when it is indeed known that these economic effects may be unsustainable and human effects, as well as the health effects, because if we accept that people are gradually getting sick, it also means, unfortunately, that more and more middle-aged and young people are seriously affected — this has been constantly updated. That is why the big question for the economy is whether we can get, not only slow down, but stop the progression of this disease, as we have now managed to do in some countries, because economically, too, this could be the best equation. I have faith in Finland’s ability to do many things. It certainly requires a wide range of borders, requires research, technology, innovation and new production chains, a rapid change in different production chains, but in any case, Finland, if any country, will have at least the conditions for this type of production.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u36	Mr President! The Government's proposal for an amending budget for 2020 was rapidly brought to the attention of Parliament and the report of the Committee on Finance was also rapidly finalised. While I thank you for your promptness, I would like to stress that in such an exceptional situation close cooperation between the government and the opposition is also emphasised. Now the bar vibrates, unfortunately, when you listen to what Mr Screamunen has to say. I'd like to tell the congressman that his hand is up as a sign of error, and I will say so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u41	Mr President! Our welfare society is now being hit by the Korona epidemic in a shocking way. This amending budget shows how quickly things are changing as the epidemic progresses. The government's proposal in the Committee on Budgets less than a week ago has been more than doubled, and even this 1.1 billion only responds to acute pain spots. As the report states, more money will soon be needed, at least to make it possible for the municipalities that are struggling with serious economic difficulties to make decisions about Kela’s benefits, and also for the cultural players who have been deprived of the conditions for action by the interest rate. The Government will continue to respond quickly to the necessary budgetary needs, and I think it is important that this work be done together with the opposition by the whole Parliament. [Janne Sankelo’s interlude] Mr President! It is important that rapid action is now taken to safeguard people's health, safety and livelihood. Additional efforts in health care come to an acute need. There has been much discussion here about the adequacy of protective equipment. It must be secured, as many people have indeed said here. Indeed, we cannot afford to risk the safety of health care staff. It is also important that: Finland participates actively in extensive research, including monitoring the effectiveness of measures to slow the spread of the virus, examining the emergence of immunity and developing rapid diagnostic methods. There has been a lot of talk here about the importance of testing. Mr Holopainen spoke well. It is important to increase the testing capacity in order to limit the supply chain of infectious diseases. It is also important that we can test to identify people who have been immune to the disease after it has been sick and can return to working life. Mr President! In parallel with the resolution of the acute crisis, it is important that we also look further to the future and build a path out of these strict restrictions towards a sustainable economic recovery. Last night, Sitra launched a discussion paper entitled “Sustainable recovery measures for a high rate of shock”. It sets out sustainable recovery measures that could support the Finnish economy in ways that would be compatible or, at least, not incompatible with the resolution of the ecological sustainability crisis. The time for these measures is when the immediate crisis begins to subside and restrictions begin to be lifted. However, discussions and preparations should be initiated in order to enable action to be taken in a timely manner. But it is indeed important now to support businesses and jobs in this acute crisis in order to help people beyond the economic disaster. It is therefore important that this amending budget allocates a great deal of money to support companies. It is also important that these grants should be allocated soon so that the plight of entrepreneurs does not become overwhelming.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u42	Mr President! We are solving a terrible problem: we are solving both the health threat of the corona and the enormous financial difficulties faced by businesses and businesses. That is the answer to this uniquely large increase in the budget. Finland and the world will not be the same after this crisis. I would like to thank the Government and the Minister for Finance, Mr Kulmun, for their prompt efforts to resolve this crisis. Thank you to the committee for the courage to act in a rapidly changing situation. The amending budget sends a strong message to the business field and creates hope for firms in distress. Direct support for businesses will rise to one billion. This rescue package will help both sole entrepreneurs and larger companies so that we can save as many of them as possible and jobs across the crisis. Business Finland's support for companies has been working fast. The large number of applications indicates faith in the future. That is why there is a clear need for such a significant increase in the amount of money earmarked for this purpose. The mandates will be increased to EUR 700 million. The powers to grant aid to Ely centres will be increased by EUR 300 million. Korona has raised the security of supply in our country and the highest possible self-sufficiency in food to its new value.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u45	Mr President! The amending budget and the work of the Committee on Finance on this report have been very necessary to take action in this very exceptional situation. We know that the corona virus has caused both a global and a Europe-wide economic crisis, and our entrepreneurs, our employers, are completely innocent of the situation that has also taken place in Finland, and that is why we need firm action. We also know that layoffs continue to spread. Many entrepreneurs are currently wondering how they will survive tomorrow and next week. The cash-flow crisis is very common, especially for smaller entrepreneurs, and the turnover of many companies has collapsed, dropped, in many respects even to zero, especially in the service sector. Mr. Speaker! The government has announced these measures in the past, we have talked about this package of EUR 15 billion, Finnvera's powers, which are in themselves quite the right direction, but, as we have discussed in this Chamber before, they are mainly borrowing-type measures. We also know that we have a lot of businesses, entrepreneurs, for whom, firstly, this additional debt is not possible or where there is no genuine will for it, and I understand that too, because, when it comes to mainly external shocks, it is quite unreasonable that, in order to save life's work, there should then be mainly loan support. A strong increase in Business Finland's grants and the grant allocation to Ely Centres is a good start; it is a good start to say thank you for that, although Business Finland's support is mainly directed at larger companies, as it is aimed only at companies with limited liability companies — but, in particular, the use of this funding for Ely Centres is now also high expectations. We also know that the government has had more than a few weeks to act on this and, as far as I am concerned, we are waiting for it now, because we can get it moving. And, in fact, I would like to ask Mr Kulmun now if you would promise that this call for funds will be made available without delay, preferably tomorrow, because there will be companies waiting frantically for it, because this assistance will then also be mobilised. Mr. Speaker! I would also like to ask Minister Kulmun a few questions. Now that much has been said about these support measures, it is also true that this acute situation is already facing many entrepreneurs at the moment and these measures, which are linked to grants from ely centres, are probably too late for many entrepreneurs. Consequently, there has also been much discussion in this Chamber about the possibility of coming against businesses, including through fiscal measures to resolve the acute cash crisis, particularly with regard to VAT. The refund of these alves paid this year on application could, in particular, help save many smaller companies in this acute cash crisis. What, Minister Kulmun, do you think of this? We both know that the Tax Administration has done quite a lot of work in recent years to automate these different application processes. A great deal of good digital systems are already being used there. From my own common sense, I might think that the Tax Administration could also go to such a job, or, referring to what was heard earlier today, or whether it was earlier this week, it could be a more difficult task, but it would be nice to hear from you how you feel about this. Secondly, Mr President, the Minister has also pointed out this reduction in the interest rate on past taxes in the payment scheme to 4%. Well, in this situation, of course, when it comes to the acute crisis, it is good to ask out loud in this Chamber too, which is why interest must be charged at all, which is why these entrepreneurs, who are in real difficulty, are not allowed to raise these issues, Mr President, not at interest. It would also be good to hear the Minister's position on this. This government proposal is coming to this house rather soon, I believe, so would it not be time for this proposal to be corrected in this regard as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u46	Mr President! It is very good that we now have a government amending budget for 2020, and many of these will probably be seen. We are rarely used to the fact that the amounts of the amending budgets are in this category and yet we all know already that this will not be enough to resolve this crisis. We used to talk about the adequacy of the shields and how they were instructed to use the shields. This is where Minister Kiuru assured us that the guidelines are now in order, and I want to believe that this is the case. However, the availability of shelters remains a challenge. I know from my own home town in Vantaa that it has been challenging to get home services, for example, to get shelters quickly enough, so it has not been a matter of not wanting to put them there. And I just read in the news that one of the home service workers in Sipoo is already infected with the corona virus. We know that these people are working with people who, if they do, have a very low chance of surviving the disease, and then it is no longer a lack of care, but that it is really easy for old people and people with underlying diseases to lead to a very serious situation and even death. It would therefore be very important for people who are dealing with risk groups to be extremely well protected, since the corona virus is already contagious before any symptoms have been observed. Let us hope now that these additional resources will also help us to provide shelter for all those who work for home services and for all the places where they are needed. There's been a lot of talk here about companies. My own concern about companies is also very great. A lot of people remember the recession in the '90s, and even so, entrepreneurs have had the courage to try. I follow the plight of the entrepreneur very closely at home when the income has virtually fallen to zero and the expenses are still running. The main problem at the moment is rents, and, understandably, the Government may not have a direct opportunity to address them. What surprises many tenants, however, is that those who receive support from others, such as the European Central Bank, continue to fully collect rents from their tenants on the basis of contracts. I do not think that this is reasonable. It would be absolutely desirable for all those landlords who now have the potential to influence the survival of their own tenants to do so, because otherwise there may be a situation where there are no tenants. After all, under normal circumstances, tenants always come to the farm if someone leaves, but in this situation, unfortunately, it is not a question of tenants coming to the farm. I therefore believe that there would be a common will among the landlords — and there should be — to help the tenants. This also applies to municipalities and cities. Many municipalities and cities have now put off their rents. I would hope that even more municipalities and cities could also provide clear reductions in charges and even exemptions from payments now when in practice business is impossible. The situation of many entrepreneurs is also challenged by the fact that, on the basis of contracts, they should keep doors open, for example in shopping centres, but in practice there are no customers. In this case, landlords often argue that rents should normally be collected. In this respect too, it would be desirable for the government to be able to determine whether shopping centres, for example, are still to be kept open, or whether we could move on to shopping centres at a time where only essential services such as grocery stores and pharmacies would be open. Mr President! Some of the cultural players are now being taken into account in this additional budget. Of course, the wish would have been that even more could have been taken into account. Some of the cultural players benefit from subsidies for entrepreneurs, but many are still missing. In addition to culture, I am very concerned about exercise and sport. Sports clubs as well as many social and health organisations are doing important work for human health now and even after this crisis. The social protection of athletes is also extremely weak. Many people are now left completely empty when they are not covered by normal social security. I hope that when the government brings more proposals into this Chamber, we will also receive proposals to improve the social security of athletes. Finally, I would like to ask Minister Kulmun: we have now received government proposals to speed up the timetables for lay-offs, but when will we get a proposal that will enable entrepreneurs to benefit from unemployment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u47	Mr President! The amending budget and the budget reading by the Committee on Budgets show a good spirit for Parliament in this exceptional situation. There will certainly be more of these additions this year. These rents have been mentioned in a few speeches, including by Mr Multala in the previous speech, and this is precisely the case. I encourage public actors, such as municipalities, to meet entrepreneurs. It is certainly better for the municipality, even though it hurts, to halve the rent than to stick strictly to the agreements, even though our thinking is that the pacta sunt servanda, the contracts must be kept. But if that attempt to shut down and there is no new one, everyone will lose. Setting up that new business and leaving zero is more inefficient than going beyond this valley of death with flexibility. There was money added to the police and it was added to the Committee on Finance. I suspect that we will have to return to this. Resources have been tight before this, and now the increased tasks are driving the police even harder, as well as many other actors in society. We've been talking about the briefing. For us representatives, probably everyone, there are daily messages — probably for all hundreds of messages — from people who are afraid, anxious, uncertain about how to act, where to find information and so away. Few people can think and think that information can be sought on the Ministry’s website, for example. They may not be the first pages the citizen or entrepreneur goes to. I've been trying to direct them to these pages and I've been trying to get some straight answers, as I'm sure we all have. We are now in this amending budget also providing money for communication, 3 million for citizens' letters and 600,000 for communication campaigns — good ideas, and they can certainly be there, they are needed — but it is worth considering almost direct real-time or, at least, daily communication with a lion logo, as declarations from the Ministry to citizens and entrepreneurs. When it comes in uniform, with the same content throughout Finland, the risk of misunderstanding is reduced. Article 126 of the Emergency Act also allows or even obliges the media to publish these without delay as such quickly and with the same content. So if you feel bad about paying, you can be obliged to do it without money. There has been talk of breathing machines and masks and other items: are there enough of them, what is the situation, where more can be obtained quickly. You might want to look a little further in this situation, too. We have a medical helicopter operation that has been rated as one of the best in the world, and from the beginning of 2022 it should be reorganized. The shares of FinnHEMS have been transferred to the State, and these helicopters should be acquired on their own balance sheet. Currently, there are subcontractors, companies that run it. Their agreements will be concluded by the end of 2021. These companies are uncertain about how to move forward. Minister Kiuru has promised clarifications early in the year on how this will continue. If there is no information, these companies will start to drive down the business, and the creation of new activities from scratch, even in a state-owned company, is not an easy exercise. Helicopters are not available on the world market to be taken directly from the shelf. It takes time to hire staff, licenses, to take account of all safety regulations. In this case, I would like to encourage these agreements to be extended for a year now, so that the situation can be resolved and calmed down. Let's do it like time out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u48	Mr President! In the fight against corruption, we need to pay particular attention to the infrastructure and factors of society that really stand up to it. It is clear that health care is constantly and increasingly on fire in this situation, but we must also remember the police, the border guards, the rescuers and other authorities. I myself have been a cop for over 20 years, and during that time and before that, the police have always struggled with inadequate budgets and resources. Year after year, we have had to struggle with additional budgets for additional budgets. It was as if police action had always been some kind of necessary evil that had to be dealt with in some sort of miraculous way. Many times it has been said that hopefully nothing worse will happen with these resources. Now the police’s chronic diet is retaliating, and it shows its ruthless endurance. The isolation of Uusimaa will consume a huge amount of resources, and where will it be found if, in Finland, 100,000 police missions are not carried out in normal times when there is no one to send in? Of course, it is now known that the Defence Forces will provide official assistance in this situation when the Uusimaa is closed down, but it still eats up a considerable amount of police resources, since the police are the competent authority in that operation. Now, if ever, I have to say that hopefully nothing worse will happen again. Even in normal times, the police's shifts continue to run on minimum manning. If one of them drops out of that shift, we'll have to patch it up with overtime. What happens now that one of them gets sick on the corona? The police, if anyone is exposed to a constant high risk of infection in field assignments: frequent visits to people’s homes, frequent contact with people, and sometimes very close to them. Is the police adequately protected in this situation? At the moment, there are, for example, two masks per police car, which should be taken care of. Cars carry huge numbers of people, cars need to be disinfected constantly. Do you have enough time for this? Will it be done efficiently and carefully enough? I now call very strongly for all possible measures to be taken to ensure that the police are able to function before it is again too late. Unfortunately, we have been late on many crucial issues in this struggle. Return flights and how they have been handled can now be considered a good example. We must not be late on this matter. Adequate funding must be provided to ensure that the police are able to function. The Coalition Party has presented twice the amount proposed by the Government for the amending budget. Our proposal is a minimum requirement in this situation, especially as Uusimaa is isolated from the rest of the country. There must be sufficient protective equipment, and I propose that they be imposed on the police. At this point, I would also like to ask the government how to ensure that the authorities — border control, emergency care, rescue and so on — are able to operate and to cope. It must be understood that the situation is only just beginning, and even though the threat of the corona has finally disappeared one day, its tracks remain for years to be cleaned up by the authorities. There will be a huge amount of work to be done in this sector, we already know that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u49	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the government for showing by means of this amending budget that this situation is being taken very seriously, and also the Committee on Budgets for drawing up this report. This amending budget is extremely important to support entrepreneurs, but at the same time it is very important to ensure public health and also to ensure security of supply in our country. The fight against the corona is an entity in which all these factors must be assessed. In addition to this kind of direct or indirect financial support, it is now important — and I will tighten up the government — to give our entrepreneurs flexibility now. They miss them, and they also miss thinking outside the box. In the tourism and restaurant sectors, for example, these alcohol-free licences have been discussed. If only less than 10% of entrepreneurs have that permit at the moment, I really hope that it will automatically come to everyone who wants to continue their business in this difficult situation. Similarly, it would be good to assess whether that exit limit can be temporarily raised in this crisis, and when I have talked to the operators in the sector, there is a strong experience that this kind of activity would save many, many companies in a difficult situation, without having to pour that state money in indefinitely and, of course, we have no chance of doing so either. Mr President! Above all, the management of this crisis requires unity and, of course, I noted during that Question Time that this unity is quite fragile even now in this Chamber. I hope we can confirm that. I would also like the opposition not to call on the government to take measures that are simply not possible within the framework of our constitution or our preparedness legislation. It would be important for us to be honest in this Chamber in the midst of this crisis. There has also been a lot of criticism of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, of the health authorities and also of the government for the initial management of the crisis, and it is quite reasonable that, once this acute crisis has been resolved, lessons will be carefully recovered and an analysis will also be made of how, for example, THL has acted in this crisis. It has also become clear to me — and I trust — that our health care system, our authorities, are prepared for a wide range of situations. But preparation is not always the same as anticipation, and perhaps it would then be justified to consider how we could better anticipate such situations. For example, now that there are many different legislative proposals, they have to be prepared in a hurry, and it would certainly be justified for such presentations to be found in future, prepared and pre-checked there in ministerial desk drawers. Representative S.H.I.E.L.D. brought up the resources of the police, and I share this concern with Mr. S.H.I.E.L.D. completely, just as I share my concern about the ability of our healthcare staff and their protective equipment, just as I share my concern about the equipment of the Border Guard and our bordermen. Much more work has been done now that internal borders have also been closed. Nevertheless, we must be able to look at this situation as a whole and not just politicise on the issue of our own interest groups. We must look at this from the perspective of the Finnish State and move on from it. I would have asked Minister Kulmun about these direct and indirect subsidies for companies and these flexibility in possible legislation in the future. How do you react to this, and is the government planning such measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u50	Mr President! As has been said on many occasions, we are facing a very serious issue. In this context, we must thank the government for its swift action in the amending budget and also for the fact that, after hearing the Ministers in the Committee on Budgets, we were able to add almost 700 million to it. So the total pool is 1.1 billion, which means that the time for big money is indeed at stake. Many speeches have highlighted the health of the people, the health of the citizens, and that is certainly the most important thing in this context. And then, of course, the other is how to secure a livelihood for workers and businesses if they are falling when the cash flow is dwindling. However, if production is something that could be produced in this situation too, then of course we must ensure that the companies remain standing. Then a lot of messages came from small and single entrepreneurs. It's a very awkward situation. However, the rents are paid all the time, and it seems that it is not possible to reach a common agreement on rentals, at least with international companies. And that's the energy bill, too. Could the energy companies somehow meet at this stage and then take back its lost energy bill? The order books are empty for entrepreneurs, and there is indeed no income, but there are now medicines in this budget, to some extent. According to a report received by the committee, a de minimis financial instrument is being prepared for the use of ely centres. This de minimis ceiling is 200,000, and it will probably now be the subject of a debate as to whether this will then have to be used in the EU if it is to be lifted up quite vigorously. But this is the kind of thing we're supposed to do. ‘Itshould have been intended for SMEs for whom the coronavirus has caused In particular, it would ensure the liquidity of companies and access to finance for companies. If the conditions for profitable activities exist, funding could be available for a situation analysis or development measures. It is intended that the search and funding can be launched as soon as possible and that the amendment to the Regulation will allow for greater advances and higher aid rates." This is very important for companies if this is really possible. Mainly in this amending budget funding is allocated to the section of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and to the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In particular, this security of supply situation must now be highlighted, that we have equipment and capacity for control of communicable diseases and that there must also be medicines for all needs. In other words, without further ado, I would also like to thank the opposition for this laudable reading. An amending budget was immediately mobilised and the livelihood of citizens and businesses improved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u51	Mr President! Thank you to the previous speaker, Mr Pierais: you spoke on behalf of the entrepreneurs. Thank you also to Minister Kulmun: you have spoken excellently on behalf of the entrepreneurs that you understand the plight of the entrepreneurs. I myself am from a family of entrepreneurs, and there are a lot of entrepreneurs around me, and I am very concerned about how companies are going to stand up. I'll get back to that. But first of all, I would like to return to what has been discussed here, what should be done now. Yes, I personally am in favour of a lot of tests being carried out, especially this throat test and then the antibody test, because we need the diagnosis of the disease, we need how much this disease has spread and how it moves. Then we also need these tests for antibodies because we see how many people have had this, and then we have these two different tests for antibodies to see who is in the acute phase and who has had it in the past. And with it we can also gain good knowledge in the development of vaccines. That is why I would say that there is absolutely no need to reduce testing. The second thing that has been mentioned here is precisely to restrict and control and to mitigate and suppress. Now these planes coming to the airports and those that are being brought to Finland... It is good that they are now being brought back to Finland, their homeland and their home, they are really looking forward to it, but it does have its own risk, then, how to get them to really go home to quarantine under protected conditions, and that will be quite a challenge for us. Then we have been talking about staff protective equipment this evening — very important things. We really have to have a lot of them. After the swine flu, there has been quite a lot of storage, and now there is a warehouse in every region — at least in our region — and even though there is an old date, they have all been tested and seen that they are OK, so that they can still be used, and at least we are about to introduce them if necessary. Well, then, it's business for the entrepreneurs. It is great that this amending budget is helping entrepreneurs, but unfortunately it is inadequate for SMEs and self-employed entrepreneurs, the smallest ones. There is certainly something that can be achieved through Business Finland, but it does not help everyone, and that is why, for example, the Coalition Party has proposed even more funding for the Ely Centres than is currently being proposed. I am sure that 30 entrepreneurs have been calling me in the course of this day, precisely these small businesses, who say that this is not enough and that we need more help for SMEs and self-employed people. I was very sorry, though, that the representatives of Kiviranta and Kurvinen were laughing here at the draft of the Convention. At the same time, they laughed at the entrepreneurs, and that is what I find really, you can say, shocking. Then one more thing is for the municipalities. Municipalities will certainly be very tight, and it is linked to the cost of health care, but it is also linked to the fact that we will have the number of entrepreneurs and jobs on the card and the reduction. Of course, we will give all the support we can from the opposition to the government. And if we bring different options, we shouldn't laugh at them or mock them. We will try our best, together with you, to think about keeping Finland on its feet. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u52	Mr President! I would also like, for my part, to thank the government for its promptness, for bringing this draft amending budget into this difficult situation at such a rapid pace, and then, of course, the Committee on Budgets, which reacted to this situation and brought vital additions to this amending budget. It is very important that the Committee on Finance has just provided additional funding for business support and also additional funds for the procurement of the Emergency Supply Agency. In addition to the fact that additional appropriations have now been made available to Business Finland and the Ely Centres, I think it is very important, especially for these small companies, which have now been mentioned a great deal in this Chamber, that information is good enough so that each of the small companies knows where and how this assistance can be applied for. It is very important in this as a whole, as Mr Kiuru, among others, highlighted the importance of this information. Then there's the other thing: This security of supply is an important issue, and there has now been quite a lot of discussion about this, especially with regard to these protective equipment. It is very important now that the Emergency Supply Agency has left this equipment in the medical districts and hospitals, because it has actually been that way... I myself have received a lot of messages from that field and pictures from that field that now is the last face shield running at the moment. There is no way that we can end up running out of these things. I understand that, especially in the initial stages of testing, perhaps a little too heavy protection has been used, and that is why it is a little surprising how these hospitals have run out of their own equipment so early. That is why it is important that hospitals should be informed in future about what is the right way to protect themselves and use this protective equipment. In addition, it would be good — and I do not know if every hospital district has already been introduced — to have this drive-in test developed in that private sector, among other things. I know that at least the central hospital in Vaasa has been using this drive-in test since the beginning, because driving-in testing does not require the use of protective equipment as strong as this traditional testing, which led to traffic. Finally, I would like to thank the whole of our government for having worked really hard, for working round the clock, and for hoping that everyone will be able to cope with this very important work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u53	Mr President! Health care is now a priority for all, and we are trying to deal with it as well as possible, but at the same time, in the midst of uncertainty, entrepreneurs are also in a particularly difficult position, as has also been mentioned here. In particular, small entrepreneurs, self-employed persons and professionals are really between wood and bark. These are companies, but also workers who fear for their jobs. We need these companies both during the crisis and especially after the crisis. Many families have also been challenged by the crisis. Especially in families with children, a challenging time is now taking place when the majority of children are in remote education. It is particularly challenging in many families of special children. A family can have a child with special needs or disability, and for many parents, both work and support for local education and special children is a challenging equation. After all, special children are entitled to contact education, but when a special child is also at risk of infection, many parents want to keep the child at home. In many families with special children, income falls when the child cannot be taken to day care or school for health reasons and the parents must take unpaid leave and Kela does not give special care allowance. These children are often also children whose parents are a family carer, but the support for informal care is not increased by the municipalities. I would like to ask: could it be possible to temporarily consider an increase in the allowance for informal care at national level for special children, which would result in a slight improvement in the income of these families? With regard to entrepreneurs, we would also have a lot of service needs at the moment. We have families with children, many of whom are now without services. They don't go to school, and we don't know what's going on with families with children. There would be a need for support for many families. Support would also be needed for older people, a variety of shopping services and other home care services. This would be an excellent point for the increasing use of service vouchers. It is now a sensible way of producing jobs for businesses and securing basic services in exceptional circumstances. Legislation already exists in municipalities, but municipalities should now be instructed to make better use of it. Service vouchers would make it easier for municipalities to keep their own activities and important basic services operational during the crisis. I would like to make a point here about Kela's operating expenses. Now that many people have to rely on Kela’s benefits, Kela’s work is growing a lot. Their workload has soared, which is why Kela's sufficient resources must also be taken care of. I would also like to point out here what Pauli Kiuru said earlier, that it would also be important to make a decision on state helicopter procurement. Helicopters are needed both in this corona crisis and in other crisis situations in the future, and they are also required to maintain the adequate quality of our emergency care and rescue throughout Finland. With the help of rescue helicopter operations, we are able to take rapid help, regardless of whether a person is having a seizure in Lapland, for example. At the same time, this is an issue of equality, and especially in such crisis situations, this deficiency is also noted if it exists. And even now, in the context of the corona crisis, Lapland, which is in the dark with regard to services, the need for a rescue helicopter is obvious: although, of course, not many people can be treated at a time, the consultation service that can be provided to the whole region through its knowledge,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u54	Mr President! First of all, I support the objection tabled by the Finnish People in the Committee on Finance. In the protest, we will take a position on, among other things, the operational expenditure of the police, we will put forward a little more resources there as well as the Border Guard. We are very concerned, as are all the representatives here, about Finnish companies and the conditions under which entrepreneurs operate, both now and in the future, and also about workers, and we are also targeting this in our protest to increase our resources, as well as to promote health and functional capacity, including these rates of interest rate and antibody tests. Mr President! We're going through a major crisis. This crisis reminds me of the recession in the '90s. I myself am the daughter of the assisting family, as, Minister Kulmuni, you said you were. My father and mother have both been entrepreneurs, and I remember the pain that it was then, and now those scars are open and people are wondering what will happen. You said that this corona crisis will be an even greater crisis for entrepreneurs than the recession of the 1990s, and now we must do everything to prevent this from happening and to support entrepreneurs, as well as workers, so that even if jobs are now out of hand, then the future will be brighter. Yesterday I submitted a written question to the Ministry on how the TE Offices are now receiving customers. There are over 100,000 laid-off people there, and there will certainly be huge congestion, and, for example, by dismantling red tape and speeding up these chains of activity, one could respond to the fact that more and more people will be able to get rapid applications and help there. Mr President! There has been talk here about the situation of people returning to Finland, the arrival of passengers and flights and the lack of understanding of quarantine. The problem with informative guidance is that it does not necessarily get there. And now it is really important that we stick to the fact that when passengers come, they are clearly instructed to move and leave the airport in such a way that there is, for example, a recipient, someone who will apply. Now, of course, it is understandable that many will surely leave the country on public transport from their journeys to their homes. Can this be done, or should it be that someone comes to pick you up at the airport? And that quarantine — it has to get to the people that this is what has to be done: when it comes from the journey, it is when it comes to quarantine. And it was confusing to hear yesterday — of course it is always good to admit that a mistake has been made — from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health Tuija Kumpulainen, saying that there has been no information, the information has been broken. It seems quite inconceivable that information is broken, it is not known how to act, and then there will be huge, unimaginable damage. Mr President! The relaxation of the eligibility criteria for nurses will sooner or later be met during this corona crisis. We're running out of nurses. When nurses get sick, then who goes to care for elderly care units, for example? The question is no longer whether a nurse has been vaccinated with a flu shot, what has been required of the nurses at the moment, but everyone is fit to help there. And this is certainly the way to do it, so we need a variety of hands to help with the care of the elderly and certainly a lot of other activities — how are these resources now being acquired and obtained? It is very important that testing is increased. If it is the two-and-a-half thousand tests per day that Finland can take, then it is absolutely necessary for the future to have the data on how much we get sick, and also data on how many people get better and better. Now we are hearing about the number of these viral infections and the number of people in hospital and intensive care, but also the way the disease is cured is very important. Mr President! Big crisis, a lot of action, tightening up. I would like to thank the government for having gone and done so. It is very important and I welcome the fact that the restaurants are closed and people will stay out of it this weekend, as well as the fact that Uusimaa is being restricted. It is very important that if the virus spreads — as it does — we can't help it — then it spreads evenly and people will then get help all over Finland at the moment that disease comes. If the virus spreads on a one-time basis, then you won't get any help.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u55	Mr President! The situation is, in short, that the management of the health crisis has caused a serious economic crisis, which we also have to deal with at the same time with quite robust weapons. This morning, when I personally came by car, driving from that direction of Turku to Helsinki in the morning against the rising sun, I drove past huge lines of trucks, and I had hope. I thought Finland was alive, the goods were moving. I came to Helsinki. There have been many meetings during the day. I went out for some air. I saw families with children, kindergartens, children in the park. Helsinki lives, even though we now isolate it. This gave me such a will to fight and a certain optimism, that although the difficult times of this crisis are still ahead, we have hope when we are wise and reasonable. Four weeks ago, exactly four weeks ago, on Thursday 27 February, the Prime Minister announced how we are preparing to deal with the corona crisis. We had an hour and a half discussion here in Parliament. I read it through a few nights ago: 50 speeches, 14 of them by ministers, all by parties. We had a complete picture of the situation, we had a completely common line. No party had a different picture of this, there was no different line. In my opinion, this is the right direction. Of course, I understand that when we come to economic matters, there will be different priorities here, as there have been alternative proposals for what has now been put on the bottom. I said in my speech at the time — I am not going to repeat it, but the red thread was — that we must distinguish between what Parliament and the government are doing, what the operational management of this crisis and those who operate it, and our task here is to take care of the legislation, to ensure that the various sectors of government play well together, and to take care of the resources — these three things. The legislation is based on the Act on Contagious Diseases and the Act on Preparedness. Otherwise, the 50 speakers in the debate once mentioned the Emergency Act. It was in the SDP's group statement, which I had the honour of giving. I readily admit that I said at the time that I do not believe that there is a need for a law on preparedness. But that was the only speech where the Emergency Act was raised at the time. Well, we have seen, as the Prime Minister said today, that there is development in our legislation, and, of course, we keep recording those development needs. However, we have relatively effective legislation on this basis. And these days we are taking these important legislative decisions on a daily basis, constantly. The other thing was the coordination of the authorities. It has clearly been, as they say, a development area and is being invested in it. The third is what is now really the subject of this today: resources. At first, there was a little gloating that there was only EUR 9 million. Well, that was the money that was ready for quick action. Now we are making the first amending budget, EUR 389 million. This is just the first step in the management of the entire economic crisis, which is going to be EUR 15 to 20 billion in depth, that is to say, the 7 to 8% of our economy, well below the 2009 financial crisis, or compared to the situation in the early 1990s. It is now very important that we get this money moving quickly. At the end of the day, I would like to comment on the issue when much is being said about this testing. It's important. Today, Minister Kiuru told us that we have reached the rate of 2300 days in testing. We have 16,000 tested at the moment. It has found 960 positive samples, i.e. 6% of those tested, when it has been well targeted — it has also been criticised that the resource has now been targeted. If it had been completely open to testing everyone, maybe one to two per cent would have been found. This testing is a resource issue. But this rate is entirely proportional — as Mr Kiuru said today too — to the positive example often mentioned by South Korea. One more thing at the end: As far as the closure of restaurants is concerned, the problem is not that we now have this epidemic at a different rate in different regions, different regions, but the problem is that in each area we find the watering plants — I dare say — which are some kind of Finnish version of the Tyrol Coronal Ring, and they must be caught in the whole country at the same time. Once this legislation has been adopted, the Government must adopt a regulation in which they are specifically adopted throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u56	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the government and the Committee on Finance for the good work they have already done to deal with this crisis and have done a good job of doing so. In this state, this recession of the '90s has now been raised several times, and it has been tried to compare it somewhat with this issue. I thought about it myself, because then I was the head of the trust and went through the negotiations on redundancies, layoffs and savings agreements and everything that was at the time. And a lot of small entrepreneurs went down in that heavy depression, but the basis of that recession was the reckless use of money by banks. At the time, the banks were recklessly spending money, giving loans how they would happen, and Finland drifted into devaluation, and they were foreign loans to those entrepreneurs. At the same time, the volume of loans from entrepreneurs grew to a very high level, and a large number of entrepreneurs — small entrepreneurs, medium-sized enterprises — fell, very much. When we had municipalities with an unemployment rate of nearly 30 percent, it was a very difficult time financially for the municipalities and the people there. Now that I compare this situation and the measures that have been taken in advance, in relation to this situation, we have very well taken into account these small entrepreneurs, medium-sized entrepreneurs, businesses. And it has been dared to make such decisions, which can help not to fall into a spiral like that of the recession of the '90s. The difference between this and that, the biggest difference I see in that time, was that when the government took out a loan, it had an incredibly high interest rate. At the moment, if the government takes out a loan, it is almost non-interest-bearing loan and very advantageous to take, so that we can get over this situation and take care of this and get these companies, employees, employees' positions secured and keep Finland up with these measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u57	Mr President! Indeed, what has now been great to note here is that the government parties and the opposition have spoken in favour of this very same thing: it has been said that this economic issue should very much be dealt with in parliamentary terms, and it is, in fact, necessary for the next government parties to find the money for the expenses of this bill, and not, in any case, for this government to finish this mess, but everyone knows that this is one ten years, which is going to go on at least. I would like to give the government measures, not so much... I want to support these government cases, but now that the first money came in, 15 billion, there is a serious problem with the fact that there are about 14 billion loans, which now does not help many companies in the SME sector, because the situation is that if a six-month sale goes and takes out a loan, it is about ten years — they almost have to collect money — that they will get that bill paid. That is why I would like to put a few measures aside, which might be worth considering: Paying wages should be guaranteed by the State at 100%, which means that at the moment there is a problem that many SMEs may not be able to find that 20% in Finnvera guarantees. I would see, however, that the payment of wages is quite much in favour of the interests of employees, and then I would see that the state could guarantee 100% of this money, which goes to pay. In my opinion, pension insurance contributions could be abolished for three months and taxes should be deferred by at least three months. Of course, in the tax situation, it is a challenge not to be able to forgive them, so to speak, but to have them paid back in the long term. After all, we need support, and one good form of support is that energy taxation is calculated and energy charges are calculated in such a way that it can then be recovered at a later stage by increased charges, which means that even energy companies will not be left empty in the future. Company vehicle taxes could be abolished for three months. Small and medium-sized enterprises that use vehicles to a large extent — a small number of large companies have their own cars at the end of the game. In other words, this will help, not infinitely now, but it is one of its own weeds, for example, in the difficult situation of hauliers. Fortunately, you can still see quite a lot of them in that traffic, but it is absolutely certain that there will be quite a lot of price competition at the moment as to who will be allowed to continue in the industry tomorrow. In my opinion, even in a relatively short period of time, enforcement debts should be made at zero percentage points, because people are going to go into enforcement, so to speak, at shovel shops, so that it is going to explode in the hands, and it is going to be quite a burden on many of them for their mere interest rates. There is still a lot of work to be done for which, in principle, there is no need for money, such as the rationalisation of licence fees and licensing arrangements and a little flexibility. For example, when there are companies on the environmental permit side that have, for example, an environmental permit that allows a certain amount of activity on that property, I think it would be quite easy to raise temporarily those amounts, which of course does not mean that it is the final thing, but because for the time being it may be that you do not get rid of that item so easily and do not have the cash to stick to it, let them temporarily slide in this matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u58	Mr. Speaker! I would like to ask the Minister, when he is here as such with honour to answer the questions of our parliamentarians and listen to the debate: now that this evening has brought out the need for these direct actions by the various parties to save our jobs and facilitate the situation of entrepreneurs, how does the Minister assess the timetable within which the government will be able to bring the new amending budget to this house now, since, among other things, these tax measures and their effects were not directly involved in this additional budget which has now been in the house? Then, Mr President, two further brief remarks to the Minister: Firstly, one relates to access to finance for companies and to the decision taken recently by the Financial Supervisory Authority on the relaxation of capital requirements for these banks, which, in my view, is justified and good in this situation. We know that although, especially with Nordea's head office moving to Finland, this size of our banking sector has, first of all, grown significantly and there are also certain risks, in any case, our banking sector is in good condition. In this situation, it is also important that flexibility should also be introduced, so that companies will then also be able to organise their loans and hopefully receive long payment periods. Now that these capital requirements have once been relaxed by the Financial Supervisory Authority, how do you intend to ensure that these relaxed capital requirements are channelled directly into support to entrepreneurs, so that they can now receive this assistance more widely than they have done in the past? The Financial Supervisory Authority stated in its press release that the Financial Supervisory Authority will closely monitor this situation so that these flexibilitys will not be channelled into the payment of dividends. However, it would be important for Parliament to be informed directly from the Minister and to be sure of the way in which you intend to ensure that this is really going to happen. Then, Mr President, the second question that I am sure will come up against us in Parliament is the situation of the Employment Fund. We know that the Employment Fund is now almost full of a cyclical buffer, but now, on the basis of the news of the last few days, the Employment Fund will have quite a lot of challenges in how the Fund will cope with these obligations. I would have asked the minister: What measures is the government preparing for with regard to the Employment Fund, since now, apparently, unemployment security expenditure is going to increase very strongly? How long ago, for example, will their ability to take care of this payment of unemployment benefit under these marginal conditions be maintained? So what can you say about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u59	Thank you. — Then Mr Orpo, and then Minister Kulmuni will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u60	Mr President! Firstly, in general terms, I would like to say that this corona virus is a common issue and a common challenge — both the fight against the virus, the stopping of it, and then the minimisation of all its enormous consequences, the damage. The opposition is fully involved in these, but it naturally requires that we are at the source of all possible information, that we have timely information and that we also understand that when the proposals are brought up quickly and are hugely large, then the opposition must have the opportunity to express its own views on them and sometimes, at some point, to disagree slightly or sometimes rather disagree with them. But the matter itself, the seriousness and the fight against this interest rate, is quite clear, and now this draft amending budget has the money and the right measures to stop the interest rate and help businesses. In my 20 years as a politician, I have never seen anything like it when, at the moment, I see from my own media and magazines how entrepreneurs contact me. It's a huge emergency. In just a few weeks, this has created a tsunami-like phenomenon in the field of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and self-employed people, and companies are really on the brink of a gap and, unfortunately, some are already in the abyss. This, of course, requires a response in this situation. To that end, for example, the Coalition Party can always talk about keeping public finances healthy, that then, in the midst of the crisis, we can afford to help Finns. And now we are in the midst of that crisis, and then indebtedness in this situation is acceptable, understandable, because there is no other way. But this is only the beginning, unfortunately, if we think about what we are facing. This is now a supplementary budget. I'm sure more will come in for the corona itself. Municipalities and hospital districts need huge additional resources for this, especially when the initial situation is poor before the corona. As far as companies are concerned, this billion will not suffice. Unfortunately, much more support is needed because it makes much more sense to direct aid to companies and to deal with their cash crisis than to do what was done in the '90s when banks were supported — much more sensible now is to act in the field of the front and direct money to deal with the cash crisis of companies and help them to stand up. In addition, there will be costs of people becoming unemployed. It will increase social security costs, unemployment security expenditure and thus increase central government expenditure. Then if it happens again that the interest rates on government debts will rise, if our routing is down, it will increase spending enormously again. In other words, we have expenditure on public finances in sight. At the same time – that is to say, it is as if you are predicting the next pair of locusts, but unfortunately I want to go through this picture of the situation in its roughness – the income side will also dive, because the fact that we have closed Finland will probably mean tens of percent loss of tax revenue or at least large percentages and billions loss of tax revenue. And that means that debt will be fast this year — but, as I said, acceptable. It is now a question of how much we can minimise the permanent damage that this crisis will cause. Permanent damage will be caused if we get high unemployment and Finnish companies have gone bankrupt behind it. That is why we are now investing in the fact that companies will stand up and rise when this interest rate has been reversed — hopefully during this year and as quickly as possible — that companies will be able to continue their activities, that people will have jobs to return to if they have been laid off, and that the entrepreneur can go back to his business so that life can continue relatively normal. But it is clear already that permanent damage will occur. We are going to have to go back and forth again, just as we had caught up with the ten-year lost decade in the economy. That is why these measures are needed now. It is therefore justified that companies should be helped with pure money now. And that is what we in the assembly have put forward a long list of our own means, and we hope that they will help the government to work on them. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, Mr Kulmun, for this good debate and for having asked for these and taken seriously the proposals made by the Assembly. It is excellent and gives hope for the future. But then again, my Minister Kulmun...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u61	Thank you. — Minister Kulmun will soon have other tasks. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u62	Mr President! Thank you to Parliament for an excellent debate on the amending budget, and thank you to the Committee on Finance for a good report and for your cooperation on it. As the situation progresses at such a huge pace, even after the government added an economic estimate, new information and information has become available every day on how layoffs have expanded, on the other hand, the restrictive measures supported by the government and the whole of Parliament have intensified. It is quite clear that these will have a significant impact on our economy, and it will not be temporary and short in any way, but it is very possible that this will result in a longer recession and that Europe will not return to the time that was still a few weeks ago. Of course, for Finland, it has been more difficult to cope with the financial crisis than for many other countries in Europe, and we must, of course, do everything to get out of this crisis. Over the last decade, we did not reach out to our public finances in the way we would have liked them to, which is why some countries, of course, have had different opportunities to take direct action. It will be quite clear that this year the state will be in severe debt, there will be losses in tax revenue, we will be taking on additional debt, and we will do so all because we are fighting this virus and we will be able to help businesses to overcome this completely exceptional situation by all means possible. And this is a similar situation in almost every European country this year, and we are not an exception in that regard. But what we can do now quickly must be such that we know that they are temporary, targeted and effective. We do not have time at the moment to build a new system of payments, new systems, but we must use creativity to get the money moving quickly. That is why, for example, the Committee on Finance's response to the fact that it was possible to increase these direct payments to small and medium-sized enterprises is very important. As early as next week, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy will issue a regulation on how, through elys, money is to be allocated to small businesses. There will be a discussion with municipalities on how they can help self-employed people in particular. In the same way, next week, a proposal for a tax deferral will be submitted to Parliament, which is much wider than a neighbouring country in Sweden. The interest rate that was criticised here will be lower for us than for the western neighbour. But, of course, in such a situation, it is my job to ensure that there is also the liquidity in the Treasury that we can now manage all the medical expenses that will come. Of course, it is quite clear that there are a huge number of demands, and we will be happy to respond to them all, but we must take measures which, at this moment, help most of all and ensure that we can not only deal with and respond to this virus epidemic but also overcome this economic crisis. There is certainly no point in contrasting the various measures that the government has already brought to Parliament for the benefit of the economy in a short period of time. The fact that Finnvera's lending mandates have been increased is very important for certain companies. The fact that the Financial Supervisory Authority has taken its own decisions and has thus been able to release EUR 30 billion of additional powers in the form of a reduction in the capital requirement of banks is a very important issue. And the fact that the Bank of Finland has launched a programme for domestic bonds is very important, as is the fact that the committee has today made a billion dollars in direct, targeted subsidies for small and medium-sized enterprises. All these measures are needed, and after that we still need action. But we also need to move to the point where we begin to talk about how we will get out of this crisis — we will get out of this crisis — and how we will then build our economy so that public finances are strengthened, restored and once again re-emerged. The spending limits are set at the beginning of April and it is planned to bring the next amending budget to Parliament. There are certainly many things that should have been commented on here too, but we will certainly continue the debate next week with regard to the rapid legislative measures that the government will bring in order to prevent this crisis, and undoubtedly also with regard to the economic policy debate, which is still somewhat clouded, because we do not know how this crisis will proceed through such medicine and whatever happens, but the government will certainly do its best for the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u63	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your strength to be here. Before you leave, this is exactly the kind of tip that comes directly from the firm, and if you don't mind, I'll read the grip here: "The customers will call and ask for advice on how to deal with this. Wage certificates are needed for laid-off workers. Help is needed to apply for funding. Your own employees are working at a distance and work is carried out under exceptional arrangements. In this situation, accountants and wage-counters may also fall ill." And now this tip, which does not require much financially, but could be a great help for entrepreneurs, especially accountants, for all entrepreneurs: "I hope that we will now, for example, give an additional period of two months for the submission of company accounts and tax returns." I wish this opportunity could be considered. The deadlines will expire at the end of March and in the second group at the end of April. And now for the economy. As the Minister said, we go deep, but Finland rises. We're gonna have to take extra debt. In the '90s, rescue, big rescue, was a Nokia boom. At the moment, there is no such thing in sight, hopefully there will be. There are a lot of good things in the Government Programme, hard objectives, but it is now an economic base for external reasons — I do not blame the Government, I say, for external reasons — that is why the Government's programme must be completely rewritten on the basis of what is available after this crisis. There has been talk of security of supply and self-sufficiency in food. In some contexts and discussions, security of supply has been a little something that has been a little lightly viewed and is a little ridiculous, that is why it is needed. Yes, we do need it, and I'm sure we've all learned this lesson now. Food self-sufficiency is an important issue for all of us, and its importance has only grown in the context of this crisis. I think that, globally, the effects will also be in line with the fact that production and supply chains will not be dispersed as long as they are now, that the stock cycle will not be made as short as it is now, but that the activities will be more concentrated on more manageable entities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u64	Mr President! I would have liked to thank Minister Kulmun for his excellent speech and for his reply to the debate here. I also hope that this preparatory action on economic matters can be extended in a parliamentary manner, so that all the parliamentary parties will be involved, because this burden will continue to be borne for a long time. That is why I regret somewhat the attitude that the central economic expert and the vice-president of the committee, Mr Kiviranta, had towards the opposition in such a serious place. In many ways, when Finland is on the brink of a gulf, he will give the kind of speech we had to hear today in this Chamber. We have not made any proposals for the meeting because we want to make a bigger presentation than the government has done. All of you have come to know us as responsible economic operators, but now the experts have felt that these proposals, which the government introduced a week ago on Friday, were completely inadequate and that is why the responsible opposition came up with its own options. We were pleased that the government came to the same line as we had proposed in our own draft amending budgets. And quite a few speeches, such as those from Minister Kulmun and many others, have been exactly the same as the objections raised by the Assembly. We are concerned about entrepreneurs, businesses, that no healthy company should be allowed to die in such a situation, that is, in a situation where we have a lot of companies that have worked perfectly for years, some decades, paid all their bills on time, their obligations, their taxes, and suddenly their cash flow is zero. By the way, the entrepreneur in such a situation is amazed, and his employees are also facing a serious situation, and that is why we in the assembly have made a significant contribution to supporting entrepreneurship, and we have continued to promote the demand for these strong additional investments by small businesses, sole entrepreneurs, business name entrepreneurs. And when Kiviranta, the downtown financial expert, laughed at the performances of the convention and thought it populist, I would like to ask if Mr Kiviranta was here in the Chamber, if he himself believes that the billion they presented, which was approved today in the Committee on Finance, is the sum enough for Finnish companies. I can say it's not gonna be enough. There will be more packages in this Chamber, which will have to give money to companies when we all want to see no healthy company going bankrupt in this crisis. However, when, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is that, even after this crisis, we need barbers, cafés and those activities that have been working properly for years and even decades, it is absolutely foolish to let such services and businesses go bankrupt, and that is why we will certainly be dealing with further subsidies for companies in this Chamber in the future. And it has been nice to see that this has not really divided this Chamber apart from Mr Kiviranta, not very much from the left to the right. In other words, everyone has seen that there are huge numbers of workers in these companies, the ordinary housewives and mothers whose jobs are now under threat, and that is why these measures are needed. Mr President! After a while we will be able to vote on this first amending budget, and it is just the moment when the next amending budget comes to Parliament's attention, and I think that the revenue base is already beginning to show where we are going, and that amending budget will be much darker for Finnish society than this one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u65	Mr President! Having listened to this debate today, it has had a common tone from Vähämäki to Orpo, Mr Lindén: everyone has talked about having a common goal, and surely the essence of that common goal is that no healthy company or any person should be allowed to die in this process. We must do everything we can to overcome this crisis. Here I had four authoritative, weighty speeches from the second largest opposition party — in between with the Minister’s speech — which stressed the responsibility of the coalition in this joint process, and lastly, Mr Heinonen underlined that they were the bearers of the group. The fact that the government has listened to the concern of the coalition that resources have not been sufficiently invested in was also highlighted on the part of the Coalition Party. Now they're investing in them. Is it because the government has heard the Coalition Party or the experts, I will not comment on it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u68	Mr President! As Mr Orpo said earlier, we now have what will enable us to prepare for this crisis when the debt ratio was broken below 60%. That is why, in the good times of the economy, we need the economy to be in good shape and to put it in order so that, when we have such a situation, we can react to it. Gross domestic product can fall by 10, up to 15 per cent this year, according to the worst forecasts, and that does mean a reduction of up to 20 billion dollars in the state budget. But we must accept it on the principle that no healthy business will now be allowed to go bankrupt in this situation and the epidemic will be stopped and the victims will be avoided. I thank the Minister for Finance and the entire government for their flexibility and good reaction to the plight of Finnish companies. And as I have listened to this debate in my room, there seems to be a very large degree of unity in Parliament, including in the size of this amending budget at this stage. I also believe that the opposition's call for them to be better listened to in this exceptional situation in the preparation of economic matters is justified. I will raise one smaller point in this connection. Experts have estimated that in six weeks’ time, the epidemic peak will be in Finland. If this were a war situation and we knew that there would be a major attack across the border in six weeks' time, then now there should be a tough preparation going on, all the means being used, and also a little straightening out the boundaries of the administrative branches and making quick decisions. This epidemic peak six weeks away means that our intensive care capacity will be extremely tight. A study has now been launched on whether, under an exceptional arrangement, the Finnish industry could produce breathing machines and protective equipment in this situation. I've been working on it myself at the request. I was in contact with the Security of Supply Centre on Saturday and it was stated that there should be an STM order. I do not think that this is what should be done in this situation, but that we should move quickly. We now have a study of this domestic consortium for the manufacture of breathing machines. This will now be completed in a few days and, according to the information I have received, there should now be a good capacity for it. But it also requires extraordinary action from now on. If this report is completed this weekend, my question to the Minister would have been whether we have an order slip ready, whether we have money and the ability to make that order at the Security of Supply Centre or elsewhere in the cash register. You can't wax that order for two weeks because it's out of that manufacturing time. In an exceptional situation, you have to be able to make quick decisions and you have to be able to put this kind of process in motion. The second angle is then different certifications and approvals. For example, oxygen is manufactured in industry, and it is close to the taxes of medical oxygen. I believe that such exceptional measures should also be prepared and then introduced if necessary. These devices also require strict certification and should then be prioritised by the appropriate authorities. I hope that if this study shows that these can be done in Finland, the decision will be made immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u69	Mr President! I would like to tell you again about the rest of the evening, so that many of you will understand here — there are no ministers here, but there are representatives of the government parties — that when those decisions are taken on how to give support to companies, everyone in this Chamber should understand that this is not about us supporting that company, but also about ensuring that we do not have additional personal injury and, in particular, death. And at the end of the day, I want to say the last thing I want to say about this situation myself, and I want to give some encouragement to the entrepreneurs who are in that pain: I myself, in the last moments of five years of bankruptcy, sat there in my own former — I knew at that point that I was on the steps of my former — my house, and I was pulling cigarettes there, and I looked at the row of cars, and I saw what car would take, where would be the shortest way out of the exhaust pipe to pull a hose out of the back window. And I know these cases are going to come because of the corona stuff. It is extremely important to really understand that these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are actually involved in the whole of their activities. If we are going to fuck this up now and we are going to let the money go to big companies that have a much greater chance of dealing with the financial crisis or something like that, then I say that we have really failed in that. What we really need to do now is to make sure that the money goes where the money is needed, not just because of this monetary aspect, but because there are people there who have all their butts attached to the company that every piece of concrete on its feet is secured by the company. And that is also why I would like to point out that I want to encourage those entrepreneurs who, at home at the moment, are probably wondering what the hell they would do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u70	Mr President! I would also like to thank you all for this good and constructive debate that has taken place in this Chamber. From here there is such an atmosphere that the common goal of all of us here is sincerely to save people and all the companies we could help, and to build a strong bridge over this difficult time. It is something that is heard and exclaims from all of us. Of course, the starting points are slightly different, but the objective is clearly common. Mr President! In the fight against the Korona virus, drastic action has had to be taken. There is also a need to act quickly and extensively in support of businesses and people. This amending budget relates to the EUR 15 billion aid package that the government presented to us last week. It is important that the first package of economic policies was completed quickly. This package includes a wide range of tools to help companies cope with the crisis, support people's livelihoods and safeguard the functioning of the labour market. It may be particularly gratifying once again that, in a difficult situation, solutions have been sought together. The government is implementing most of the proposals made by the social partners in the crisis package. In addition, the government improves the livelihood of entrepreneurs and freelancers through social security. I hope that we can get the proposals on these to Parliament quickly. The draft amending budget before us will safeguard the resources of public authorities, especially health care, in an acute situation. Some EUR 250 million will be added to these. It is clear that this is just the beginning. At the next stage, it is important to secure the resources for social security payments in particular, so that people do not have to wait too long for benefits. Significant powers and additions are proposed to safeguard the liquidity of companies. These are direct aid paid through Business Finland and Ely Centres to firms in difficulty. In the Committee on Finance, we decided to propose an increase in these powers to a total of EUR 1 billion. With that sum we will get off to a good start, but more action is needed, as has also been said here today. This draft amending budget also suggests that the Government could grant a State guarantee of EUR 600 million for the financing needs of Finnair Corporation. As a responsible owner, the State must support Finnair once the industry has become in a serious situation. All actions in this draft amending budget are justified and necessary in order to soften the impact of the corona virus on society. However, it is clear that the effects will be strong for both companies and people. It is therefore important that the government has announced that it is preparing to submit new draft amending budgets in accordance with the situation. The resources of the authorities will then be needed further, and businesses and people will need more help in a difficult situation. Particular attention should now be paid to sectors in the most serious difficulties, such as tourism, the restaurant sector and cultural sectors. Social security should also be removed. The financial situation of municipalities was difficult at the beginning of this crisis. The crisis makes it even more difficult. It is therefore good that the Government is also preparing a package of spending limits to strengthen the finances of municipalities. The economic impact of the crisis will continue long after the epidemic. Therefore, after the acute phase, growth needs to be strengthened for a long time with active resuscitation. I hope it'll be soon. At the same time, we must ensure that all people receive the services they need both during and after the crisis. The need for many services will grow much, and everyone needs to be taken care of. In particular, the resources for basic social and health services, early childhood education and education must be secured and the increased needs for funding must also be met in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u71	Mr President! Many very good speeches have been made here, but I would particularly like to thank the representative. This is a very good speech. Norms and regulation in this society have been made to protect us from abuse of power and many other things. Unfortunately, they can also work against their own purpose at times, and now that we are acting in this situation, it is absolutely essential to look at how things can be done, and if there is a need to dismantle standards on the road, let it be done quickly. It is extremely important and wonderful that we now have a process which, hopefully, will also be able to respond to the future need that we already know will come from, for example, breathing equipment, let alone additional protection for the needs of health care and the rest of society. However, the unfortunate fact is that more people have already died and are likely to die. It is certainly not preventable, I think, but it is up to us to try to ensure that as few Finns as possible are killed, at least not that our treatment capacity is insufficient. However, there are many people who belong to risk groups that do not necessarily benefit from any protection in the event of infection, and it is therefore extremely important that all those who work with risk groups, for example at home, are protected as much as possible so that the virus does not spread among risk groups. I got a call today from a person who was worried about the memory-disordered and how the memory-disordered can be instructed when the short-term memory is not necessarily working. However, many of them still live at home, thus allowing them to move freely. It would have been very interesting to hear that such people have now been taken into account in ministries and municipalities, who, not necessarily maliciously but, as it were, unwittingly, expose themselves and possibly others when moving out of their own home or service home. I hope that this too has been taken into account in order to limit their mobility in this situation as well as possible. I would like to add that the opposition has, as it were, been criticised here for proposing statements and also for providing additional funding for some of them. It is really great that the Committee on Finance increased subsidies to businesses, for example. However, when the opposition has not actually been involved in the preparation, but has gone as if in normal order, it is absolutely essential that normal parliamentaryism works and there is also the opportunity to present a variety of appropriations — when we all know, and many in this House have said that more amending budgets will be needed. For example, additional funds are needed for police activities. Mr Ohio himself said here in Question Time today that the police alone will not be able to manage this control and I am sure that there will also be a need for additional resources. Now we have just heard that the garrisons, the Defence Forces, will help under the supervision of Uusimaa. At the end of the day, I would like to say that when we are here as decision-makers, the opposition and the government, to take this forward, we must remember, however, that at this stage we are not responsible for preparing the opposition. We are trying to bring the various proposals we think of and have also received from the airport, to the attention of the government, and of course we hope that the government will take them into account as quickly and as quickly as possible. And, fortunately, this has been the case in many respects now. However, I am still concerned when I know that preparation always takes time, that many of these concerns have been known to us several weeks ago. I hope that every time a new idea comes along or, as it were, an obstacle to its preparation and resolution, it will be taken up right away so that, in the event that it may be realised, it can be better tackled. In other words, I also hope that the opposition's proposals will not, as it were, be underestimated here. That, unfortunately, has been the case in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u72	Mr President! Currently, due to contacts with the corona virus, national telephone services, such as Kela, have become congested and physical service points have been closed. In panic, laid-off and laid-off, thousands of citizens who are concerned about their livelihoods, are trying to find out about their unemployment benefits, infectious disease allowances and income support. It is good that the committee's report has taken account of the increased resource needs of the Social Insurance Institution. In addition to money, however, a lot of skilled and trained labour is needed. Let us hope that this will be invested quickly and thus ease the burden on these people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u73	Mr President! Despite my young age, I have seen many crises and many wars. It is certainly rare for people in this Chamber, that much people are young, then born in the last Finnish wars. But I have seen wars, and many of those wars have survived in many places. One way of survival has been how the parliament and representatives of that country have created hope for tomorrow. In my opinion, this place has brought to light today the concerns that come from the field. At the same time, I feel that in this house we could talk more about all the opportunities that we still have in Finland. How do you turn these threats that are now under control into opportunities? One thing could be that we would talk about Supercell still — when people are at home, so they use different games — thus actually feeling relatively well. Solar Foods is about to develop protein directly from the atmosphere. We have many, many opportunities, in terms of technological innovation and in other areas, where we can really make this place rise after this crisis. We have those abilities, we have that will mode, and we have those people. The Coalition Party always talks about how the Coalition Party believes in Finland and Finns. In this house, we all believe, as the Coalition Party believes, in Finland and Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u78	Mr President! First of all, inspired by Mr Al-Tae's speech: the vision must be that we can manage, that is, Finns can manage and Finland can manage with certainty. I will come back to the issues of Question Time. I asked Prime Minister Marin, who unfortunately cannot be here now, what is the government's strategy? And then I don't ask what was done last week, when there were contingency laws, or what is being done today, but what is the strategy, how are we going to get over this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u81	Mr President! I am sorry, I did not intend to take the floor and delay any of this debate, but Mr Laakso's speech from personal experience during the recession of the 1990s made me wonder that I am still opening my mouth. We have talked about the plight of entrepreneurs, and each of us receives numerous communications from concerned people, entrepreneurs who are concerned about livelihoods, the continuation of their businesses and health and their children’s studies and so on — none of us will escape those messages. Today I got the most unstoppable contact from a young guy whose life hadn't gone quite according to the scripts. He had recently caught up with his life and was in the service that was able to help him, but came as a corona, and this young guy no longer exists at the moment. So this tells us that we are on the verge of a very serious matter and we will encounter other deaths than what we now read in the paper every morning about how many deaths today have occurred around the corona. I really hope that in this Chamber we will be able to work together and work together in every way that we do not have any entrepreneur or any worker, no mother, a father, to think about desperate solutions to this issue. The more we can save lives, the better. And that's what we're fighting for right now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u82	Mrs Viljanen and others, you are well aware that there is freedom to speak in this Chamber, and it is important that you speak what is needed there is no need to apologize for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u83	Three proposals on the basis of the debate have been put to the vote. The vote will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and proceedings shall be suspended and the session resumed on 21.20.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u84	The sitting adjourned at 9:07 p.m. and the third item in the order of business will now be resumed. This is the first time that Parliament's decision-making has taken an exceptional course of action, and I believe that its background should be recorded in the Minutes. In the run-up to the interest-rate crisis, the parliamentary groups agreed among themselves that occasional majority voting would not be used. This is already the time this agreement provided for. We have a large number of representatives from Parliament on sick leave and part of telework, just in case, and it would not be appropriate for them to be invited to the vote as in normal circumstances. That is why representatives through their groups have agreed that this additional budget vote will take place this time only a part of the representatives, about a quarter of them, and that they will be divided by groups in a manner consistent with the relative size of the groups. This satisfies the agreement that there will be no random majority. I believe that this should be recorded, because in such matters Parliament must be open to the outside world. With the support of Ville Vähämäki Arja Juvonen, in the general debate, has proposed that the proposal under protest 1 be taken as the basis for the debate, Timo Heinonen Sari Sarkomaa has proposed that the proposal under objection 2 be taken as the basis for the debate and Päivi Räsänen Sari Essayah has proposed that the proposal under objection 3 be taken as the basis for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u85	The proposals must be put to the vote. The vote will take place first on Ville Vähämäki's proposal against Timo Heinonen's proposal, then on Päivi Räsänen's proposal, and finally on the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u86	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. In this context, discussion is also allowed on the 5th issue of the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u87	Mr President! The Government, in cooperation with the President of the Republic, has stated on 16 March 1920 that Finland is subject to exceptional conditions as referred to in Article 3(3) and (5) of the Emergency Act because of the COVID-19 corona virus pandemic. The pandemic caused by the new corona virus has spread throughout the world and also to Finland. This is a serious disease for some of the population, which, especially in older people over 70 years of age, poses a very significant risk of death. Contrary to what was thought at the beginning of the pandemic, corona infection is also very serious in some younger age groups, also causing pneumonia that threatens the lives and health of some 30-69-year-old infected people and requires intensive care. As the duration of the epidemic is prolonged, the proportion of cases of serious disease among middle-aged people has generally increased. In spreading the pandemic, it has pushed the countries to the limit of health care, especially hospital care. A significant proportion, up to a third, of patients admitted to hospital treatment have been taken after a few days of intensive care. The need for treatment has been specifically directed towards intensive treatment of severe respiratory failure and multi-organ damage, without which the patient will as a general rule die. The intensive treatment of severe respiratory failure associated with viral pneumonia is very demanding, the improvement is typically slow and the duration of intensive treatment is long. In Finland, the epidemic also causes an unprecedented load on special medical care, especially heavy intensive care. During the epidemic, the Korona virus also exerts a great deal of strain on primary health care, social services and hospital wards. Due to the pandemic caused by the Korona virus, the Government has adopted a wide range of measures aimed at slowing down and preventing the epidemic, securing the capacity and capacity of health care and protecting the lives and health of people particularly at risk. The government has closely monitored the corona virus situation and has been prepared for an epidemic since the beginning of January. Finland has also taken active and forward-looking measures to curb the epidemic. In February, the government informed all parliamentary groups about the situation and the Prime Minister was informed of Finland's preparedness for the corona virus. In addition, the Government set up a COVID-19 coordination group, which is currently working, consisting of the Chiefs of Staff and Emergency Services of the responsible ministries. At the beginning of March, the Government called for the withdrawal of public events until the end of May, the quarantine of two weeks returning from epidemic areas, the primacy of telework, the avoidance of travel, the restriction of close contact to protect groups at risk and the increase of disease testing. The Government also announced that it would be prepared for the costs of the corona virus by means of amending budgets. On Monday, 16 March, the government issued 19 new measures. These included policies to suspend primary, secondary and higher education, to restrict meetings of more than ten people in public places, to close public spaces such as libraries, museums, sports and leisure facilities, and to ban visits to housing services for elderly and other high-risk groups, care facilities, health care units and hospitals. It was recommended that private and third sector operators and religious communities close the premises. Finland started preparations for the reintroduction of border controls and it was decided to suspend passenger and passenger transport. People over 70 years of age were obliged by the Code of Conduct to avoid close contact. On 17 March, the Government adopted two regulations on the introduction of the Emergency Act to Parliament, which, among other things, restricted the sale of medicines, goods and services used in health care, the organisation of education and training, interfered with the organisation of social and health care services and extended the period of notice for health care, social services, emergency services and emergency services. On Friday, 20 March, the government presented measures to preserve jobs and a large total of EUR 15 billion to support businesses and people. On Tuesday 24 March, the government submitted a bill to the Parliament to close restaurants, cafés and liquor shops to prevent close contact. At the same time, the government is cooperating with the Parliament's Finance Committee to significantly increase direct payments to help small and medium-sized enterprises through the crisis period. The only effective way to slow down the epidemic is to reduce people-to-people contacts and mobility through restrictive measures. It is important that the necessary measures are put in place to ensure that the capacity for intensive care is sufficient, that treatment should not be severely restricted and that the lives and health of those infected and others in need of intensive care are not compromised. In order to ensure this, the Government issued a decree to Parliament yesterday introducing the powers provided for in Article 118 of the Emergency Act. The regulation restricts the movement of persons to and from the territory of the province of Uusimaa for a limited period. At the same time, the Government has taken a decision on the introduction of the mandate of the health care staff provided for in Article 95(2) of the Emergency Act and on the application of the related Articles 96 to 103. Mr President! Pursuant to Article 118 of the Emergency Act, the movement of persons is restricted to and from the territory of the Province of Uusimaa, in such a way as to prohibit entry and exit from the Province of Uusimaa. However, everyone has the right to return to their home or place of residence. The restriction of movement referred to in the Regulation may be waived where it is necessary for the exercise of official activities, for the exercise of employment, business or trust, or for the fulfilment of a statutory obligation, or for the death of a next of kin, for the exercise of the right of access to the child or for any other personal reason of weight. Such a personal reason cannot be regarded as a reason for leisure travel. At the request of the police, the person shall provide an explanation of the destination and purpose of the journey. Foreign and domestic air transport is allowed within the limits imposed on aviation at Helsinki Airport. At present, the epidemic is well beyond the rest of the country in Uusimaa. The incidence of confirmed cases of coronavirus in the region and reported to the CDC is more than twice as high as the incidence in the rest of Finland. There are also relatively more people in need of hospital care than elsewhere in Finland. The risk of a significant spread of infections to other parts of Finland through non-essential travel from Uusimaa is high. The central objective of the restriction is to slow down the spread of the epidemic and to prevent the risk of endangering the lives and health of citizens. In terms of both the objective of the restriction and its purpose, it is necessary to restrict the movement of unnecessary persons from Uusimaa to other parts of Finland. Since the virus travels with people, there is no other way to prevent the spread from Uusimaa to other parts of Finland. Also, there should be no other reason to travel to Uusimaa from other parts of Finland, as the risk of infection is high in the region and the return to Finland spreads the virus. The restriction of movement between Uusimaa and other Finland is therefore necessary, as referred to in Section 118 of the Emergency Act, to ensure that the outbreak can be slowed down sufficiently in other parts of Finland. The mobility restriction can be estimated to ensure availability of intensive care and thereby reduce deaths for both those infected with COVID-19 and others in need of intensive care. There are no alternative powers under normal legislation that can ensure that the objective is achieved equally effectively. The Act of Preparedness does not provide powers to achieve the same objective by addressing citizens' rights and freedoms in a narrower way. The Government considers that the measure is necessary and proportionate. The restriction will be set at the end of Sunday 19 April 2020. The application of the Regulation and the progress of the epidemic will be closely monitored. If the conditions of application are no longer met, the Regulation shall be repealed. If, during the period of validity of the regulation, it is already found that the epidemic has progressed to such an extent from Uusimaa to the rest of Finland that the movement restriction no longer has any significant effect, the restriction will be lifted. Mr President! As the virus epidemic expands, it is possible that health care intervention units will create a shortage of labour as the demand for services increases. The shortage of health care workers can also be increased by the fallout of health care personnel. This can significantly complicate the operation of critical services. The primary means of ensuring an adequate workforce are the provision of services and the voluntary recruitment of additional staff. The Government has taken a decision on the introduction of the powers provided for in Article 95(2) of the Emergency Act and on the application of Articles 96 to 103. Section 95(2) of the Emergency Act lays down the employment obligations of health care personnel. Under the Regulation, the working obligations of health care staff can be applied throughout the national territory. The provisions of Chapter 14 of the Emergency Act also apply to the protection of the status and rights of the worker. These provisions concern the obligation to register for persons covered by the obligation to work, the content of the work order, the restrictions on the issuing of a work order and the matters to be taken into account when the work order is issued. In addition, the provisions relating to the employment relationship, the conditions of the employment relationship and the employer's obligation to provide information and the register of employment obligations will apply. The purpose of using these powers is to ensure an adequate number of staff during a virus epidemic in order to ensure adequate capacity in social and health services. The Regulation will remain in force until 13 April 2020. Mr President! Public authorities have a duty to safeguard the right of everyone to life, to ensure adequate health services for everyone even during a pandemic and to promote the health of the population. The measures necessary to achieve these objectives are exceptionally far-reaching, including those that lack fundamental human rights. There are very strong grounds for introducing restrictions on movement and residence in the event of a pandemic. Restrictions can ensure the functioning of the health system and thus combat serious threats to human life and health. These implementing regulations will introduce provisions on preparedness which the Government considers necessary in the current situation and proportionate to slow down the spread and progression of the COVID-19 pandemic and, in particular, to ensure the adequacy of management and other human resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u88	Mr President! We have made exceptional laws here these days, and we are in fact doing a completely exceptional piece of legislation: the rest of Finland is being isolated from Uusimaa. In fact, we go back a hundred years to civil war years or years of war, when the country has been divided in this way. I fully understand this decision-making and reflection, the importance and importance of the borderline. In some ways, however, it would have seemed that such an intervention in freedom of movement, in an elemental law, should have used the constitutional order and the five-sixth urgency. I'm not going to make an act about it, but I'm thinking this out loud. Mr President! This corona pandemic is a treacherous enemy, and it is particularly treacherous to the elderly. That is why the decisions of the government and the decisions of our Parliament regarding the fact that people over 70 are living in conditions such as quarantine at the moment have been fully considered. The majority of elderly people have also acted in accordance with the guidelines given by health authorities: they have minimised their external physical contacts. Tens of thousands have taken advantage of the protection provided by Finnish nature and moved to their cottages. Fortunately, we have an exceptionally large system of summer cottages, the special value of which is visible right now, in a crisis situation. Throughout our painful history the Finns have fled, when the persecutor strikes, into the hidden stimulants of the wilderness, so now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u91	Mr President! Restrictions are necessary when they are made in a timely and adequate manner. Things have been done in this corona epidemic that could have been done differently. Insufficient testing and slow restrictions have caused the epidemic to spread in Uusimaa. According to THL’s estimate, nearly two hundred thousand people come back to Finland from the risk area of the corona epidemic and some of them have a viral infection on their way. How many of them actually say they have symptoms, if they want to get back to Finland? Their instructions at the airport have been inferior, and they are now able to continue their journey to the rest of Finland. Now that we are putting an end to the borders of Uusimaa, there must be clear plans at the latest at this point to move Finns from abroad from the airport to their homes so that it is a real quarantine to which they are moving, without, for example, going through public transport. One should also wonder if they can cross the border of Uusimaa within the country if their home is outside Uusimaa. Now, according to this presentation, they can. And how to deal with passengers coming from ports? The authorities must give clear orders and instructions to those returning from abroad to prevent further expansion of the virus in our country. Now is the last time to change this policy. At the same time, we are restricting the right of the conscripts to return to their place of residence, i.e. to impose restrictions so that our own sons, who perform the military service, are not allowed to return to their place of residence for holidays, even though the Defence Forces themselves have done exemplary work in this fight against the corona epidemic by staggering the holidays in such a way that they do not deal with each other there. So here's the question: is this the reward for the work they have done well? The epidemic has not spread in the garrison, it has been a good source of contamination with the transmission chains. I would like to ask this again to assess whether there can be any change to this. The uncertainty of the garrison is large, and it causes mental stress. Why do the garrisons not have the right to return to their home or place of residence when everyone else has that right? Even ask other people to come back but not conscripts. Is this equal treatment? If the garrison stays in the garrison, it could take months at its worst. None of us believe that this restriction will be over in three weeks. It'll probably last longer. Then I would also like to mention the critical professions. For these early childhood education and the first classes, we had to list the critical professions in the regulation, but we had to abandon it when it was unclearly recorded, even if it had been a legitimate listing. Now, in exceptional circumstances, when the majority of children are in remote education and the borders of Uusimaa are being closed, the categories of workers of critical players in society for whom special arrangements may be needed should be specified, and these would also be the categories of workers who can move across this border. If all possible workers can move across the border, what is the significance of this whole closure of Uusimaa? Yes, it should go through the definition of these critical groups of workers. This kind of corona epidemic will certainly get worse, and when there may be new exceptional situations in the future, then it is particularly important for us to have these groups classified. But it is important now for the rest of Finland that the situation does not end in the same situation as here in Uusimaa, that milk falls, that is, it is now important to take action quickly elsewhere, to do enough testing and also to make the necessary restrictions to prevent the spread of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u92	Mr President! Other countries have previously imposed curfews in order to protect the population from the spread of the virus, even in such a way that it has been decided to introduce the protection of movement when the number of infections was lower than in Finland when compared with the population, even though Finland did not even test at the same rate as other countries. So it is ultimately a question of political reflection. I support and thank the government for activation of Section 118 of the Emergency Act to isolate Uusimaa, which should have been done earlier. The reason why Uusimaa is being isolated is that it would not produce the virus in other areas. This logic is amazing that the government does not restrict movement within Uusimaa. If a person who travels to Kuopio from Helsinki is a risk to the choir, why is Helsinki not a risk to other people in Helsinki? When there is a lot of the virus in a specific area, it is likely that a healthy person hanging out in that area
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u96	Mr President! The Finns of Peru have supported strict measures, and we were the first to present the Act on Preparedness and, among other things, the closure of schools, and it is good that things were moving forward. Mr President! Prime Minister Marin, you said that since January you have been on the move on this issue. On 24 January I asked a written question about the preparation for the corona, and I received an answer on February 17th. day. This reply stated, inter alia, that ‘on the basis of monitoring andanalysing the situation, there is a variety of communication between citizens and public authorities. “ I'm gonna stop here. What happened at the airports? Citizens and travelers have not known about quarantines. They've moved on and spread the virus. What about the government's communications? We have just heard yesterday that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has told us that the information has not passed. I don't think we've been prepared for this after all. The reply also stated that ‘material capacity has been developed’. Well, no matter what, we've now opened the reserve and millions of mouth protectors have moved forward. Indeed, no material readiness has been developed. It has ‘increasedits own management capacity andconcentrated contacts We sometimes feel that leadership has been lost. We didn't know if we were listening to THL or STM. ‘Confirmed contacts between authorities’ —re-view airport:What happens? Is that the reason for the STM that passengers who have come to Finland have not been informed that it is a two-week quarantine? Mr President! We believe that strict action should be taken, and it is good that the region of Uusimaa is now closed down. That is very important, although we all know that it will not be enough to prevent the virus from spreading. This virus is severe and challenging, and only when we have the vaccine invented will it be overcome. Very many Finns suffer from it. Is that 80%, which is the estimate, we do not know. But we know that it is fatal. It's for young people, it's for middle-aged people, it's for older people. It's a threat to all of us. No one is safe from this disease. But as long as we can brake, that is what we must do. Mr President! Mothers have been in touch. Most of us here are mothers and fathers, and we know the pain, for example, the mother of the garrison at the moment. They have asked that when the garrison is outside Uusimaa doing his service, can he return home on vacation? I would like you to answer this because I myself have not been able to answer the question of these mothers. Mr President! The challenging time is ahead. So what if the virus suddenly spreads elsewhere, despite the fact that we have boundaries? So, what do we do? Are we going to the point where borders are opened up, life continues as always, and each one of us suffers from this terrible illness in one way or another?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u97	Mr President! In this debate, it is constantly worth remembering that the fundamental right of life is now being protected: the right to life. First of all, it must be said that you have confidence to see how many Finns have taken this very seriously on the basis of simple instructions and recommendations. However, such trust in people is the cornerstone of a free society and reduces the need for obligations and coercive measures. So thank you to everyone who has reorganized their lives, relationships and work to respond to this emergency. At the same time, despite this responsibility, it has to be said that the recommendations and instructions alone have not been enough, and that is why these tough measures must be taken, above all, in order to ensure that the capacity for health care is sufficient to slow down the spread of this disease and to deal with it in the best possible way, with the lowest possible number of deaths, to be frank. This really does require both a restriction on people's mobility and an obligation on health care staff to work. Now, under Sections 118 and 95 of the Emergency Act, it is in this situation. These are based on Article 7(1) of the Constitution, on the obligation of the public authorities to safeguard everyone's right to life, and on the provisions of the Constitution which safeguard adequate health services for everyone and the promotion of the health of the general public. These issues, when discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs over the last few weeks, have been said that these are fundamental rights that are really so powerful that they give the basis, then, for limiting people's lives and activities in quite harsh ways. At the same time, it must be said that there are clearly limits to these rights and competences. Article 23 of the Constitution enable this to be done under exceptional circumstances, but also, on the other hand, require that only what is necessary and proportionate in order to safeguard these fundamental rights be done. In other words, while the right to life is a fundamental right, careful attention must be paid at all times to the fact that there is no accidental overdoing. This now requires careful balancing and care, not only at the head of the Government, but also here in Parliament and especially there in the Constitutional Committee, where it has been a pleasure to see that, despite the government's opposition limits, we are working together to find the best solutions. In my opinion, this also answers the question of why there is no restriction on people's lives even harder and earlier. It comes from the Constitution, it is the duty to look at the measures so that only what is necessary and justified is done, and when we talk about a pandemic, it is precisely the health experts who are being relied on. At the same time, there is a balance between two areas of expertise: on the one hand, the safeguarding of fundamental rights, i.e. legal expertise and, on the other hand, the medical expertise. We are now trying to reconcile these in the best possible way, I stress, regardless of the government-opposition limits. In this way, best solutions are sought to safeguard the lives of Finns. There are a few points which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already drawn attention to so far, particularly with regard to this obligation of employment, which was already discussed last week. In addition to Article 95, Articles 98 and 99 are laid down in the Act on Preparedness. The European Union is committed to ensuring the protection of workers' rights. Many have now been concerned about how to act, if the health care worker is a member of the risk group himself, whether he is asthmatic or elderly, or if the family member is a member of the risk group. All of these have been taken into account in the Emergency Act and all of these, of course, will be taken into account when considering who is required to work. In other words, there is also a real provision in the Emergency Act that the situation of health care staff is also taken into account. Of course, their right to life must also be protected in a proportionate way. The same applies now to this restriction on the movement of the new country. It is precisely this proportionality and necessity that has already been given serious attention in the past, and it has been pointed out that the arguments are sufficiently comprehensive. It was therefore a pleasure to have a very comprehensive and extensive memorandum from the Government of 17 pages, which carefully examined the basis on which these restrictions on Uusimaa have now been laid down and on which basis, on the other hand, some possibilities have been given to derogate from them. It is important, for example, that people continue to be able to care for their loved ones despite their provincial borders. It is important that at least the necessary work succeeds. I am sure that now that we are going to consider the implementing regulation for this Article 118 regulation, it is particularly important that we define with great care the precise limits to who is allowed to go, when to go and how to take decisions at the border of the province. This has already been covered in the explanatory memorandum, but these elements had not yet been recorded in this implementing regulation itself, so it is probably appropriate to adopt a more precise implementing regulation to ensure that this requirement of precision is met. All in all, I believe that the Council of State has responded well to the need for comprehensive arguments and consideration of fundamental and human rights, which was raised last week. In my opinion, this shows that the Finnish rule of law still works quite well under exceptional circumstances. I believe that this is a searing both for the Government and for this entire parliament. I hope that this spirit of strong cooperation will continue to move forward, because these efforts are tough, but at the same time they are necessary. It is only by setting such an example of the state that we can get ahead of this together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u98	Mr President! In order to slow down the interest rate epidemic, all measures which, based on the best available information, are considered effective and reasonable must be taken. Action must also be taken in a timely manner. The most important thing is the safety of Finns. The reason why we have to talk about such strong restrictions is that we must also ensure that the capacity for best intensive care is sufficient at the peak of the epidemic. At the same time, serious restrictions are being imposed because the government's previous strong recommendations have not been sufficiently followed up by everyone. The majority of Finns have accepted their responsibilities and acted accordingly. Unfortunately, not everyone has been so responsible and this has led to this situation. Mr President! We're in a situation you'd never wish you'd ever see. None of us could have imagined before the beginning of the part-session what kind of things we are going to decide in this Chamber. In these circumstances, many people are calling for tougher and tougher measures and means, but we must not forget the seriousness of what we are talking about when it comes to restricting the fundamental rights of everyone. For the Left Alliance, it is essential that, in exceptional circumstances, we stick firmly to the rule of law, the Constitution and democracy. Even if these exceptional circumstances were easy to slip, the cost of slipping would be too high for all of us. Freedom of movement, the right to move freely within the territory of the State, has been guaranteed by the core human rights and fundamental human rights treaties and our constitution. Under current exceptional circumstances, the Act of Preparedness allows temporary prohibitions or restrictions on movement in certain areas where this is necessary to prevent a serious risk to life or health. Only those powers which are necessary and proportionate for the protection of the population and for the protection of fundamental rights can be introduced under the Emergency Act. Powers may be exercised only if the situation is not manageable by the regular powers of the authorities. In general, restrictions on fundamental rights must be necessary and proportionate. Measures restricting fundamental rights must also be proven to be effective means of achieving their objective. For symbolic reasons, fundamental rights should not be restricted. When it comes to isolation of an entire province, there are also questions as to how restrictions on movement can be monitored so that they are genuinely effective. Effectiveness is also linked to the duration of actions. Temporary restrictions on movement would hardly be effective; on the other hand, the duration of restrictions must be limited to what is necessary. Mr President! The restrictions on freedom of movement affect the everyday lives of many of us and will certainly make the situation more serious for each of us. At the same time, it should also be noted that already in the fight against the corona epidemic, means have been put in place that are widely affecting fundamental and human rights and, in particular, the position of many of the most vulnerable people. Many Finns come to work in Uusimaa every day. Even though we must all, as far as possible, limit our mobility to what is necessary, it is essential to secure commuting and other necessary transport. The families with children where parents live on different sides of the county border are also considered. Mr President! Presenting mobility restrictions is not an easy matter. However, the criteria for imposing restrictions are heavy and rely on expert knowledge. The problem of interest rates is particularly acute in Uusimaa and its spread needs to be slowed down and the functioning of health care ensured as effectively as possible. Although the Government decree on the introduction of articles of the Emergency Act is at hand, the role of Parliament as the supreme state body must also be safeguarded under exceptional circumstances. In these times, officials of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and experts from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are working for the rule of law, which deserves our thanks. Its work must be valued and at peace. It is only after the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' assessment that we can say whether this regulation is fully acceptable to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u99	Mr President! Who would have believed in January when there was the first case of coronavirus in Finland and it was successfully dealt with so that we could see a few months from such a situation where: They're sequestering the Uusimaa. Trust — that is what we need now: confidence that everyone is doing their part, confidence that the authorities are doing their utmost, and confidence that decisions will be taken on the basis of the best possible information, while at the same time weighing up the limitation of fundamental rights in relation to their impact. It is extremely important that information is shared openly between different countries, but also between Finns. Transparency of information increases confidence that the measures now being taken are necessary and necessary. The activation of Section 118 of the Act on Preparedness is a very powerful act. The isolation of Uusimaa has given rise to understanding, but also to disappointment and anger. I have received particularly many messages from Neo-Americans who have already travelled outside Uusimaa to their cottages. Many say that they have taken special care and even taken food from here, they have not even stopped on the way to refuel. They don't do business anywhere. Food can be ordered directly into the car, carried or even to the cottage. Many of them now feel that it would be more risky to come home here than to stay in their cabin. I have also received messages from those who have traveled to the store or pharmacy to help their parents or other close friends at risk. They are now feverishly wondering how loved ones will cope if they have to travel back home. The isolation of Uusimaa is justified by the slowing down of the epidemic. However, there may be other illnesses, the need for health care services, so everyone is now advised to stay at home and return to their homes. It is important that Finns are told all the reasons behind the decisions. Is it not the case that the carrying capacity of smaller hospital districts is one of the reasons why they are asked to return home? More answers are also needed to the following questions: Who is responsible for people who are fully functional but live far away from services and there is no home transport service available? Who can the family contact so that they can return to their own homes? Many people who have lived in completely quarantined conditions so far now feel that it is unfair to restrict movement here, while, at the same time, those who have returned from abroad have not been able to quarantine more strictly. The Prime Minister admitted that a mistake has been made, and that is good. Everyone understands that mistakes also happen in dealing with such a crisis, but they do not understand it so easily if mistakes are not learned and things are not dealt with quickly. You can now guarantee that people will, in future, preferably be piloted on a plane and directed directly to quarantine? Questions have also been raised as to the reasons for: In addition to working, the border with Uusimaa should continue to be exceeded. You will be shut down, and not only will the police but also the garrisons come to control them. Does the government have an answer to a question that revolves in the minds of many, a reason enough to cross the border of the province? Mr President! Now that Uusimaa is isolated, it must be understood at the same time that within its border there must be at least as precise or even more precise than in the past in order to avoid any new close contact. The peak of the epidemic is still a long way off, so it is very important now to make every effort to avoid accelerating its spread, including here in Uusimaa. For many, the situation has lasted for weeks, and even in the best case scenario it will last for a long time until the summer — as I have interpreted from the opinions of the experts and the government. Uncertainty is the most difficult one, and that is why it would be great if we could at least give some assessment of how long this situation will last. To this end, I would like to raise a few points which I raised here earlier, but the ministers were not in the Chamber at the time: Unfortunately, there are messages from home care that the infection has already reached home care staff in Sipoo. There have been great delays in obtaining protective equipment, even if it is hoped that they would have been. Let us hope that this will be put right very soon. Another concern concerns the memory-diseased. How will they be taken care of if their mobility is free? Is it possible to impose some kind of restriction when they do not necessarily, as it were, maliciously violate these regulations and recommendations but simply, because of their health, are unable to comply with them?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u100	Mr President! Isolation of Uusimaa is certainly not an easy decision, but I am one of those parliamentarians who understand it, because we do not want a province in charge of Uusimaa that is in Lombardia in Italy. We do not want to be the province that is spreading the virus to other parts of Finland, but I do understand the people who are now outraged by this decision. Just as Mr Multala said earlier, we have a number of people who have already moved to their summer cottages and done it just the right way, have not made any contact along the way and have done everything according to the textbook, and now that spring is still a little earlier, they must have felt like a good solution in this situation to isolate themselves somewhere far away from the cottage. I am well aware that they are annoyed by this situation, especially when we are constantly reading in the newspapers about the way these tourists have come to Helsinki Airport from the very worst regions, Italy, Spain and so on, and they have not been given sufficient instructions on how to comply with this quarantine. And now that you look at the debate that different authorities have had, it seems that Finavia, STM, THL and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are playing this issue together and are not really able to decide whose responsibility it actually is. So I ask you, Prime Minister: whose responsibility is it, and are you really going to do so now that, when we still have about 40,000 tourists in the world, they will then receive proper instructions? I think I understand that the CEO of HUS has just this evening put forward an alternative to quarantine people coming from the world to Finland for 14 days in airport hotels, where they would have a direct visit to a place where there is clear guidance on how to act. In fact, they will be isolated from others. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, how you feel about this. Is this an option? Of course, we are a little late, and not a bit late, but there are still a lot of people coming from that world, and at least we have to act wisely with them now. Now this isolation of Uusimaa is being carried out until 19.4. In a sense, it seems logical that we should go one piece at a time and see how this seems, but on the other hand, it would seem logical to me that all the restrictions should be of the same length. That is what has been done in other countries. If I look at France or Spain, it has generally been done so that two weeks have passed with very great restrictions, there are curfews and so on, which are not restricted to the elderly or those in the risk group, but have affected everyone, in which case people have also felt that they are equal in the face of this serious illness and situation. Personally, I am afraid that when we gradually introduce these various restrictions — and understandably, because they are major restrictions and also have financial implications — we will simply move this situation forward. I would be prepared for much tougher restrictions so that we can bring down this epidemic, which has now come here and is coming. I am afraid that in this way we will only delay it further and the economic and other suffering will be even greater. I would ask you, Prime Minister, what do you think of this situation? Have we now done everything that is essential, or are there still going to be further restrictions, as has been done in other countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u101	I shall try to hold this debate now on this issue of freedom of movement and give speeches to the members of the Government a little later.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u102	Mr President! This is one of the most severe exceptional measures during Finland’s independence. The government proposes a strong restriction on the fundamental right of neo-Americans, on freedom of movement. The border with Uusimaa will be closed, mainly with the exception of the necessary commuting. I've had a lot of feedback from the Neo-Americans in the last few days. It reflects great concern for the future, for health and now also for freedom of movement. The province of Uusimaa is the centre of the corona virus epidemic in Finland. Over 60% of the known infections are here. According to the government, the virus has spread in several municipalities in Uusimaa — as you said yesterday, Minister Kiuru. The Corona virus epidemic is a threat to people's lives and health, and this is clear, and every Finn has the right to life guaranteed in the Constitution. Understandably, the government has taken major measures against this crisis to protect the right of people, the right of Finns to life. But the big question is why not until now and why with these very methods. The epidemic areas in Europe have long been known to the Finnish Government and the authorities. While, in connection with the Prime Minister's announcement here in Parliament, the government directed the Finns to wash their hands, a huge number of Finns vacationed around the world and Europe in the already known epidemic areas, getting infected — to return with them to their country of origin. After the government, in cooperation with the President of the Republic, had identified exceptional circumstances and the government had urged the Finns to return to their country of origin, the infected travellers were received at Helsinki Airport without any further precautions — even yesterday, I know, passengers have returned to Finland without even having received proper instructions — and many have moved away from the airport during these weeks by means of public transport. Well, as a result of this, the epidemic has spread, particularly here in Uusimaa and now, on the other hand, the freedom of movement of neo-Americans is to be restricted for the necessary reasons, we neo-Americans have a right to know, Mr Government, how is it possible that this happened, that people were able to move freely through the corona gate of the airport? Masses of travelers were released without any control, some even without any instructions regarding the epidemic. Well, this doesn't make any sense. It is not enough, Prime Minister, to say that there has been a mistake. Government, you must tell us why this mistake has happened and how it is now to be prevented from happening again. Mr Government, before the closure of the Uusimaa border, I hope that we will hear how the airport's corona port will be closed from tomorrow before the border with Uusimaa is closed. Mr President! The freedom of movement of Finns in the country can only be restricted for necessary reasons and can only be done in proportion to the objective pursued. It can only be used when the normal powers of the authorities are no longer sufficient to control the disease. That is what the Emergency Act says, and this is what the Constitutional Committee will next assess. When Uusimaa is to be caught and fundamental rights are to be restricted by the restrictions on the movement of the Act on Emergency Response, the people of Uusimaa and Finland deserve to hear all the arguments for this measure. Of course, the explanatory memorandum has now discussed these arguments extensively, and I would like to point out that any transparency in this area will also help to accept these restrictions. Understandably, the government has argued that in the provinces the capacity for intensive care is limited. An understandable and very significant risk, for example, is that a large number of Neo-Americans would go to Lapland for Easter leave — we know that there are very few of these intensive care facilities in Lapland, I understand nine at the moment. Yet, despite these arguments, many Finns feel that there is not enough information about this epidemic. Prime Minister, I have been asked exactly what the effects on the health and well-being of people are to be achieved, what is the government's honest assessment of the scale of this crisis and why the whole picture of the situation is not published in real time, for example in relation to Uusimaa. This would help people to understand why the border has to be closed for the whole of Uusimaa. It is said, with regard to spending limits, it would help people to know that it is not just a problem in the capital region but an epidemic that has spread to more municipalities. Then the second big question is what exactly the government is trying to achieve in the fight against the corona epidemic, i.e. what the government's overall strategy is. So now that the neo-Americans are isolated from the rest of Finland, the government argues that it is necessary and proportionate, but what the government wants to achieve may have remained unclear to the people. Prime Minister, you have commented in the past that the epidemic can no longer be prevented from spreading, and the government, according to its intention, has only sought to reduce this peak of epidemics. I would now like to ask whether this is still the real objective of the government, and I would now refer to Mr Varhila’s statement in the Helsingin Sanomat of today’s Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, in which he stated: ‘The question is: how do we deal with a herd of immunity in my population,that risk groups have been protected? “ Well, as we all know, in Great Britain, a much critical herd shelter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u103	Mr. Speaker! This so-called 'corona pandemic' has led to quite fierce and exceptional solutions throughout the world and in all countries. Perhaps one of the wildest ones seen so far is India’s decision to make a practical lockdown, close the country, put a curfew — more than a billion people there on the other side of the world under other circumstances. And, President, in Finland too, because of this corona virus, we have taken quite exceptional measures. It is probably no exaggeration to say that after the war in Lapland, almost 80 years, there have been no such restrictions on people's everyday lives and fundamental rights. One might even say that even before, even in wartime, these certain restrictions have not been so firmly implemented. In a public debate, it has been said that there has only been and wondered and thought about, [Sebastian Tynkyse’s interlude] This is, President, a very radical restriction on our freedom of movement, guaranteed by the Constitution, in accordance with Article 9 of the Constitution. However, I personally support this regulation, as I am sure it will be supported by the whole Parliament unanimously, and I dare to judge it in this way, because the legal good most protected by the Constitution and the most protected by our state and legal order is the right to life, the life and health of a person, and that is what is being protected here. President! We have a situation in this country that this corona virus has spread most of all in the capital region and in the whole region of Uusimaa. You can even say that Uusimaa is a virus centre in Finland in a certain way. There are infections not just here in Helsinki and Espoo. As has been well put here in previous good speeches, this very violent interference with fundamental human rights is intended to prevent this pandemic from spreading out of control throughout Finland. There is such a diabolical aspect of this disease that it takes very many of the sick to intensive care and those intensive care periods are very long. And as Mr Vestman has pointed out, for example, in his good speech, we have a limited capacity for a few hundred pieces of intensive care in this republic, and if this pandemic goes uncontrollably, we will end up in situations where we will have to make choices in those treatment places about who will be saved and who will not, and that is a terrible situation if such a situation as that in Italy and Spain were to happen in Finland. And the President-in-Office must do everything in his power to avoid having special care blocked so that we have to choose who is being treated and who is not being treated. Everyone needs to be treated in Finland, it is the fundamental thing about the morals of our society. President! There has now been much talk here in the debate on the introduction of this regulation, including earlier Question Time, about what is the strategy: whether we are talking about such a herd strategy, about building herd immunity, about slowing down or about repression. I would like to say here that the Finnish strategy is by no means to build up herd immunity and to allow the epidemic, the pandemic, to catch up with the entire population and then the strongest, the younger ones, and then die from it. It is certainly not a Finnish strategy and cannot be a Finnish strategy. But I say that now that it seems that there are such huge experts in epidemiology in the MPs today that I see it just like this, with this kind of bottom-up common sense,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u104	Mr President! The right to life is one of the most fundamental constitutional rights and human rights, if not the most fundamental. We now have to consider extreme and exceptional measures to protect this right and at the same time limit other fundamental freedoms of democratic society. This Government statement of reasons gives an epidemiological and medical picture of the situation and describes why this decision and proposal have been made and brought to Parliament's assessment. It is very important, as many others have pointed out in the past, that we have the best possible justification and the best possible assessment of the effectiveness of each measure. At the same time, we must accept that, in such a situation, we cannot have complete information. What is most important is that we have the best possible up-to-date information available and that it is open to evaluation, so that other experts, researchers, can also participate in this debate. The British Government's strategy changed radically after more than 200 researchers took a stand in an open letter on the British strategy of the time, which thought that this virus could fairly freely wipe the population. This has changed completely now, and obviously there are measures similar to the curfew in the UK, which means that everything turned very quickly. It is good that the situation picture has indeed been updated and found, among other things, that without protection from the population infection during the first wave of the epidemic, up to 80% of the population will fall ill, 15% will be serious and 5% critical. It is quite clear that such figures are such that our health system will not be able to cope with their treatment. In addition, new information has emerged on how serious an infection can be and how it can be life threatening for younger people. This government memorandum states that, contrary to what was thought at the beginning of the pandemic, corona infection is also very serious in some younger age groups, also causing some of the infected 30-69-year-old pneumonia that threatens life and health and requires intensive care. Similarly, it has been shown that this duration of intensive care is longer than estimated. There are a number of factors here that justify the need for restrictive measures. Then we must also ask, at the same time, when we talk about — still these days — protecting groups at risk, how realistic it is, because there are huge groups at risk in Finland. There are nearly 900,000 Finns over 70 years of age alone. In addition, there are many cancers, diabetics, and so on. In fact, we have a huge number of people who belong to high-risk groups and, according to many expert estimates, before long, even at high-risk groups, the virus will eventually end up with a high viral prevalence in the population. It may be the home care worker or child who visits his sick parent. Not everything can be stopped. And I would also like to ask when, according to new information, this is a dangerous disease for younger people, even though not as strongly as for parents: How, then, is the whole of Finland and Uusimaa now protecting the rest of the population from the progression of this disease? Now that this necessary measure restricting the travel of Uusimaa is likely to be taken, in what way Inside Uusimaa is slowing down the progression of the disease? What measures will be taken? Today, when I cycled here to work, people have fallen in the center, but there are still people who go around. What do we do about this situation if it is found that this disease continues to progress? Surely we do not want this new country to become a disease risk area where parents or younger people will be subjected to intensive care? In addition to this, we must ensure that Uusimaa — the people of Uusimaa, almost 1.7 million people — is not disadvantaged in terms of access to basic health care, so it is essential that, in good time, different treatment measures are balanced between the country's medical capacity. Since intensive care is difficult or impossible to transfer, it is necessary to plan in time how, for example, some cancer treatments can be transferred to another country if the situation is that in Uusimaa the progression of the disease is quite quick. But, above all, I would like to hear the assessment of how we can continue to identify the transmission chains in Uusimaa — or to return, hopefully, to the situation where we can identify the affected, now that we are increasing the testing capacity. How will it be increased enough, and what is now the exit strategy for the government to get out of this situation? It is the most important issue, or at least one of the most important. How many months can we spend in social isolation? Is the economy going to be okay with that? Does human health and health, despite all the precautions, stand up to it? Is it perhaps the best strategy to look more closely at the South Korean and Singapore models that have systematically started tracking the supply chains? This is the kind of answer that many people in New Zealand will think about, and many other Finns will think about. How can we improve the knowledge base on this picture of disease, and how can we prevent the spread of these transmission chains, knowing that younger people are also not protected from the serious consequences of this disease?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u105	Now, Mr Ovaska, and then the ministers will answer, let us see at first, with three minutes' speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u106	Mr President! This isn't gonna be easy. It is very difficult for us to find answers even to all these questions that have been raised here in the Chamber. Maybe the government does. But when you think — what has been followed in the media and read and tried to understand information from other parts of Europe and the rest of the world — there will always be more and more questions when you read them. This will also require a great deal of sacrifice, it is quite clear, as is the case with all the decisions that have been taken in this Chamber so far. Nor do we have any 100% certainty as to how this virus will eventually behave, including the WHO or others. Perhaps I regret the fact that many people seem to be already looking for the culprits, but at the time when we are looking for all the means to alleviate the spread of the disease and, above all, to prevent it from spreading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u109	Now Prime Minister Marin, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u110	Mr President! When I listen to some of these speeches in the Chamber, they give the impression that nothing has been done.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u113	Mr President! Thank you for your very good comments. They certainly tighten up the government's efforts, but, as the Prime Minister well says, there are already very tough, big measures to slow down this disease. The point is that if we do not do this, this disease will spread more quickly and our intensive care capacity will not last. That is why such restrictive measures are now being proposed. They are not easy to operate, they are not easy to do, the threshold is very high. As the Prime Minister rightly points out here, it may be that if this did not go through, how could curfews go through in such a situation? What is at stake is that these measures must be absolutely necessary, and everything else has been done before, so that we can start to restrict this kind of movement. And, of course, the very essence of this is that the police will contribute to this monitoring work. As I said before, the resources of the police are certainly known to everyone, they are not good, they are not sufficient. The police will also be forced to seek official assistance from the Defence Forces. The work will certainly survive, but it is good to remember that this work will also take police resources away from other activities, crime prevention, criminal investigation, alarm missions. That is why it is very important for people to follow these rules, guidelines, police orders and advice and not to defy them unnecessarily. This is a serious disease that must now be stopped together. This is why, because the resources are scarce, more have also been sought. The Ministry of the Interior has already made its own proposals for the first amending budget and has also made new proposals for the next amending budget for both the police and Raja. With regard to Raja, for example, it is clear that, when the representative asked what we were doing with other people, with our neighbours, with regard to the disease situation, that we were, of course, following that situation, cooperating with the authorities, with the politicians. I have just discussed Sweden with the colleague of the Minister of the Interior, and there, too, is a concrete day-to-day cooperation at the border. If border crossings with potential symptoms are detected, people are directed to the right authorities for treatment. And when this internal border control itself has been restored and the external border is closed, there border guards are actively doing that work. More than 90% of our border crossings have now left. The movement is much smaller and, above all, freight transport and the necessary commuting continue to work on this point. A lot of people asked why they couldn't stay at the cabins. I would like to point out here that, although I understand its hidden spirit and that is a good idea in itself, there is also such a great risk of accidents happening in that cottage, whatever it is, being the victims of crime, whatever it is. This means that the local system may be burdened for this reason and not just because of this interest rate. So this too is perhaps the reason why we would now like to invite people back to New Zealand at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u114	Mr President! We are dealing with a very violent proposal that is affecting fundamental rights, which is being made to protect an even more important value and a fundamental right, life. We are faced with a very heavy choice. The report of the weekend on how the corona virus in our country will be disrupted in the future has been such that I have had to present this very difficult measure to the government and the Prime Minister. The aim is to draw attention to the fact that the epidemic situation in Uusimaa is clearly so far ahead of the rest of the country that if the situation is allowed to continue this way, the virus will cross the borders of Uusimaa as a result of the natural movement of people and, finally, we will be in a situation where the epidemic in Uusimaa will then come to other regions at a rather rapid pace too quickly. That is why we are now facing a situation in Parliament where, in order to slow down and limit this epidemic, an action is proposed in which, in practice, travel from Uusimaa to other Finland and travel from the rest of Finland to Uusimaa is restricted. This is a restriction on the movement of the Act on Emergency Response to Section 118. We're at the bottom of the questions. However, in order to protect the spirit and health, the government has now decided to present to Parliament this difficult step to take. It is now in the hands of Parliament whether this action is necessary in this House. In my own speech, I have justified this in terms of publicity, precisely as an action that is necessary. It is necessary for us to limit the rate of transmission of the virus in human contact from New Zealand to an area where there is even less virus. The grounds are that the number of corona patients in Uusimaa is 75% of the total number of corona patients in Finland. And, in fact, it must also be said that there are practically 82 per cent of the Finns in intensive care in the HUS region. These figures draw us quiet and tell us that the aim is to secure the capacity of this country's social and health care services, the adequacy of intensive care for all those who need it, but ultimately also to protect the capacity and intensive care of other provinces. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u115	Thank you. — May I ask, when we have enough room in the Chamber to keep a clear safety distance while sitting, so that there will be no cases of illness.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u116	Mr President! Indeed, from the point of view of fundamental and human rights, we are in an exceptional historical situation. This has been repeated many times today, but it can still be repeated. As MPs, we should now look at the introduction regulation adopted last night by the Government to ban movement between Uusimaa and the rest of Finland and to implement the duty of health care personnel. Parliament must now weigh up the acceptability and necessity of the adoption regulations. Such an emergency that threatens the life of a nation is a threat to the explosive spread of a serious infectious disease. According to human rights experts, we are now going through the protective walls of fundamental rights with more powerful equipment. However, Parliament has already approved, in the context of the first regulations, derogations from the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution are being introduced. In this situation, the assessment of what is necessary to prevent the worst threats being posed by an individual Member of Parliament is very difficult to do. There is therefore no choice but to consult our best medical and healthcare experts closely and to rely on their assessment of the situation and on the best human rights and constitutional experts in our country, to rely on their assessments of an adequate process and the proportionality and justification of the measures. [Right :MrsWHO? ] Mr President! I trust that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will deal in sufficient depth with the government's proposal. It is essential from a historical point of view that we be able to document the weights on which the exceptions to fundamental and human rights are based. Key human rights conventions, such as the European Convention on Human Rights and the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the so-called KP Convention, will allow for a deviation from certain human rights during a general state of emergency threatening the life of a nation. This possibility has also served as a model for the provision of Article 23 of the Constitution on fundamental rights in exceptional circumstances. However, according to experts, these derogations require a separate alert to the Council of Europe or the UN. According to experts, already six Member States of the Council of Europe have announced a deviation from the obligations of the European Convention on Human Rights because of the corona virus. These are Latvia and Estonia and Armenia, Georgia, Moldova and Romania. Freedom of movement is guaranteed both by the KP Agreement and by the European Convention on Human Rights. However, according to Professor Scheinin and Rautiainen, the provisions are quite flexible and may allow restrictions on internal movement if they are necessary, proportionate and acceptable to the whole of human rights. What matters, then, is how exceptions are justified and whether it can be shown that they benefit more than they suffer. Schein and Rautiainen question this in their article. I hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will consider these arguments very carefully and in detail. In yesterday’s interview with Helsingin Sanomat, Professor of Justice History Jukka Kekkonen points out: ‘In exceptional circumstances, basic and human rights must be maintained even more indifferent to the case. One of the main lines of the political debate is to call for stricter measures and to criticise the government for its slowness. However, the effects of the Corona virus are so uncertain that no one can be sure of what an optimal policy would be like. Moreover, complex issues should not be oversimplified.”
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u117	Mr President! Freedom of movement is a fundamental right which is also enshrined in the Finnish Constitution. Its limitations are extremely exceptional and must not be lightly applied. The gravity of the situation is only reflected in the fact that similar restrictions on fundamental human rights were made during the last winter and further war. We have not faced a crisis of such a serious threat to human life in decades, possibly challenging the capacity of our health care system, such as an epidemic of interest. The Government’s proposal to introduce Section 118 of the Emergency Act and the restrictions on movement that it allows is a tough and last-minute measure. Its necessity must therefore be fully justified. It shall be assessed whether the extent of the restrictions is proportionate to the benefits derived from them: How does the measure help to reverse and prevent the health crisis and thus protect lives? Did the biggest traffic from Uusimaa take place for remote work and quarantine-like conditions in the cottages already? Is it to be expected that people will still move, knowing the seriousness of the situation better now in the light of new forecasts? Well, at least at Easter this would probably be the case, and apparently today many people have packed a cabin in their car. The Emergency Act states that ‘the powers may be exercised only by means which are necessary to achieve the purpose The need to introduce restrictions on the movement of Uusimaa is justified by the fundamental right, the right to life, the primacy and the possibility of securing it throughout Finland, as defined in the Constitution. Especially outside Uusimaa, intensive care capacity is more limited when the population is smaller. The proposal is also precise, both regionally and over time. It is defined as the territory of one province and is for a period of approximately three weeks up to 19 April. Decommissioning is possible more quickly if this is allowed by the infected situation. In addition, all other means of reducing infection have largely already been taken, so the decision on mobility restrictions has been taken on the basis of the principle of last resort. The decision on the movement restriction is based on a situational knowledge of coronavirus infections in the Uusimaa region and an assessment of the spread of the virus and the adequacy of health care capacity. There are confirmed infections in Uusimaa twice as much as in the rest of Finland. I would like to ask how to safeguard the health of neo-Americans so that the intensity of the disease here does not increase even further, for example. Can we increase the testing here and start tracking the disease chains? It is essential that the underlying information is shared transparently and that the measures are based on a knowledge-based analysis of the effectiveness of the measures, not an increase in the auction on the hardness of the restrictive measures. With open, up-to-date information sharing, we maintain public confidence, support for the work of the authorities, the credibility of political decision-making and also the effectiveness of opposition-government cooperation. Mr President! In addition to health effects, it is important to carry out an analysis of the wider impact of these restrictions on society. The demarcation of Uusimaa and the closure of restaurants are devastating decisions for the economy and individual entrepreneurs. Although the government and parliament have worked swiftly on amending budgets and economic support packages to help businesses, the fact is that the economy will plunge into a deep recession at both national and international level. The result is rising unemployment, bankruptcies, people's nausea. The costs of social and mental problems will continue to be borne for a long time, especially if we do not recognise the worst risks in time. And what level can we restore the quality of service in the event of an epidemic wave? None of us are clairvoyant, but it is important to think about the indicators and milestones that we can take out when we reach them. The correct duration and timing of actions are important for both human lives and the carrying capacity of the economy. We need a clear exit plan. I believe that the government has already begun to prepare for it. Mr President! The restriction of mobility naturally raises a lot of questions and practical challenges. The Government has recorded the following situations in which there is a derogation from the restriction: necessary official activity, the exercise of an employment, business or trust act, the fulfilment of a statutory obligation or the death of a next of kin, the exercise of the right of access to the child or any other personal reason of similar importance. I would also like to see a family member's hospice or family care, or a similar situation, when the well-being of another person depends on being able to move from Uusimaa or Uusimaa and to ensure that someone who needs help is provided with food or care. It is important that guidance is clear. Even if confidence in the police is strong, it is important that citizens are on an equal footing and do not depend on the individual civil servant's own judgment or arbitrage. Clear guidance is also a backrest for the authorities. I very much hope that the recommendations on restricting mobility would have been sufficient. Similarly, I hope that the necessary police resources will not have to be tied up in the monitoring of deployment. This is dependent on human behavior. Control shall be exercised in the event of non-compliance with movement restrictions. The right to life is the most important of fundamental rights. In order to defend this, other important rights are now being restricted. I hope people understand the gravity of the situation. Our own action will have a great deal to do with how we will get out of this crisis. I hope that the Constitutional Committee will have peace of work and I look forward to its report. The work done by the committee is an important part of the preparedness law process — thank you for that. Let's all shoulder our responsibilities and stay home.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u118	Mr President! In the Prime Minister’s reply, this type of style is attached to the ‘anti-ball’ Parliament’s legislative provisions,which have been made here. As has been said with regard to the closure of restaurants, the Constitutional Committee, of which I am not a member, will now be able to make that clear, will assess these regional issues in the same way that this timetable has now been postponed for a few days. This same problem was also encountered in the discussions of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, so that, in that respect, Parliament here is trying to move things forward at full speed. Mr President! After all, this is a strange situation if we are to talk specifically about a whole in this area. The history of Finland, the history of the world, is not familiar with this situation. We have had exceptional laws in previous decades, in centuries, but this has not been the case. In view of this, I would also like to say clearly here that, when you are seeking opposition-government consensus, this The closure of Uusimaa is justified, but at the same time all these other locks must also be taken care of. I am not going to go over the questions about this airport again, it has been paid for; let us make sure that tomorrow morning, when the next plane arrives, or because it is coming, then things will be in order. The Swedish ships and so on will also be taken care of. There things must now be in order to prevent such epidemics. As far as Uusimaa is concerned, as far as this regulation is concerned, there has now been an advance on this issue, which is probably happening at the moment. In any case, the blockade will come into effect, but people are currently leaving the Uusimaa area elsewhere. That's the way it is. Actually, there was one thing I didn't answer about those questions, and I was hoping... It is now a slightly smaller entity, but it is also of interest in Ostrobothnia to the extent that the Defence Forces have been asked to assist in resolving this entity – hopefully help can be found. So the garrisons are coming from outside Uusimaa to New Zealand. How, then, do these arrangements now go with the garrison? What is the starting point? The question was already asked here, but there was no answer as to how this is going to go, that when the garrison comes — for example, we have several hundred Swedish-speaking garrisonmen from Ostrobothnia — we will now assume that when we come here from vacation, we will be here until the professors have invented a vaccine for the corona virus, or how this is going. However, in my opinion, this is now such details that it would be good to have an answer to. And one thing it would be good to have an answer to is the vision and strategy on which this issue is addressed. These timetables for different restrictions are different in relation to others: the regulations of the Emergency Act until 13.4., restaurant regulations 31.5. Now it's the closure of Uusimaa until April 19th. This is where a well-informed citizen and a Member of Parliament are about to start falling apart when all dates are different. In other words, I would like to ask the answer that there is now a need to harmonise these at some point. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u119	Prime Minister Marin, answer to Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u120	Mr President! Unfortunately, Minister of Defence, Mr Kaikkonen, is not here to reply more specifically to questions relating to these conscripts, but I can say that the government had a long debate with regard to the conscripts. Of course, it is the case that the garrison, when performing the military service, is obliged to go to the garrison and, of course, it is possible to move to the garrison. But when it comes to holidays, that is, when the conscript goes on vacation, this cannot be considered as a valid reason for crossing the county border, like no other holiday or leisure-related travel. But the necessary business trip or action, such as transition to military service, certainly works in this direction. Minister of Defence Kaikkonen has also informed the Government that the Defence Forces have already made arrangements in relation to the corona virus and they will also do so after the ban on movement and restrictions on movement. I believe that The Defence Forces are able to organise this whole in such a way that it is not unreasonable for anyone. We're talking about a three-week period, this one's valid until April 19th. This is, in the view of the government, a necessary measure that this three-week period should be, and here, of course, we rely on our health authorities' assessment of this course. We do not know everything yet, but this is an estimate that health authorities currently have, and three weeks is the period. We have no grounds for further restraint at the moment, because this is linked to this necessity and to the requirement of proportionality and to the restriction of movement is so hard that it can only be imposed for as short a time as possible and necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u121	Ärade talman, Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Marin for his reply to the military vacations. They have become a few questions here in the course of the day.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u122	Mr President! I would like to start by saying that leisure dwellers, summer dwellers, cottage dwellers are vital to many municipalities. They liven up many municipalities and guarantee and have guaranteed us better services, services that would not exist in these municipalities without leisure residents.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u127	Thank you. — Prime Minister Marin and, if necessary, Minister Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u128	Mr President! After all, the government cannot decide on the isolation of Uusimaa alone. It gives Parliament a regulation, and Parliament — especially its Constitutional Committee, but the whole Parliament — assesses,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u131	Congressman Heinonen, do you have an answer?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u132	Mr President! The situation is so serious that I do not even expect a peck from the President in this Chamber, nor from others, but this really is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u134	I take this question and your answer completely seriously. If such an article is, as the Prime Minister called for, it is relevant to the solution to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u135	Mr President! The closure of the borders of Uusimaa is a drastic measure, and it should be carefully assessed in terms of fundamental human rights, and these will certainly be considered by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. At the same time as such a drastic measure is being taken, we must consider whether other measures have been taken in the region, whether they have been used, and I think that is the important thing that is at stake here against the neo-American sense of justice: the fact that passengers can come here through an airport or even through ports from abroad. There are still travelers coming from Spain, for example, who can come to New Zealand, to continue this by any means of transport. They're getting a manual on their hands, but what difference does it make? Of course, some may be enlightened citizens and act accordingly, but quite a few do not, and there are also those who are ill, and they are then spreading the disease elsewhere and elsewhere in Finland. I fully agree with the President and CEO of HUS, Juha Tuominen, that these passengers should be placed in quarantine, controlled, clear, i.e. prescribed, not recommended, quarantine — this is now confusing these two things, i.e. such a binding quarantine is different from the recommended quarantine. So I would ask: are measures, the right measures, now planned to ensure that these people from abroad are quarantined? At the same time, I would also like to ask about this matter of workers travelling across the Uusimaa border if it is necessary work: what is the necessary work, how is it defined? So now you can shuttle from Turku, Tampere, Oulu — perhaps not from Oulu, but still — to Uusimaa every day for work, because it is not defined, which is the necessary job. This, too, raises the question of why some people can then move in this way, but some are then restricted. It is not clearly defined. Yes, then, people generally understand drastic measures, if they are fair and there are clear reasons for them, but if it leaks, then confidence will start to crumble. Well, one thing many people are probably thinking about now in Uusimaa, a high-risk person, if you are part of the risk group yourself — whether you are elderly or have underlying diseases, you may have cancer treatments going on or some medications that lower your immune system — is how you can cope now, as the risks increase in Uusimaa as the cases of infection increase. It would also be important for them to be informed of the way in which their concerns are answered, the way in which it is ensured that those persons at risk are actually protected, for example, when they visit the clinics, for example, to receive cancer treatment or have to go to the hospital because of it, or when children visit or are in treatment at the Children’s Hospital. How can we be confident that they will not be infected from that journey? How to instruct health care personnel testing? Shall we test for asymptomatics as well? Personally, I would see that testing asymptomatic health care personnel in the departments or tasks they deal with such high-risk groups would be justified, and this would also save the cost for society, when such very difficult situations could then be prevented. Then I would like to ask you a few more questions about the fact that there have now been rapid migration notifications from one place to another: is there any limitation on this matter, and can people still move from one place to another? [Central :How many of them have come? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u136	The situation is that both Minister Ohio and Minister Marin have been on the move very early this morning and the day is very advanced, so that I think it is humanly reasonable to give them speeches at this stage and then let them rest that they will be able to make it tomorrow. I can now give individual questions here for a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u137	Mr President! Now that it is expected of the Members of Parliament that we are going to come forward with proposals for a statute, I would like to ask you, Prime Minister: are you considering the urgent provision of Article 7 of the Emergency Act? That would not have been the case if it had been taken as an urgent decision. Have you gone through that reflection? Has there been a review of the provisions of Section 118, the restriction of movement clause, that they could be used here, to restrict the movement of people? Has that possibility been explored? But now, primarily, this section 7, the urgency: why was this not done as a matter of urgency so that it could have been done more quickly than during several days’ waiting time, which has now been seen as a plentiful movement away from New Zealand?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u138	The answers then all at once.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u139	Mr President! I ask the same question: Section 7 of the Emergency Act. After all, it provides for the possibility of this urgent procedure, which states that ‘if the procedure laid down in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Sections 6 is not necessary toensure a significant improvement in the achievement of the purpose of the law, the Council of State Regulation may provide that a In other words, the introduction regulation can be introduced immediately, and this possibility has already been used by the government in the past for medicines and supplies. So, the same question: are you considering using this section to prevent this cottage refugee? I would also like to point out to the Government, Mr President, that we have asked the questions that are well-founded here, that is part of this Parliament. For us, for our Members of the European Parliament, many people are now turning to us and asking these questions, so that it is quite legitimate to ask, that it does not call into question anything at all — to ask for answers, as it should be. In exceptional circumstances, government and public authorities will focus on:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u140	Mr President! Prime Minister! We really do not ask questions because we want to be difficult. We therefore ask that we be able to answer the questions that concern people's minds, and at the same time we want to highlight all the risks and, on the other hand, the solutions that have come to our minds. I hope that they will be taken seriously and not so that we want to be bullied here. We want to be part of the solution, not part of the problem, and I therefore hope that in this respect we will also respect the fact that Members of Parliament have the opportunity, and also the duty, to ask these questions here in the Chamber. I would therefore like to thank Minister Ohio for your clear response to the reason why people are now being asked to return to their homes. One more question. Yesterday, I understand, from the Ministry of the Interior, it was said that the cottages inside Uusimaa are fine, so it would be okay to go to a cottage in the archipelago, for example. Now I have just read that the Coast Guard has urged people to stay away from the waters and especially from the archipelago, because they may not be able to pick up quickly. Which is the right line of action?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u141	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank our courageous government and, above all, our courageous Prime Minister, Mr Marin, for strongly urging the citizens that, if you are there at the cottages, you should leave the cottages and return to your home. That's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u143	Mr President! Prime Minister, here Mr Sankelo asked if these different dates could be harmonised, and in my opinion we should base the dates of all the measures on the data examined — yes, the Prime Minister replied — that is to say, on expert information, which tells us how long those measures will be effective. Do not go into what is easy or simple or good to remember. I hope that we will also have the opportunity to dismantle them and put an end to them earlier if there is such a possibility in favour of this infectious disease situation. And once again, for the sake of equality between citizens, I would like to ask that what means do we have here for neo-American citizens when we secure the rest of the country by restricting mobility from here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u144	Mr President! It is important that the cooperation between Parliament and the Government is smooth. Finally, I would also like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs wanted this to be possible as soon as possible. And now I understand that here, too, Mr Koskinen, a long-standing Member of Parliament, has stressed that this law and regulation could possibly be put into effect for the weekend, so I would like to ask whether all the necessary measures will also be taken at the head of the government, so that perhaps this law and regulation can be put into effect for the weekend, so that the restaurants can be closed down. I would also like to ask, like Mr Hopsu, what measures there will be following the isolation of this probably necessary Uusimaa in Uusimaa in order to protect the lives of people in Uusimaa, as in the rest of Finland. Is there any testing coming? Is there going to be a trailing of transmission chains?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u145	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank all three ministers very much. It's midnight in just a minute, and you're still here. You're giving this conversation a great deal of credit. Secondly, I would like to say on this issue of cottage refugees, the hidden Pirtti issue, on which there are now quite correct arguments, that the same debate has taken place in Norway. Norway is one of the few countries which have made considerable progress with the same restrictive measures as Finland and where the Norwegian THL, this public health authority, FHI, has seriously questioned the effectiveness of this ban on cottages in terms of the spread of the epidemic and Norway has reached a different solution with regard to this ban on cottages. I personally would see what Mr Heinonen has said here as a problem. We're leaving right now, and it might be that we're leaving the disease zone. But more than that, people who have been there for a long time, who are clearly healthy, would be invited to come, not now, but at that point, if there are symptoms of the disease or any other situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u146	Mr President! I'd have to ask the ministers a question like this, that now that The Uusimaa will be closed but, most likely, those regulations will not necessarily be believed, what will you do after you discover that the border is still moving as before. Now we are talking about the fact that this is only three weeks in force. So, basically, with this procedure, what has now been done, the three weeks are thinking about what we are going to do with it, when the time has already passed. So is there really some sort of thing in mind about what to do at that point if you find that traffic hasn't stopped there at the border? At least I have never heard of it, except that perhaps at some point the police will start to fine, but, as you know, three weeks have passed before any fines have been imposed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u147	Mr President! We must always bear in mind what the government has just emphasised on many occasions: in exceptional circumstances, the authorities can be entitled to exercise powers that are proportionate and necessary. It is always worth remembering in this debate. When they are used, they hit every person’s livelihood, fundamental rights, human rights, and so forth. That's why I'd like to ask the government: How do you assess whether there is already a situation where further restrictive measures are coming? And how do we constantly look at how this is monitored?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u148	Thank you. — And now, starting with the Prime Minister, answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u149	Mr President! I will try to answer these questions here. First of all, this question about the restaurant. We really did have the situation that there were no clauses in our legislation that would have allowed us to close restaurants, diners, cafes, nightclubs in this country, and that was why we had to prepare the government proposal very quickly and bring it to Parliament. And after the discussion of the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee, I believe that the government has now been called upon to adopt a regulation on the way in which this restriction will enter into force regionally and over time. My view is also that this regulation should be passed on to Parliament for an ex post check, i.e. Parliament will then assess this for its part. We have started — and this information came through last night that this Parliament has gone through — to prepare the regulation immediately this morning and, of course, also to carry out the studies required by Parliament, but I do not think we will be able to get those regulations here this week and deal with them here. That is why I have now made a strong appeal to entrepreneurs in this sector to shut their doors on their own, so that we do not see a weekend where, for example, nightclubs or bars are open and people there are very freely in contact with each other. So that's why I made this petition. But I dare not promise that this whole package in Parliament will still be able to be dealt with this week. As soon as we have been asked to do so, we will of course deliver to Parliament all the things Parliament requires of the government. The second question came about this choice of place of residence, the change of place of residence. In Finnish legislation, a Finnish person, a resident of Finland, has the right to choose his own municipality of residence. And we have not restricted this right. I don't even know if there's a chance of that under the Emergency Act. People in Finland have the right to choose their own municipality of residence, and so it is. To travel. After all, we have closed our external and internal borders. The exception is the natural working area of the North and West border, where therefore necessary commuting across the border is permitted. But there, too, not just any movement is allowed, but a necessary business trip is allowed. In other words, we have Finnish borders closed, we do not have passengers from abroad through cruisers or even aircraft. But of course Finnish citizens have the right to come to Finland. We cannot prevent this and, of course, we do not want to prevent it. Finns have the right to come to Finland. Freight traffic will also be secured during this period. It is important that goods and foodstuffs, medicines, all this, move. That is why freight and freight transport, of course, are also allowed when Finland's borders on passenger and passenger transport are otherwise closed. The question was then asked about the urgent provision of section 118. What we are talking about here is such a strong restriction of fundamental rights, such a strong restriction of fundamental rights — one of the strongest, strongest clauses in the Emergency Act, which restricts fundamental rights — that I would not dare to do so. I would not dare to adopt this paragraph until Parliament and its Committee on Constitutional Affairs has assessed this whole. A timetable was then asked for these restrictions. After all, we now have different timetables, and these earlier deployment regulations are up to 13 April. In this limitation of mobility from Uusimaa to the rest of Finland, the timetable is up to 19.4. And then we have closures for events and also for restaurants until 31 May. This restriction on mobility is three weeks and the assessment is that we would not be able to achieve this longer restriction on mobility in this country, because we can only do what is necessary and proportionate in accordance with our legislation. It is estimated that this three weeks is necessary. After that, it is possible — but it is not enough for us to think that it is possible that this should continue, but that we can only set what is necessary, and that is the date of 19 April. I can say that, and I have already said before that we are likely to have to extend these regulations on the introduction of these regulations which have been introduced into Parliament until 13 April. We have to bring these new deployment regulations to Parliament two weeks before this time closes, so by Monday next week at the latest we have to bring the new deployment regulations to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u150	Thank you. — Then Minister Ohio, if you have to complete it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u151	Mr President! Thank you for your views. I really appreciate the fact that the opposition is also really bringing its own ideas. We will not survive this virus as a government or as an opposition, we will get through it together as a Finland, for sure. Hard action has been required, but health experts, scientists we have listened to about THL, we have listened to about STM, have said that such means are on the list that this government should implement. Among other things, there are the closing of restaurants and then this isolation of Uusimaa for a certain period of time. We ourselves do not find these means as politicians — I hope that from now on politicians will always listen to the experts and, on the basis of their knowledge, make decisions. Each of these actions really builds on the debate we have with experts. Who, then, is allowed to move? As an example of border control, border guards have made their own instructions on the basis of government decisions, which every border guard will then have in his hand when he checks at the border to see who gets across. In the same way, the police, in their own operational activities, will then apply the pen print of our legislators, and the main features of this are, of course, already written in that regulation. What is central now is to say that all the work that can be done from elsewhere should be done from there and should remain at home in all situations where it is possible. Above all, it is precisely this that leisure tourism at this point can now be excluded. Other, necessary, may be possible. It is true that no one is protected from this disease. You might think that I'm going to the cabin by myself now, and that's not the problem. But, as I said earlier — perhaps even Mr Heinos, if you were not there then, this observation as to why there should not be hidden shakes in the cottages — may be that if accidents, crimes occur there will also be a local burden on that system, and that public contribution would be needed at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u154	Thank you. — Let us now move on to the list of speakers. The ministers now have the opportunity to leave Ohio and Marin and Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u155	Mr President! I think that there have been good and good speeches in Parliament about what can be done in the future. For my part, I also took the time to ask how the Chancellor of Justice would now advise on these open questions. It is good to note that we are in a difficult situation with regard to the airport because it sees how the Government's policies are taken into account in practice. Yes, both the authorities and the people themselves must take note of these recommendations and the Government's policies, and this has not been done in all respects. It has been clearly instructed by the THL that when people arrive in Finland, they commit themselves to quarantine-like conditions for two weeks, so-called self-privileged quarantine. On the advice of the colleague minister, when the borders closed, the border authorities have distributed this guidance to each cross-border hand. Yet many Finns feel that they have not actually been instructed to quarantine on their own. I have not myself been at the border to supervise this activity, but I suspect that the Finnish border guard will act in accordance with the instructions of the Government and that this order for quarantine has been issued to every Finnish citizen. With a heavy mind, it is up to each of us to take these provisions seriously or to overlook them a little. Now we are in a situation where people have used public transport. That is not possible if we want to insist that we act on these common policies designed to protect our health and ultimately each other's lives. The situation is now that, as I said, measures have been taken. Between the various responsible ministers, this wheel has now been put in place, but I have also wanted to ensure certain things from the Chancellor of Justice. The authorities and the Act on communicable diseases may therefore order the quarantine of symptomatic people and their loved ones who have been exposed. But if Parliament wants to take a stricter line on this, then of course it will require changes again. This is not possible under current legislation. We have assumed that these policies will be taken seriously and, as a result, everyone commits that when they arrive, they will also be committed to these common policies. More specifically, we all need to ensure that these common policies are respected and adhered to. Once again, we have instructed the authorities to ensure that people commit themselves to this. Ultimately, it is up to us, as a nation, to believe that these common policies are being followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u156	Thank you. — And the ministers mentioned just now, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u157	Mr President! This is where Mr Kiuru just said extremely well what the problem is: the people do not follow these guidelines as they should. Ministers Ohio and Marin left, but it was basically a little bit of the idea of what... In fact, I did not get the answer to my question: is there any intention of doing something if the people at the Uusimaa border do not disappear from moving across the border? This is a bit of a broken example, but somehow it feels like this whole thing is going to be like a foreign government attacking us here and shooting at us and we're going to get together because we don't have a law here on the basis of which we can shoot back. The problem is there, and now I'm afraid that now that we don't think and do that job in advance, we'll find in a week's time that movement hasn't gone away. Now it disappears — as the representative said there, there have been some missing people in Lapland, but that's because when the bars are closed now, they have to come home now, because it's not so nice to party there anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u160	Mr President! We have been thanking the government all evening, and it is absolutely necessary to thank the government for both determined and timely action as far as possible. These instruments, which have been put in place, are also exceptionally large, and the objective is also very clear as to what the government is seeking: to preserve life. I think it is unnecessary to criticise the government. This has certainly been done to enable us to do what can be done under these conditions. The aim is to prevent and suppress the spread of this devious virus and, of course, the right thing is to try to isolate the elderly and other risk groups from this disease, and it requires these restrictions on movement, it requires these closures of restaurants, it also requires that we ensure the capacity of its intensive care and the capacity of health care throughout Finland if this crisis is to expand — and when the crisis is forced to expand, we are in this situation. The fact that we have this hidden stimulant system created, that is, that people have gone to their own familiar summer places — not to any mass meetings, but specifically to isolate themselves, and that is what the elderly are doing to a very large extent, because for them it is the easiest, in a way the most natural, to do — has been exactly what they wanted to do under conditions such as living quarantine, in which they themselves have acted in that direction. And what is the only concern here is that they would now be required to come to the worst disease area as healthy people, as elderly people. We are now exposing potentially very difficult people who are most vulnerable to this, and that is the only wish I have — that when we call on these cottage refugees to come home, it would be with the hint that, if you have any symptoms of the disease, if you have any other diseases, other problems, then you will be relying on the health care system of the municipality of residence, not on the cottage community. And most people — the majority, 95% — from neo - country cottages are four hours away from Helsinki. They are not there in Lapland but in Central Finland and Southern Finland, the majority, and the majority of these possible symptoms of the disease, such that they will be able to return to Uusimaa. So, in this respect, we would do this sensible hidden policy: be isolated, just as we have been told, but then you will come into the health system here in your own region if that crisis comes on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u161	Mr President! It is no longer an opportunity to thank the ministers when they have already left, but I would like to thank them for giving us answers to many questions, and I hope — when I saw that the ministers wrote down these questions here — there are still some clarifications to be made to these few, such as whether or not the cottages inside Uusimaa are now desirable. It is very important information when many now plan to go to the archipelago for Easter, for example. Mr President! The situation is very challenging, and there is certainly no way to resolve it. There are only good attempts to base the measures on the best possible information, and of course we believe and hope that the Finnish Government will do so now in this situation. However, it is quite clear that, at the very beginning, our authorities did not exactly have the same picture of the situation as international operators, for example, who had followed this outbreak from the beginning. However, it is a good thing that once it has been discovered that the original picture of the situation is not necessarily the right one, it can be changed in the middle of the journey and then, as it were, make a change of direction in what measures are being proposed to politicians to decide. However, now that we are following this epidemic, it is very good to remember that the tested numbers of diseases that we get, or the cases that we get every day, are just like a peek into the reality where we actually go. Last week, as I recall, THL estimates that the actual infections are about 30 to 40 times, and now, when tests had to be reduced at some point, they are even much larger than this, i.e. up to 50 times higher than those verified cases. That is why I would have liked us to have received an answer here — I no longer remember the representative who asked — on how to combine this data. For example: After all, the bee has released and opened its own data — the doubts they have tested and also the doubts, the strong doubts about symptoms, about coronavirus infections — about how the epidemic is progressing. In order for all of us decision-makers, but also the government, to have an up-to-date picture, it would be valuable for these private and public data to be combined into a whole from which we can determine how the epidemic in Uusimaa and then elsewhere in Finland is progressing. Mr President, a few words about the isolation of Uusimaa. In this regard, the Prime Minister stated that he would not have dared to do this regulation on deployment as a matter of urgency. It is understandable: it is a very powerful measure to make such restrictions on movement. On the other hand, if you want it to function exactly according to its purpose... I myself asked myself earlier whether it would have been possible to do this as a matter of urgency when there were rumours that Uusimaa might be isolated at some point, and then I received the answer that it would be the very way in which this might be sensible and worth doing so. But surely the government here has listened to the legal scholars and reached such a conclusion, and now, of course, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is assessing whether there is sufficient justification for this adoption regulation. However, what is always good to remember, as Mrs Holopainen said here, among other things, is that it is up to Parliament to ensure that the proposals brought by the government also meet the constitutional requirements. Now, for example, this proposal to close restaurants did not fully do so, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy therefore called for a supplementary regulation to be introduced. Let us now hope that the ministry will act as quickly as possible so that Parliament can have its regulation reviewed then and the restaurants closed as quickly as possible. However, I think it is desirable that we should always remember that, even in these times of crisis, Parliament must also play its most important role and, in particular, to ensure that the Constitution is respected even when new laws are adopted to prevent it from progressing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u162	Mr President! I too would like to thank the ministers who have been involved in this debate for the answers we have received. Not all the questions were answered in this debate, but perhaps later. Representatives Hopsu and Holopainen rightly pointed out that now that Uusimaa is being isolated, HUS and the Uusimaa region must not now be left to their own devices with this epidemic and the disease and epidemic, as it were, free to move around. I was pleased to hear the Prime Minister say that this repression can be applied, if at all possible, and as I said earlier, Nordic Norway has changed its strategy this week and adopted this repressive strategy, and it has already been successfully applied by South Korea and Singapore, among others. As has been pointed out in previous speeches, testing is the key to this repressive strategy. — There is therefore no need to be an epidemiologist, Mr Ovaska, to understand that there are differences in the strategies of different countries and in the policies recommended by different experts. It's enough to be able to read so that these differences can be seen. — Indeed, testing has been at the heart of this repressive strategy in the countries in which it has been applied, large-scale, aggressive testing, which has sought to resolve these transmission chains to the very last. I myself would like to see more testing being done in Uusimaa, and now there are critical moments. I would like to point out from my own municipality that today there has been news of a case in which our Sipoo home care worker has been diagnosed with infection and has had time, according to public information, to expose a dozen home care workers and, for these other workers, the test results are currently awaited. In order to avoid such cases, the testing of critical health care personnel is absolutely essential. In addition to the epidemic that is now taking place here in Uusimaa, this testing of antibodies must at some point also be put in place and, therefore, identified by those who may have been symptomatically infected with this virus. I myself at least think and understand that such information is also relevant to the stage at which, for example, these restrictions on movement can begin to be dismantled. It is not possible to create such a comprehensive picture of the situation without extensive testing, and I personally feel that I have not received a reasoned answer to what is currently the bottleneck in this test, which is why it cannot be increased capacity. I am grateful that the government decided last week to increase capacity to that 2300 tests a day, but this is still going to leave us behind in relation to the population of these most aggressive testing countries. That is to say, I will remain in favour of urgent action by the government, particularly with regard to the country that is now being isolated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u163	The debate is closed. - I'm sorry, there's more here. — Mr Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u164	Mr President! Thank you. I was startled. — I would like to thank the government for the fact that it has now been decided to implement this necessary but very tough restriction measure, namely the isolation of Uusimaa. And just as our Prime Minister, Sanna Marin, has said, for my own small part, I would now like to appeal to the people to come home from the cottages, whether they are their own or rented cottages. Simply in those provinces, even in my homeland of Lapland, there are probably tens of thousands of people today who have not been included in the county health care system. It is extremely important that they now return to their homes quickly and keep this situation under control in this way. One of the reasons why this severe restriction must have taken place is that people have not followed these recommendations. And in this respect, I must say that I am disappointed by the actions of so many citizens. It would be extremely much easier if these government recommendations were followed, so that such tough measures would not have to be taken. Today, when I have listened to the debate, I have been somewhat surprised that certain opposition politicians have called on the government to take action that is not in line with our constitution or our preparedness law. I would like to say to all these people that there is a good reason for us to have locks before us that this country does not end up in sovereignty or totalitarianism. I would like to thank the government for having acted in accordance with the rule of law and the principles of parliamentarianism in all the actions, in all the restrictive measures, — thank you, that is what must be done. In part, I am also saddened by the debate in this Chamber which has, among other things, now called for a right of leave for the garrison here in Uusimaa. Personally, I do not see that it makes any sense, even though the hard decision is, of course, that three weeks will have to be spent outside the country of origin. On the other hand, it is good to remember that these garrisons are being trained in that extreme emergency of war. There is no point in them returning here, where there is the worst epidemic area, and then going back to the garrison, where they will then infect possibly fellow servants who are going away on holiday and then continue to infect it. At the same time, I am saddened that both the opposition and now the government have called for the right of elderly people and pensioners to be free on holiday and at cottages and to be isolated. No, this is definitely the wrong strategy. To deal with this crisis requires sacrifice from all of us. I very much understand the concern of our New Zealand politicians at the moment, and I can assure you that the rest of the country — all the provinces — is now standing behind you and the Centre of Finland is giving all its support to the fact that: The new land is not left alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u165	Mr President! Unfortunately, in the past, there was no opportunity to speak at the point where the Prime Minister was present, but if he were, I would have liked to say to him that we should not go and distort what Parliament is saying here. Prime Minister Sanna Marin spoke about how we have tried to give a picture that would not be done, and that is simply not true. These actions, which the government has been doing — closing the borders of the country, limited the number of people that can meet together at once, now is this isolation of Uusimaa — are all shockingly harsh measures. What has been our criticism has been that they should have been made earlier, and that is all that is at stake. I hope that this message will go forward to the government and, in particular, to the Prime Minister. And this is a narrative, and this is a straw man, we don't have to run into this again. I also hope that these few issues can then be brought to the government through Minister Haatainen, for example, so that we can be informed in the coming days. I'm sure you've had a plan where the province is identified as critical for the corona virus. We have now come to the conclusion that this is where Uusimaa has been defined. What are these criteria? Is it a numerical value, for example, of how many infections there are, or is it a ratio compared to other regions? In the background here is the idea that it would be good for us to know openly what criteria are now to be used for these closure measures, how quickly they are to be expected ahead and what is possibly the next province, for which this kind of situation may end up, and what is the criterion, when will it be reached. For example, we have a situation where we have 39 confirmed infections in North Ostrobothnia and we have another province next to it, A Kainuu with zero infections. How much must this imbalance increase in order to see that isolation measures are necessary to prevent this virus from spreading further? Then on this urgency of isolation: I agree with what Mr Laakso said earlier, for example, very cleverly, that, unfortunately, when there is an emergency, we cannot go to the meeting, if there is an attack on us, to say that what we should do now, but then we must start to respond and quickly. And I can assure you that, as we have seen with regard to Parliament, if the government were to decide to go ahead urgently, for example, with these isolations, and if afterwards the Constitutional Committee were to propose this dismantling, for example, it would certainly not be a big deal for the government, because the only message that the WHO has been trying to send out is that do, do, move forward faster, so that the protection measures are at a sufficient level to be at the level recommended by the WHO. So, in this respect, when we move forward with these restrictive measures, the government can have full confidence in Parliament, and it is precisely what we are doing, namely protecting, that we should prefer to do this as a matter of urgency. Then let's see how these sections have gone. They can always be withdrawn as necessary. We went into this crisis, in fact, in a complete united front, in agreement and with confidence that the government will provide us with sufficient information so that we can rely fully on the government to deal with this crisis and support all the measures that the government is doing. Unfortunately, however, along the way, we are beginning to see that the measures have not necessarily been timely, that we have not been adequately informed. For example, sayings such as what the government has said on several occasions that ‘we are prepared from the platform’, ‘we have followed the platform’sresulting crisis and have taken measures’... Today, for example, during the oral Question Time, we heard that no more of these breathing machines have been ordered — at the moment we are just trying to find out what to do. Or it was, for example, that in Maikkari’s news just recently, a few hours ago, there was a story that these passengers from Spain and elsewhere were now wondering if a quarantine hotel would be set up. Which means these procedures will be delayed. If these are not done in due time, if we do not get enough information, then this will start to crack. I'm hoping the government will pull itself together now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u166	Mr President! I just want to say to the end that the government must act in accordance with the Constitution, whether it becomes a parliament or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u167	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee, to which the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion by 11 a.m. on Friday 27 March 2020 at the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u168	Mr President! The regulation of the obligation of health care staff to work is something that has, of course, given much thought to people who have been trained in the health care sector in recent times. In this exceptional situation, however, it is understood that, in order to ensure that our healthcare staff are sufficient, it is absolutely necessary to adopt this regulation. However, in the context of the regulation, it is particularly important that the regulation on the obligation to work is as clear as possible so that there are no problems of interpretation in the interpretation of the regulation in this already difficult situation. I would now like to raise a few important points which should be taken into account either in the regulation itself or in the Ministry's guidance to employers in the future. In this exceptional situation, the status and right of those who are required to work must be ensured. In-depth education is essential, as well as other measures to ensure safety at work. It should be stressed that the introduction of an obligation of employment is absolutely only the last means of ensuring an adequate workforce. It should be emphasised that agreement between the employer and the worker should be made before the possibilities brought about by the regulation are applied. The Regulation should clearly state which target groups should be affected by the obligation to work. Does it concern, for example, a health professional who works in another field or in other health services, for example, in organisational positions or as a representative of a parliament? We also have a very large number of health professionals here as parliamentarians. What, then, is meant by the ‘short-term’ sector of the regulation? Is it one year, three years, five years or something else? What about pensioners? For example, if you have been retired for five years, does this also apply to these pensioners? An order issued to another place also requires clarifications, for example in terms of commuting and other practical arrangements, such as whether the worker in question should be able to stay at another place if he or she is assigned to work there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u169	Mr President! It is very good that this regulation of the Emergency Act is now being brought here in Parliament. Of course, preparations for this had already been made, and with the small amendments it has now been re-examined here. In addition to Mr Berg’s speech, I wanted to bring to this, and I am not really going to repeat the comments that have been made, a wish that has been expressed to me about a couple of health workers who are currently not working in public health care. Many people have hoped that the municipalities, including the health care districts, would go ahead and make a list of the types of people we currently work in the private sector and, on the other hand, perhaps in the public sector who do not have direct health care or social care. Then, when the real need arises when this article is applied and people are also assigned to work, it would then be easier to point people to the right jobs and find the right skills. And if you need to train new staff, for example, for intensive care or for the use of their equipment, then that would be possible in anticipation. Of course, local employers already have the right to a directive on the workers who are their employees, that is, this regulation is not really needed. In fact, this is already the case in many municipalities: those who work in early childhood care, for example, with local care training, have already been transferred to health care or social services to carry out other tasks in order to have a pair of hands. I hope this time in Parliament that this regulation will be dealt with successfully.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u170	Mr President! It is important that Parliament now has access to the regulation to activate this section of the Emergency Act on health care personnel. I would like to point out that the Constitutional Committee required that the activation of this obligation of employment be accompanied by the activation of these other articles of the Emergency Act, Chapter 14, in particular concerning the protection of workers. In this corona crisis, I would like to highlight in particular Article 99 of the Emergency Act, which states that ‘the employment authority may only provide a labour officer with a working order for work that can be done with due regard to his age, health status, potential disability, family relations’. In other words, we now know that the coronavirus treats people differently, and the virus is particularly dangerous for certain groups of people at risk — age or health — and it is therefore essential that this Article 99 is now used and that this obligation under Article 95(2) is applied,sothe provisions on protection are also applicable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u171	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u172	Mr President! As a result of this epidemic of corona virus, the economic conditions of companies have deteriorated significantly, very much in a short period of time, and it has therefore been necessary for them to take adjustment measures. The number of layoffs for employment and economic development offices has now skyrocketed since the first half of March, and some companies have also had to resort to layoffs, not layoffs, and now cooperation negotiations are taking place in several workplaces. On 18 March, the social partners — EK, KT, SAK, STTK and Akava — jointly presented to the government measures to safeguard business, employment and livelihood in the economic crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic. Labour market centre organisations will draw up a joint proposal on measures to reduce the cost of employment, make labour law more flexible and improve social security for workers who are unemployed and laid-off. The measures now proposed in this law are essentially in line with those proposed by the social partners. This proposal proposes temporary changes to the Employment Contracts Act, the Maritime Contracts Act and the Co-operation Act. The provisional law should extend until the end of June this year. The changes contained in this proposal would apply to the private sector. According to the Government’s proposal, the period of lay-off notice prior to the lay-off of the employee is now reduced from 14 to 5 days. Similarly, it is proposed to shorten the duration of the cooperation negotiations on lay-off. The five-day negotiating period would apply to all layoffs considered by the employer. This law does not change the timing of negotiations when the employer considers dismissals or part-time updates. According to this proposal, the employer would be entitled to lay off a fixed-term employee under the same conditions as an employee in an indefinite employment relationship. A fixed-term worker may be laid off, first of all where the employer has an economic or production ground for dismissal, second, if the work or the employer’s capacity to provide work has been temporarily reduced and the employer cannot reasonably arrange for other suitable work or training to meet the employer’s needs — the reduction in work is considered temporary when it is estimated to last up to 90 days — and third, when the employer and employee have agreed to lay off on a fixed-term basis in a situation where it is necessary due to the financial condition of the employer’s activities. According to the proposal, the employer may terminate the contract of employment of a probationary worker on an economic or productive basis within the meaning of the Employment Contracts Act. However, before carrying out the probationary period, the employer must determine whether it would be possible to avoid the termination of the contract of employment by investing or training the employee in other tasks. It is now proposed to extend the readmission period under the Employment Contracts Act and the Maritime Labour Contracts Act from four to six months to nine months. The proposed longer readmission period applies to all workers made redundant on an economic or production basis during the period of validity of the law, irrespective of the duration of their employment. Similar amendments are proposed to the Maritime Labour Contracts Act and the proposed amendment to the Co-operation Act also applies to maritime labour relations. This proposal does not interfere with the contractual compass of the employers' and employees' unions. By way of derogation from the law, a collective agreement between national associations of employers and employees may continue to agree on the time of the lay-off notice, the consultation period of the cooperation law and the readmission obligation. A collective agreement applicable to a contract of employment therefore has priority over the provision of the law. Employers' and employees' unions have made changes to collective agreements on the proposed negotiating periods and lay-off notice periods, and the scope of the agreements is already quite wide — I have been through these with the social partners. These collective agreements also apply to non-organised companies where the collective agreement has been established as a general commitment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u173	Thank you. — And then let's go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u174	Mr President! There are again very clear weaknesses in the position of workers in the presentation, but we are living in exceptional times, and this is reflected by the fact that our social partners have, however, unanimously been behind these proposals. I am not going to go into any of this, but one thing that has now been thought about and will probably be considered by us in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities — possibly tomorrow, if we have not received an answer to it — is why the proposal by this government to amend the Employment Contracts Act is proposed to be in force until 30 June and not until 30 July, as is the proposal for a temporary amendment to the Unemployment Protection Act. Would it not be good if these laws were synchronised in terms of their validity, because they are very much interdependent in terms of content?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u175	Mr President! This is an important proposal, on the one hand, to reduce the lay-off procedure — from 14 to 5 days — and, on the other hand, to reduce the duration of the suspension negotiations from 6 weeks or 14 to 5 days, and, on the other hand, to strengthen the worker's unemployment benefit in the event of lay-off. But I would now like to raise two points on this, the first of which I consider to be a direct mishap: So now, as indicated by the Minister's presentation, this reduced notice period, five days, will not apply if otherwise agreed in TES, and there is still the possibility of agreeing otherwise. We know the number of TES applicable in Finland, there are huge numbers of them, and now I understand that certain key sectors have announced that this five days will be taken to the TES, but it is quite clear that it must take time to change all these TES, and then it may be that the parties will not be able to reach an agreement on the five-day lay-off notice now being submitted. So why did this decision come to the conclusion that it was still allowed to agree differently in TES? Would it not have been appropriate in this situation, in which the country is in exceptional circumstances — an exceptional time in which many companies are in deep difficulty for reasons beyond their control — that this five-day lay-off notice period should in any event have been applied, regardless of how the TES has agreed? And secondly, the question to the Minister: is this five-day notice period to be applied as if retrospectively, i.e. if it is that the lay-off notice has been issued before either the law has entered into force or the TES amendment has entered into force, then it is as if it were to be regarded as good in the event that this change comes into force?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u176	Mr President! Exceptional times call for extraordinary actions, and here is one. However, this is intended to help companies that have been hit by a cash crisis to maintain their company by speeding up lay-offs. The aim is, of course, that these laid-off persons should not be made redundant. This is not something that we can afford in this country, and it is also very important that, at the same time as facilitating lay-off, unemployment benefit for laid-off persons is also improved. It is therefore a good thing that these proposals are being taken side-by-side and, at the same time, speeding up access to unemployment benefit for laid-off persons. I would have asked about this same question that Mr Vestman asked about: Mr Haatainen, at the beginning, you described that you have already received an answer from quite a few trade unions or social partners at all that they are being taken to TES. What is your assessment, how far and comprehensively and how quickly will this be brought into all collective agreements, and if this does not happen, will the government be prepared, as originally stated, to take this into force under the law? It would be very important that, in this situation, this should now be possible for all companies that are in trouble. The second question, or perhaps more of a reflection, relates to the fact that, following their joint negotiations, the social partners stated that Article 60 of the Cooperation Act is now applicable. — I think it was Rule 60, now, at this late hour in the evening, we are beginning to get a little busy — which makes it possible to deviate from these deadlines, and they said that, under these circumstances, it is in force, but now we are making these acronyms, as it were, quite comprehensively for all TES, or trying to bring it into force for all TES. How, then, is this being interpreted, how should this be interpreted? Since the social partners have already announced that they believe that this article is in force, can companies now be confident that this is the case? So many have already acted on it, at least as I see it. In the short term, unfortunately, people have to be laid off, so, in the Minister’s view, has it been done correctly and has the government given its own opinion on this, I would be happy to hear it. But let me also say that now that much is being said here on the left as well as on the right about businesses and jobs, that is, of course, because we are concerned about the people who work in those companies, of course, in addition to those entrepreneurs. Of course, entrepreneurs always bear its greatest financial responsibility for what happens to that company, but the aim of us trying to help entrepreneurs and businesses now is that those jobs should remain, because that is the only possible goal for the long-term sustainability of this society if we want to hold onto this welfare society even after this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u177	Mr President! It is good to see this, although it has now come through the crisis that the social partners have very quickly reached such an agreement. This is where colleagues asked the question of how this has now been achieved in these TES. It's good to hear the answer. Of course, the hope is that it will be seen as necessary and urgent as far as possible, both on the employer and on the employee side. This exceptional situation in itself shows that the government now wants to make a contribution to ensuring that employers are able to adapt quickly, but also to ensure that when workers are laid off or when changes occur very quickly, there are no disproportionate situations for them either.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u178	Mr President! This does indicate that we have a functioning system, a system of agreements, a social partners, a good ability to cooperate in a situation where everyone has identified this situation as extremely serious. This is explained by the fact that in two days I received the proposals, the joint proposals on the basis of which this legislation has now been taken forward. The question was why this has not been brought by law and whether it is being imported, making the law. Yes, in this situation, I believe that the latest act would be to introduce mandatory laws, because that would ultimately be the case. So here we have wanted, the government wants, to emphasise that we are going to cooperate with the parties to the collective agreement and trust that these responsible social partners are now working. I've been going through what's been done in the TES field. Huge work has been done, and the last ones will be done there. Most of the work has been done in this very week, and now we are going to go through the rest of the negotiations after the weekend. They're doing a tough job, but they're ready to do it. And that is, I would ask the representatives to note, the common position on this issue which has come from the social partners. Then this question of the times of these laws — Mr Berg asked about this compatibility. The government will, of course, be able to extend these if necessary. We are looking at these, but this has now been done with these timetables. The STM side will then come with proposals on unemployment benefit, and their timetables are not yet there. Then this reduction in the notice period of lay-off for five days. The employee must therefore be informed of the lay-off no later than five days before the start of the lay-off. Now, if the employer has informed the employee of the lay-off before the entry into force of this law, then the worker may be laid off at least five days after the notification. So this means five days have had to pass. ‘The employer shall inform the worker of the In other words, this is what Mr Vestman must have meant, that it will be taken into account. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u179	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u180	Mr President! When the Council of State, in cooperation with the President of the Republic on 16 March, concluded that Finland is in exceptional circumstances due to the situation of corona virus, this state of emergency has also led to a weakening of the business capacity and an increase in layoffs, and this of course could jeopardise the implementation of the unemployment benefit system now. The employment situation of the Employment and Economic Development Offices is congested, as job seekers now register with TE Offices. From the point of view of laid-off income, it is now important that this laid-off person receives unemployment benefit from this lay-off period without undue delay. The government is concerned about securing the livelihood of laid-off persons, as information on new lay-offs comes every day. The government is now proposing a temporary change in unemployment benefits for laid-off workers in order to ensure that those who are laid off receive their unemployment benefits quickly and that the TE Offices are able to cope with the processing congestion. This law is intended to enter into force on 1 April and would be in force until the end of July. The amendment would apply to jobseekers laid off on or after 16 March 1920. The most significant change now in this proposal is that a laid-off person registered as a job seeker would be entitled to unemployment benefit, inter alia, without prejudice to business activities and studies. If the laid-off person has a business income, the Social Insurance Institution and the unemployment fund take that income into account for adjusted unemployment benefit. A lay-off would not be required to apply for full-time work. The TE Office would not determine the conditions for receiving a benefit in respect of employment other than employment and employment in business and own work. Nor would the impact of studies or the obligation to apply for education for a laid-off young person under the age of 25 be investigated. The provisions of the Unemployment Security Act on refusal to work and on non-compliance with an employment plan or a replacement plan and service would not be investigated. However, if a person refused the job offered to him by a lay-off or other employer, the provisions of the Unemployment Benefits Act on refusal of employment would apply to the procedure of the jobseeker. During this interest rate situation, it is very unlikely that the employment and economic development offices will provide lay-off workers with compulsory services or offer job offers to receive unemployment benefit. Therefore, the need to find out whether a service or a job has been offered would in practice be irrelevant and would only delay access to that benefit. The proposed change would therefore speed up the application for and receipt of unemployment benefit for the laid-off person and thus reduce congestion at the TE Offices.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u181	Then let's go to the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u182	Mr President! Thank you to Minister Haatainen for his presentation and to the government for this good proposal, which will now make things easier for workers, that is to say, by making it easier to lay off, the unemployment benefit will also be available more quickly. On the other hand, we still did not get a proposal for unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs and, while the Minister is still here, if he still has time to answer, I would be happy to hear what his schedule is, for many entrepreneurs first missed their incomes and since then have been asked to minimise those expenses and now, in practice, many have to lay off themselves, as it were, until there is a chance to start again doing business again. This proposal is already in a reasonable hurry. The second thing I am concerned about is that, as the Minister has said, the resources of the Employment Offices are now, as it were, on the brink of a situation in which there will certainly be a lot of new issues to deal with. At the same time, however, we will continue to promote, or certainly not at the moment, but before this crisis, the experiment of local employment, which in itself has to be supported. But the question arises now that this crisis is on the table, is there a need to postpone the implementation of the experiment: is it possible to deal with these two issues at the same time, that is to say to involve municipalities in the management of employment even more closely, or is it the case that, in this situation, municipalities should now be able to concentrate solely on the acute care of the disease and crisis and on others which the municipality is responsible for?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u183	Thank you. Minister Haatainen, do you have any answers?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-36.u184	Mr President! These other proposals are being prepared at the moment, and as soon as they are available, they will be forthcoming. This work is carried out in cooperation with the STM.
