ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 17/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should remain in force or whether it should be partially or totally repealed. In this context, discussion is also allowed on the 3rd issue of the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u2	Mr President! The Constitutional Committee has today produced two reports on the regulations on the extension of the powers of the Emergency Act. The committee proposes that the regulations on the extension of powers should remain in force. I will start with a regulation on the extension of Articles 86, 88, 93 and 94 of the Emergency Act. The legal basis for dealing with the extension regulations is Article 8 of the Emergency Act. In the event of further exceptional circumstances, Article 8 of the Emergency Act provides for the extension of the provisions of Part Two of the Act. Such a extension regulation may be adopted for a limited period of not more than six months at a time. The extension regulation must be referred to Parliament immediately. Parliament decides whether the regulation should remain in force or whether it should be partially or completely repealed. The extension regulation is concerned with the following powers under the Emergency Act: directing social welfare and health care units, empowering the municipality to waive the time limits for urgent care and the assessment of the need for social care services, derogating from the conditions of employment in health care and social services, extending the period of notice for staff in health care and social services. The Regulation would extend the exercise of powers until 30 June. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there are very strong grounds for continuing to exercise the powers of the Emergency Act from the point of view of the fundamental rights system. Nor did the committee consider powers to be contrary to the requirement of proportionality in the current situation. The committee considered it justified that the powers of the Emergency Response Act should be introduced at a limit than in the past. Some of the powers previously introduced will not be extended and others will continue to be more limited than in the past. However, the committee made some critical remarks. The existence of exceptional circumstances is examined in the explanatory memorandum to the extension regulation, mainly on the basis of a decision taken by the Government in March. The committee considers it necessary that, in the context of the adoption of any future extension regulations, the criteria for the existence of exceptional circumstances should be assessed significantly more precisely than is now the case. The committee also stresses, as in the past, the primacy of the legislation on normal conditions and the competences which are as little lacking in fundamental rights as possible. The committee notes that, especially in the event of a prolonged epidemic situation, any necessary changes to the legislation on normal conditions should be introduced. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also stresses that Article 4 of the Act allows the powers of the Emergency Act to be exercised only in such ways as are necessary to achieve the purpose of the law and in proportion to the objective pursued for the exercise of the power to act. These principles limit both the introduction of powers and their use in exceptional circumstances. Mr President! Do you want me to introduce you to section 87? [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne : Yes, please. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u5	Thank you. Now for the debate, there will also be a third point on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u6	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and President Ojala-Niemela for their excellent and unanimous handling of these matters. I am sure that these critical remarks, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has written on this report, are also necessary, and it is important to have a debate on them, particularly in the light of the way in which this corona epidemic is progressing and the kind of restrictions that will continue to be required. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to the arguments behind the continuation of exceptional circumstances and to the need for the government to pay serious attention to the fact that the alternative nature of the various measures is also better and more differentiated. I am sure that we all agree that there is still a need to maintain exceptional conditions, but when it comes to issues which are very much lacking in the fundamental rights of citizens, it is important that these are also carefully justified and dealt with. Attention has also been paid here to the fact that there is little justification for the application of powers throughout the country and that this information on the use of powers to date is very general. This corona epidemic, especially at the moment, is very different in different parts of the country, and fortunately we already have medical districts where no new infections have occurred in recent days. For that reason too, it would certainly be good to consider the need for these measures for the whole country and, in a certain way, for the region as well. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to the debate on the communication between the authorities and also the government, the interface between these various restrictions and recommendations. In other words, legal scholars, for example, have criticised information on the fact that it is unclear to the public because it is a recommendation and because it is a legal provision. These have come in border traffic, in quarantine recommendations, including those over 70 years of age.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u7	Mr President! I strongly support the adoption of this regulation. It is a question of legislation under exceptional circumstances when, at this point, we are assessing the regulation and its adoption or withdrawal. Here, too, I would like to thank the Government, which, in this round, has provided much better arguments and ex-ante impact assessments, which have also been discussed in this Chamber. This regulation has been easier to deal with than its predecessor when it has been more broadly justified on our side of the Constitutional Committee. I would also like to stress that the situation with regard to these regulations is still exceptional at this point. We have done a lot of research in health care in the past, and we always rely on our political decision-making in research, but in general — or always before that — the study has been carried out precisely afterwards when we have been able to get all the numbers and data in our hands and then assess how to treat, for example, the infectious disease. But this time it is exceptional that we also evaluate this research aspect at the same time as the situation is in place. The clumsily advance of the interest rate is a genuine threat, and that is why there has been a need for this regulation, too, to continue it. We are on our way to the holiday season, which is why there can really be a need for this regulation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention and I would also like to draw attention in this Chamber to the fact that it is proposed to extend the exercise of powers on this point beyond the limits of the past. In other words, people who carry out environmental health care tasks, rescue services and emergency services, as well as police officers, for example, have been excluded from this, and in this way this regulation will now be taken further. We are talking about the possibility of these exceptions, but it is not about automation that we deviate from normal circumstances. That is why I would like to emphasise again in this Chamber that we are now giving considerable power to the municipalities and the officials who take these decisions to assess the need there at local level. These measures cannot be taken unless they are absolutely necessary, i.e. unless, for example, the Act on Contagion and its powers provide sufficient support for this activity. The official who applies these provisions of the Regulation must have strong arguments and must also be able to be disclosed. I would also like to point out that the powers relate more to ensuring the functioning of the health system than to preventing the spread of this epidemic, which we are easily discussing. In order to prevent the spread of the epidemic, it would be necessary for us to increase the number of tests throughout Finland so that just ordinary people can be tested. There has been a significant improvement in this over the last few weeks, and today I heard such news from, among other things, the Päijät-Häme Joint Municipal Authority for Wellbeing. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u8	Mr President! The Christian Democrats yesterday already stated in that referral debate that we are in favour of these continuation regulations in the area of social welfare and health care and in the management of medical and supply services in the health sector. It is important that the committee has drawn attention to these arguments and to the fact that the explanatory statement has partly used the same arguments as when these regulations were first put into effect. Of course, it is said here that there is still an assessment of the threat of a re-acceleration of the epidemic to such a level that it would cause an overload of health care, and that the risk of a re-acceleration of the epidemic is high and imminent, and that it can occur quickly. If the capacity of health care is overloaded, a proportion of the population will be exposed to coronavirus infection with a risk of life and health that would be avoidable without overloading, that is to say, there will certainly be a central paragraph which will allow these health care regulations to continue. But, as has been said here, the regulations relating to early childhood education and also to environmental health care, school, rescue services, emergency services and police action — their continuation is no longer necessary. Perhaps even at the end of the day this Parliament will have to consider what the criteria are, which will then continue to assess this. In particular, perhaps in this context, I would like to highlight this unsolicited treatment, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also highlighted in its paragraph, the problem of the impact of this regulation on the health of the population at present, and whether this is a bit of a corner point, that, especially in many municipalities, in the medical districts, this unsolicited treatment has gone so far down the drain that it may then, on the one hand, cause this impotent need for care and, on the other hand, increase health risks. In particular, we should perhaps draw attention to the fact that, on a regional level, we actually have this epidemic in very different ways, and the situation in which we have to think about the lay-off of staff because there are not enough patients is perhaps quite absurd in some way. And here I would like to see the right messages being sent to the field at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health that the maintenance of these regulations does not pose a greater threat to public health than they do not. Mr President! Indeed, KD supports the continued validity of these regulations, and in that respect it is important to take these forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u9	Mr President! The aim of this collection of regulations is indeed to safeguard the health system during the crisis, and now that it seems that there is a high risk that the epidemic may be prolonged, the importance of such action will certainly be emphasised. At the same time, there is growing concern about urgent care. Regrettable examples have been heard of how urgent care has been prioritised away across Finland, not necessarily because the staff were tied to training related to corona operations or corona operations, but for other reasons. That is why this is all the time being emphasised both in communication and, in particular, in these reports by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that we should not really prioritize the urgent treatment if it is not absolutely necessary because of the interest rate. It has been regrettable that a lot of municipalities are now experiencing major financial problems partly because of the interest rate, partly because of past concerns, and now this is becoming an ongoing aid from the state level. Its adequacy must be ensured, but at the same time it must be borne in mind that this economic concern is not in itself a reason to give up statutory services that are really important for human health. So we must continue to insist that problems do not get worse and that people get help in time. In particular, it has been regrettable if, and in some places, there has been a downward trend towards activities whose need is more marked by the interest rate, such as support for students and students' learning, mental health support, other forms of assistance that are particularly important now that people and families are burdened by coronas. That is why it is important to ensure that there are really well-balanced solutions at the local level and that there are sufficient resources, because there are indeed these two aspects: to manage the corona crisis with sufficient powers and then, on the one hand, to ensure that there is sufficient funding to really do all that is necessary. After all, this territoriality is a big challenge here. We know that the corona does not spread in the same way across Finland, but at the same time we know that it is small-scale, that in some remote region the disease can collapse and then the health system is threatened. That is why it has now been decided that the possibility of anticipation is of paramount importance and that it is ultimately best for the local authorities to give it the authority to make that judgement. But, as has been said, that consideration should be made in a truly balanced way, for for many people it is urgent care and the rest of the reverse sides of these powers are vital. This is a broader debate in this context of the interest rate. We have a fairly decentralised model in Finland, municipalities and hospital districts have a lot of power. At the same time, it is good because we can make the best decisions locally, but at the same time it sometimes complicates coordination and may lead to unequal situations. It is therefore important to draw attention to the fact that information is available, that it is known what the situation is and that it is possible to address this problem at national level if necessary. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u10	Mr. Speaker! It is important to emphasise that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was unanimous in this report on the adoption of the future regulations, and I hope that this great House, the plenary, will also be unanimous in the future. Mr Ojala-Niemelä, Mr Kemppi and Mr Suomela have already pointed out the key points which should be highlighted in the light of this further application. I will address one issue that is new in this report 17 on this first regulation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs draws attention to the fact that the validity of the exceptional circumstances is, after all, unregulated in that the Emergency Act only lays down how it will be introduced by the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic, but does not specify how it will be removed from the exceptional circumstances. This is where, by analogy, defence space law and preparedness law have been drawn up, it is always fixed-term in the Defence State Act, up to a maximum of six months, and then the extension comes as if automatically into Parliament, but there is no such thing here. Since these exceptional circumstances have now been recognised as valid for the time being, then the Government, the President and Parliament must, in a way, build the model of how the end of the exceptional circumstances is established. It is likely that it will be the case that the Government will adopt a regulation stating with the President the end of these exceptional circumstances. In this respect, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs requires that, in the context of the adoption of any future extension regulations, the criteria for the existence of exceptional circumstances, which are now more specific, should be significantly assessed. The committee also draws attention to the fact that exceptions to fundamental rights under Article 23 of the Constitution include a requirement for temporary derogations. So if this six-month standard is assessed, then in September it would then be the first such more serious checkpoint, whether exceptional conditions still exist, but this is therefore more flexible in this preparedness legislation. In the future, it must also be considered that if such a squirming phase in a pandemic can be maintained for a long time, that is, there will not be much more cases and if such a squirming phase lasts for a year for example, it would also be possible to control the Act on communicable diseases and some other regulations in such a way that they would work better in such a wide pandemic situation, now that they are more focused on regional and sporadic infectious diseases. This is another way of keeping it under control without being obliged to follow these exemption and preparedness law procedures.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u11	Mr President! I myself thought to draw attention to the same point as Mr Koskinen, that if these exceptional circumstances start to become more or less normal, then what should be done. As the committee points out, particularly in the event of a prolonged epidemic situation, any necessary changes to the legislation on normal conditions must be introduced — at what stage will this consideration be used? And there was a mention of the Act on Disease Control. What other laws should be amended in order to achieve the same goal, as it were, without special circumstances? The second point that needs to be raised is the extent to which the committee then intervened and considered these regional measures. We know by name that Finland is a sparsely populated country, and when we look at certain effective measures combined with the fact that Finns are a very law-abiding people and believe in the regulations or even recommendations of the authorities, to what extent could we consider taking some different measures in different areas to ensure that they are proportionate and reasonable to the objective pursued? And to what the previous speakers referred, this unsolicited treatment: If it happens now that people are afraid of hospitals, where is it, is it in the press or where? We should also try to dismantle the mental lock so that professional people in hospitals do not roll their thumbs because people are afraid to come, even if the precautions are scaled so that the risk of corona disease is very low.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u12	Mr President! We all recognise the risks of the interest rate and we also recognise that the Finnish Government has acted with great determination, even early when these restrictive measures were imposed. The outcome at this stage, when this situation is assessed and compared internationally, is exceptionally good in that this crisis has been managed successfully. Now we are in a situation, perhaps early or not, that we will inevitably be forced to dismantle these restrictions, and here the previous speakers have already talked about a smoldering corona crisis, which is a genuine phenomenon, because at the moment, Even in Uusimaa, even if there are ten times as many infected as those who have been genuinely registered for the corona virus, it is only 2 percent of the population of Uusimaa. So 98% have not yet been exposed at all, when the real situation is that this corona virus will be at its worst even for years, when we will have to think about how we are going to do these restrictive measures. Mr President! I would like to draw attention to one group, which is the most important risk group, i.e. the elderly. It has been quite right that people 70 years old should be given special attention, that they live under quarantine-like conditions and, as has been said here, that Finns are very law-abiding, and that the elderly have really humbly and carefully followed — even their own health, but also the health of others — these guidelines that have existed. However, we have now become alarmingly aware of the fact that, when this isolation has been taken too seriously, it has had problematic consequences for both the mental side of the elderly and also for the physical condition of the elderly. We have not had the courage to go out even though it has been recommended to go out, exercise and so forth — and now we are in the middle of a crisis that we need to look gradually at how these restrictive measures are taken. It is good to remember that 84 years is the median age of death among the 250 people who died roughly, and over 70% are over 80 years old, while between 70 and 79 are 15% and then the remaining 15% are under 70 years old. In other words, this age limit, which is set, also has room for manoeuvre, and perhaps in this respect we should gradually create a cultural environment and a way of thinking that is not completely isolated — physical activity is carried out and, at certain levels, it is also possible to contact the closest ones, because the quality of life in this society must also be taken into account, and older people must also have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u13	Mr President! For my part, too, I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the reports. As has been said here, the reports are unanimous and therefore propose to continue the exercise of the powers of the Government provided for in the aforementioned paragraphs, i.e. they should remain in force. The committee has drawn attention to the fact that the powers of the Emergency Act in general can only be exercised when they are necessary and proportionate in order to achieve the purpose of the Act. As Mr Kempp has said, the regulations are now being taken further. It also signals that powers cannot be introduced on a light basis and, of course, this aspect of precision must be maintained. So this is where we managed to live in the moment. Like many representatives, I also have concerns about these situations of unemergency care. In society, a nursing debt may be brewed, which eventually increases a dam that may erupt uncontrollably. President! When this acute crisis is over — and that day will come — we will certainly also need legislative reforms. In similar situations, we should have more agile legislation that would allow us to respond more effectively and quickly to the situation. President! At this end, one such thing — although I know it is going to pass a little bit — is that now that schools are opening up in about a week’s time, it should be considered that when moving to the Basic Education Act, the possibility of distance learning would also be included, so that schools would be able to react more easily in similar pandemic situations. At the moment, this hybrid model for local and distance education is not possible; it is more of a either-or-a-situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u14	Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated in its discussion of the continuation of the regulations implementing the Emergency Act that there are still grounds for them, but in the future the situation may be different in the event of a prolonged situation and will have to move on to measures, as it were, in the form of more permanent legislation. Unfortunately, even if the pandemic itself subsides, we may be in a situation where the same people who are currently doing that important work are treating other people, whether the corona-sick or the rest of our sick, their needs will only grow even more in the future. This is, of course, due to many things, including ageing, but also to the fact that people are unfortunately afraid to go to treatment at the moment. This is very worrying from a number of points of view, because, of course, although the corona at the moment is perhaps the most visible threat to our health, other diseases have not gone anywhere. Other things than corona can still die, and that is why it would be very important to create that sense of safety for people at the moment, not only feeling, but also genuine safety, that when you go to treatment or control, for example, there is no risk of developing corona infection, because many people who are particularly in need of treatment belong to the group that are particularly at risk of getting a serious form of disease. A very important aspect is also that older people remain able to function well, with daily mobility and physical activity as an important enabler. It is a very good thing that it now seems that quarantine restrictions for people over 70 years of age will become easier so that they are recommended so that they no longer need to experience themselves as if they were imprisoned in four walls, but that they can and should move and encourage them to take off at least outdoors. This perspective is important if we also consider those people who may no longer be able to cope on their own, depend on the services that bring home home home care. For example, making rehabilitation possible and bringing home physiotherapy would still be very important in this exceptional situation. In fact, we have made this kind of a slightly longer agenda, which would allow us to take care of the help and ability of older people in such exceptional circumstances, and hopefully now that there is clearly greater concern in this Chamber that the disadvantages of any restriction may outweigh the benefits of them in certain age groups, we could jointly look at and execute these proposals by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u15	Mr President! The danger of a pandemic is not over. It may be prolonged and can also become multi-peaked and seasonal and sometimes sleep. We will learn to live with this corona for a long time, perhaps. It is therefore necessary both to lift the restrictions and to continue the regulations in relation to the Emergency Act. At the same time, it takes patience and courage to break down restrictions. In future, we may also have to take turns dismantling and re-establish new restrictions in the event of a change in the epidemic situation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs sat down from the morning and unanimously stated that these extension regulations could be maintained. I would like to thank the Government for having more clearly described the situation and justified the necessity and proportionality of the various measures. We live under exceptional circumstances regulated by the Act of Emergency Response. Mr Koskinen well described the nature of this emergency law: the President and the Government state these exceptional circumstances, and then, when these regulations are no longer necessary, there will be a situation when there will be no more exceptional circumstances. If the pandemic remains just like a dormant phase, it is worth considering carefully whether there will be any further emergency conditions. The laws of normal conditions should also be supplemented so that they function better in such new circumstances. Such preparation should begin immediately. Representative Kivisaari pointed out the amendment to the Basic Education Act that the law would be open to distance education. It would also be good to have clarifications in the Act on communicable diseases in situations such as this pandemic. We will learn from all of this for future legislative work. This, of course, requires a thorough analysis and analysis, research as a basis for decision-making. Now that restrictive measures have been dismantled, it can give rise to fear in humans. It is important that we clearly communicate to people what is safe. Regionalism is one of our challenges, as has been pointed out in the speeches. Driving out of urgent care throughout Finland has led to and leads to this nursing debt and queues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u16	Mr President! As such, the extension of the Emergency Act is justified because we now have even more infected people than we did when the Emergency Act was originally introduced, i.e. there are grounds for it. But for my part, like many other speakers, I am particularly concerned about the situation of this unsolicited treatment, as the crisis has been prolonged for several months now. The fact is, though, that people do not seek medical attention there, not even that unhurried treatment. Even if a person’s illness does not immediately threaten his life or is similarly urgent, it cannot be stopped indefinitely. I have heard of cases where the removal of urgent care, for example from oral health care, has led to situations where people who have had a tooth chipped are said to get a temporary place at the pharmacy and try to get along with it, and the ophthalmologist is calling for an inspection period, that it has been cancelled, and they cannot tell when the time might be available — they promised to come back when they can return. Those teeth cannot be in people’s mouth forever through and the eyes cannot be unsearchable, not to mention serious diseases of the internal organs, researching cancers and such doubts. It generates a huge therapeutic debt that must be settled at some point, and its price will be very heavy, both financially and humanly. The second thing that worries me when this crisis is prolonged is the isolation of the elderly. In principle, this recommendation for the isolation of 70-year-olds is a recommendation that an individual who lives with his or her own help can follow or not, at his or her own discretion, as in the final analysis. But a person who is dependent on the help of others in nursing institutions has no real alternative to dismantling that isolation. How long can people be kept separate from their loved ones in this way, people who may not have many months to live? For them, this isolation of the months is a very long period of time and significantly worsens the quality of life. The fact that we can get out of this corona, that we have some sort of exit strategy, calls for measures to be taken to ensure that these everyday, essential things — medical visits, close meetings with elderly people in care facilities — are handled safely. Would this be a place for some kind of guidance on the use of breath masks and other protective equipment to allow people to visit doctors and institutions without infecting other or elderly people in care establishments who are known to be a high-risk group for corona? Perhaps such a recommendation would be necessary. I would therefore expect clear measures from the government to move forward on this issue and also from the authorities. Now that there was no Question Time today for any reason, we will not be able to hear what measures such as this have been planned. Maybe the government will tell you about them on its own initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u17	Mr President! Thank you to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and its chairman, Mr Ojala-Niemelä, for the good and thorough and very rapid action required by this type of legislation, and also for the assessment of the need to continue to maintain this emergency law and the exceptional circumstances. Of course, yesterday or the day before, in that referral debate, I myself was already thinking about how long, so to speak, in the interests of certainty or certainty, these can be maintained, for at the moment, as has also been said in this debate, we have quite big regional differences. In many areas, there have been no infections throughout the epidemic, and in many areas they have also been significantly reduced. I myself pay particular attention to these older people, who are over 70 years old and then older. In the 70s, there are many very active, fit people who have now been forced to live in a very tight isolation of loved ones and others. I welcome the fact that we are now considering and reassessing, for example, the strictness of their isolation, the fact that we are not protecting these 70-year-olds and elderly people from disease, let alone even death. You have to let them move around and meet you outside. And, for example, now that the services in the churches begin, the system must be such that society gives room for these elderly people to enter the church, and I believe that there will certainly be solutions to this. There is also an important issue of concern here, which has been raised in many good speeches on every side of the Chamber, and it is hoped that it will also work well. This regional and temporal assessment is also something that certainly needs to be considered. Although this legislation, which we are now dealing with, does not apply to cafes and restaurants, they, like them, may need to reflect on this regional situation in a new way, that we should all extend the same measures to every province and every city. For example, why is it necessary to keep cafés and lunches closed for the whole of May, for example, in a municipality where there have been no recent infections or, for example, during the whole epidemic? After all, we are talking about a drastic restriction of fundamental rights, a restriction on the freedom to conduct a business and the protection of property. And when, for example, the opening of schools was justified by legalism and it was said that it was necessary to open them, one might ask, ‘Is it necessary to keep these cafés, lunch cafés, small cafés legally reserved throughout the whole of Finland? ’ I believe that this is an assessment which must be carried out quickly before the beginning of June.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u18	Mr President! Indeed, we are dealing with the continuation of the powers of the Emergency Act and thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a swift report and a unanimous report. As the committee points out here, the powers of the Emergency Act should not be introduced lightly or, as it were, in the interests of certainty. Part of the explanatory memorandum to the Regulation conveys the view that the exercise of powers will continue in a proactive and, as it were, in the interests of certainty, but it is equally important for a controlled and safe dismantling of restrictions on large sections of the population, while at the same time providing for effective, rapid and national means to deal with a potentially higher number of patients with coronavirus disease. Moreover, the committee's report is a good one. Mr President! As far as the use and burden of basic health care services during exceptional circumstances are concerned, there has been a lot of public debate in recent times that in many medical districts there has been a significant drop in the amount of care without haste, even in my own region of Northern Ostrobothnia, of almost 25%. Thousands of visits have been unused, medical visits and mission visits. As such, there have been no queues for unruly care, which is precisely because of this fall in demand, but there has also been a different kind of feedback. I got feedback from Satakunta: A man who is actively employed in the forest and has reached the age of 70 has been waiting since October for cataract surgery in one eye, and in order to be able to renew his driving licence, for example, the condition is that he gets here for cataract surgery. But once again, although six months have passed, or the treatment guarantee has been fulfilled, he has been told that since you are over 70 years old, we will not treat you because you do not have an urgent need. I asked for this once again to be ensured, but it is incredible that we have such big regional differences. From my own hospital district, when I made sure of this, it was found that under no circumstances is it important, on the contrary, that the nursing debt, the nursing debt, should not increase. But indeed it has been more than six months, and the person has been said, from a higher point of view, to the ministry that it has been instructed that cataract surgery of over 70 years of age will not be performed. I would have asked if the Minister were here, but I hope that this message will also be transmitted through the government parties so that this cannot happen again. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u19	Mr President! The explanatory memorandum of this Regulation relies on the concept of hybrid strategy. Yesterday this was discussed here, and Mr Koskinen, among other things, made a good critical speech on this concept. This hybrid strategy is, in a way, a combination of two different objectives, two different goal objectives, and quite often it is thought to contain some combination of herd protection thinking and the suppression of the epidemic. I really regard it as a problematic concept. So if it does not mean it, then it would be better not to use that concept and just talk about these targeted tests, trace, isolates and manage strategies. Very good speeches have been made here in the debate about the right of people at risk and those over 70 years of age to participate in society. Certainly here for a few weeks, even a couple of months, many have been able to fight there in isolation in their own home, but clearly the messages are starting to come out that many over 70s are really tired of this situation. And if there is a prospect that now another wave will be awaited and they should continue to be isolated for the rest of this year, then there will be some unpleasant consequences for mental health and human endurance. That is why it is really important for the organisers of society, parishes, cultural events and other events to really think about how to safely involve people at risk and those over 70 in this society and how to safely enable them to interact with their loved ones. It requires protective equipment, facial masks, this frequent testing, but also arrangements that, for example, these services can be arranged separately from the morning to the 70s, the high-risk group and later from the afternoon to the others — just as the shops have done. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that at-risk groups, such as healthcare professionals or education professionals, are:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u20	Mr President! He didn't say the most important thing about this. With the extension of the Emergency Act in this respect, i.e. allowing medical staff, as it were, to continue or may be very hard on their own work if such a situation arises, it would therefore be very important to ensure now that the times and treatments that are now possible to do in this situation are not left unused. It is difficult to imagine how our valuable medical staff can cope with this situation if, even after this corona crisis, the gap in care continues to increase to such an extent that even then there would be an even greater need for their work and for overtime and so on. Surely at that point there will no longer be any legal basis for any specific regulation — and there should not be. That is why it would be very important now for the government to give instructions to all the hospitals and hospitals that people dare to go to treatment. This is also very important from the point of view of our staff in this situation, when you hear a lot of stories about, for example, the times for surgeries that would still be possible or are on schedule, are unfortunately cancelled at the moment. It has now led to a decision in some medical districts, for example, to remove the medical guarantee if you leave it unsolicited and then it is a very serious situation for the person himself. Mr President! I would like to raise another point which is not, in itself, related to this regulation for deployment, but to the epidemic and exceptional circumstances and to the situation we have been in. After all, the government has now decided on various forms of support for companies, and today we have just heard that, among other things, support for restaurants is still in the pipeline and that general support is in the process of further preparation. However, I have asked many times in this Chamber what the situation of our professional athletes is and it has been promised that preparations will be under way in this area. After all, professional athletes are not covered by unemployment benefit, they are a bit similar to musicmakers or musicians, for example. Yesterday, the Musicians' Union came forward with a statement that there was a great deal of concern about the fact that when you practice, it is now considered to be a profession, even if it is not paid, and thus, for example, you cannot obtain unemployment benefit at all. I would really like the government to tackle this detail now, because there are a lot of professionals, groups such as musicians and professional athletes who are now practically without any unemployment benefit, even if they are entitled to it in that sense. They cannot currently be paid or paid for their work because concerts, for example, have not been organised. A lot of people do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u21	Mr President! At the time of the start of the corona crisis, it was discovered in the early metres that the Emergency Act was not intended for crises of this kind and that the Emergency Act must be renewed after this revvoka. Today, there has been more discussion about whether the provisions of the Emergency Act could include elements that could be transferred to normal legislation, such as the Act on communicable diseases. I personally think that although the Constitutional Committee has done its work quickly and in a hurry, it has nevertheless been extremely accurate and very diversely assessed all the proposals made by the government, the Government, and their fairness and legality. Personally, I think that if these transfers of the Emergency Act are made, they too must be done with great care, so that nothing happens that would jeopardise justice and equality between people. I, too, am concerned about urgent care, and I think that the health services in particular must now invite customers and patients to take care of themselves, and we all need to be clearly more active in it than we may have been at the moment. We have talked a lot about special groups, and quite often older people are said to be, but we must remember that we have a wide range of other special groups — mental health patients, people with substance abuse problems, people with disabilities, children with poverty and families with children, homeless people — that is, we have many people who are in such a difficult situation with regard to these restrictions as our elderly people. In that sense, I hope that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will be able to cope with all of these special groups of ours when restrictions and reliefs are being made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-07-ps-69.u22	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 18/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should remain in force or whether it should be partially or totally repealed.
