ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 6/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should be repealed. — Chairman of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u2	Mr President! The Constitutional Committee has been assessed by a decree of the Government adopted pursuant to Sections 88(3) and 109(2) of the Emergency Act. The Regulation lays down temporary restrictions on the obligation to organise early childhood education and education and training. A regulation amending Article 3 of the Regulation, which removes the requirement for parents to act in areas critical to the functioning of society from the limitation of the obligation to organise education, has been incorporated into the proceedings. The Decree to be assessed is laid down pursuant to Articles 88(3) and 109(2) of the Act on Emergency Response. The provisions of the Act on Preparedness and Articles 2 and 6 of the Decree on the Adoption of the Government provide the basis for the implementing regulation to be assessed. In accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution and Article 10 of the Emergency Act, such regulations on the application of the Emergency Act should be submitted to Parliament. Parliament decides whether the regulations should be repealed. The restrictions provided for in the Regulation are, in part, a deep-rooted interference in fundamental rights. However, regulation has an acceptable objective to prevent the uncontrolled spread of the pandemic. The provisions seek to protect the right of people to life, which would be seriously threatened by the uncontrolled spread of the pandemic. In the Committee's view, regulation is essentially appropriate, in the light of the study received, necessary and with a relatively short period of time, also taking into account the proportionality requirement. However, the Constitutional Committee drew attention to Article 3(4) of the Decree as it stands in the Government Decree. According to the provision, the restrictions on the obligation to organise basic education do not apply to pre-school pupils, from 1 to 3 in basic education. pupils in the annual classes and not pupils who have received special support under the Basic Education Act, whose guardians work in areas critical to the functioning of society. According to the explanatory memorandum, the provision would ensure that a parent who needs child care is employed. The explanatory memorandum contains a broad list of those working in sectors that are critical to the functioning of society. The list is not intended to be exhaustive and, according to the explanatory memorandum, the updated list is maintained on the website of the Ministry of Education and Culture. In the committee's view, this provision would have been problematic. In the Committee's view, the regulation itself should have been based on more precise and precise provisions in the regulation on the basis of criteria for working in sectors which are critical to the functioning of society or on the definition of such a group of people. However, the Government has given 20. On 1 March, the regulation amending Article 3 of the Government Decree on temporary restrictions on the obligation to organise early childhood education and education and training. The limitation on parental involvement in critical areas of society has been removed. The committee has no comments on the delimitation. However, with regard to the regulation of basic education, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs draws attention to school meals. Free basic education, in line with the position adopted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the context of the reform of fundamental rights, also means adequate food. The committee will pay serious attention to this matter. According to the Constitutional Committee, the Government must closely monitor the fulfilment of the conditions for the application of the Act on Preparedness and the powers provided for in it, as well as any problems that may arise in applying it. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the Government regulations should not be repealed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u3	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Education, Li Andersson, for the centralisation of the matriculation examination tests. I'm sure that was the right thing to do. It has come to be commended by many aborigines and their parents. And I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mrs Ojala-Niemelä, for her excellent and rapid and thorough work. It has certainly also been justified that local education has been limited quite significantly. The premises of schools, educational institutions, universities, universities of applied sciences, adult education centres and other liberal educational activities are closed and local education is suspended. A small step has now been taken back in this case of the smallest pupils, i.e. those in basic education from 1 to 3. with regard to close-up education of class pupils, which was initially limited to those in critical fields. This entry has now been deleted, and I am sorry to say that I have received some worrying messages about this, Minister for Education. In other words, we still have early childhood education and basic education from 1 to 3. Part of the students in the class will continue their activities. Contact teaching is provided by teachers and early-school educators who are exposed to numerous contacts every day without protective equipment. I received a message from Tampere, for example, where 850 children are in school every day, and many of these are purely ‘day care’ in schools because of their family situation. So now the children are the ones in the schools who have not been able to stay at home, and we have to ask whether this is equal and fair to these children. Then we come to those families whose parents have not been able to stay away and who have no financial opportunity to stay at home with their own children. So now we have children in a very unequal position because these families, which have not had the financial opportunity to stay there to supervise or care for their children's remote education, are still, frankly, forced to go to contact education. I think that this is a big problem, and at some point I myself raised the question of whether a solution could have been found to ensure the livelihood of these families, so that even those families who did not have the remote work or financial status to leave the other parent's home could have done so. It would have been more equal and fair to these young children as well. The same problem actually appears in our early childhood education and day care at the moment. There many children are still in groups and these professionals, who are doing their educational work, are still partly exposed to large numbers of contacts. The challenge on the school side has also been centralisation in some municipalities, where the declining pupils are once again concentrated in a larger unit, but not as large as they may have been in a normal situation. Of course, it has been pleasant to hear that so many families have been able to make this decision. But it does not comfort those families who have not had this economic opportunity, Minister for Education. In this debate, I would also like to raise the issue of children in remote food education. For example, the municipality of Janakkala has introduced such a system for the distribution of lunch packages, in which families are given raw materials to prepare at home for two weeks of school meals. I would hope that this good practice could also spread across Finland. But I would like to hear a comment from Minister Li Andersson on how to deal with these families, who have not had the opportunity to take their own children home for economic reasons, out of these groups. What is your comment to them?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u4	Mr President! It is a good thing that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has now gone through this regulation quickly and, as it were, has identified the framework conditions for implementing such restrictions on fundamental rights. However, if you look at the report now — and if I have interpreted it correctly — then in fact this list of critical areas would have been possible if the criteria had been somewhat more careful. This raises the question of whether this list of critical areas is to be updated in case more stringent restrictions are needed in the coming weeks and months on who is entitled to contact education and who is not. Unfortunately, there are still a few things that remain open to us in the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy. One of them is that it is not home education that we have now gone to, but distance education. In other words, in a situation such as this, which our basic education law does not know, the responsibilities remain within which they operate. At the hearing, however, we understood that the responsibilities are limited to that legal responsibility, in other words, teachers can breathe from relief. Of course, it cannot be possible to monitor the conditions at home in the way it can be done at school, but the question of responsibility for the municipality is very important, and in this respect it would be interesting to hear whether there is any question in the Council of State as to whether this responsibility issue should be clarified in any way now that the pupils are mainly in distance education. Another outstanding issue that was not taken up in the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is the issue of student and study care. In this situation, as Mr Heinonen has already described, there are a lot of families there where there is certainly now a greater need for children and young people to take care of pupils and students. Perhaps it is all right not to impose too precise rules, as it were from a legislative point of view, on how it will be managed. But how it can be managed mainly at a distance so that children and young people still get the help they need is very important in this situation now, unfortunately, when we have a lot of families who need help and support. They must also have the right to do so in these exceptional circumstances. The third point that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has now drawn great attention to is the organisation of school meals and the provision of adequate food, which is also a constitutional right for us. Different practices have now been introduced in municipalities in organising school meals during this exceptional period. Perhaps we would now like to see some rapid clarification from the Government when the Constitutional Committee drew the attention of the Government to the need to take care of this in some way — I interpreted this committee’s report — how it is given to the municipalities and how precise the limits will be. It is, of course, quite clear that it is important to take into account the fact that if a meal is arranged, hygiene will be taken care of and not increase the risk of close contact. But then, on the other hand, it is also very important that when there are one or more children in the family — or even in single - parent families — there is a real need for that food. For too many children and young people, school food is the only warm meal of the day. One more question that has at least come up with a lot of questions for me. With regard to early childhood education fees, good and clear recommendations have been made to municipalities and the municipalities have set out to implement them, i.e. for children who do not participate in early childhood education in accordance with the recommendations, these unused days have already been fully promised in many municipalities. However, the same situation also applies to clubs and afternoon activities, especially clubs, of course, which are subject to fees, and there is still some confusion as to how to deal with them. Of course, it will again pose additional challenges to the next body, namely the organisers of clubs and afternoon activities. But then, when you look at the family side again, there is a similar situation to that of early childhood education fees, that is, when you do not use that service as it were, it is a very important money for many from an economic point of view, which will then be spent on, for example, the family's increased food costs. I understand that the Minister probably does not have an answer to all these specific points here and now, but I am sure that with time we will get an answer to them. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u5	Mr President! The Act of Preparedness has affected school work in Finland. Educational institutions and schools have moved to distance learning, which has brought about a considerable change in the lives of tens of thousands of families, schoolchildren and students. Teachers and principals are also in a new challenging situation when they have had to transfer teaching to the electronic world. Last Friday, I received a lot of contacts from teachers and principals, after the details of who were the first to third parties. The students in the class are those in close proximity education and who are in distance education. At short notice, the faculty had created conditions for electronic teaching without counting for hours and without sparing any effort. The announcement that they are not only responsible for distance education but also for local education, albeit for a smaller number of students, was a cause of dismay. The initial reaction was understandable. I'm sure the double shift didn't seem like a nice payday after all the trouble you've been through. The Act of Preparedness has never been put into practice before. It is humanly understandable that not all the details and the balanced consideration of different groups of people have been taken into account when regulating the law. We now have to correct these failings and the Constitutional Committee has done a good job. In this context, I would like to thank the Minister for Education, Mr Andersson, for very clearly encouraging parents to act responsibly and leaving their children in the field of distance education. In any case, for convenience, a child should not be sent to school, even though it would have been possible in the current framework for parents who do not work in critical areas. Mr President! School is not only a place for learning and providing warm food but also a place for working in a group and supported learning. While the most important thing in these exceptional circumstances is to safeguard the safety and health of citizens, it is also important that the right to learning is realised to all learners. As a former education professional, I would like to ask the following questions: How is education ensured for those learners who face learning challenges and who are unable to follow the written instructions given and who, under normal conditions, need support for their studies? The fate of young people leaving their primary school is also in my mind. Even this spring, more than ten thousand ninth graders should finish comprehensive school and in the autumn begin their studies at a secondary school. In order for studies to begin at the next school, primary school studies must be completed, which is marked by an emission certificate. This spring is historic for all groups of people, and if the state of emergency is extended for four weeks longer than planned, it will inevitably have consequences for the lives of schoolchildren. Not everyone has the same resources for independent study, and falling off the track is lurking around the corner. Has the Ministry of Education considered what specific targets are known to these students at risk of falling? Even under normal circumstances, we have a large number of young people who do not receive an emission certificate and therefore close many doors. Now, in a state of emergency, we must not leave these high-risk young people to their own devices. Mr President! I also have full confidence in the functioning of our school system under exceptional circumstances. It is clear that there will be some damage to learning, but with good planning and precision they will be minimised. I would like to wish Finnish teachers and all those working in schools the strength of their valuable work, what they are doing. I hope that the occupational health system and the working community will take care of teachers, principals and the entire school staff. Fatigue is to be expected when the crisis persists for months.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u6	Mr President! The Presence Act regulation on temporary restrictions on early childhood education and education has had a significant impact on the activities of schools and kindergartens. Last week was quite a bull in many schools, considering how to start distance teaching, and not knowing the number of children who come to contact education. Well, since the end of the week, it became clear that the regulation originally adopted and the position taken by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was inaccurate in these critical areas, which were mentioned, and now the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has again taken a position on it and this paragraph has been deleted from it. Of course, this change in the situation in schools was very unfortunate, as it was again necessary to consider how education would be arranged, and at this stage it was recommended that parents who did not necessarily have to put their children in contact education should keep the children at home. Most have done so, and fortunately the number of children has been controlled. In these critical areas, I would like to say that it is really important to be able to define the critical sectors and to clarify the regulation so that, as the epidemic progresses, it is still possible to define the critical sectors, because we know that there are areas for the rotation of our society — social welfare and health care, police, firefighters, border guards, merchants involved in the food supply, and so on — which would be very important, however, that we are able to provide day care for the children of workers in that situation, and also that they remain healthy and then do not get sick themselves, that they are able to do their important work. Another point that I would also like to draw attention to and what has been on the agenda here is school meals. Now we have the majority of children at home in remote education, and they also lack such regular contact with school, to attend school, and I am very concerned about the children who are now staying at home if that support is not sufficient, not educationally but not necessarily in other social conditions — they are little left there alone. That is why this school meal would have been good, too, so that there would have been a connection to the school — no matter how it is arranged, for example, in the form of a bag of lunches — and I would ask you to consider whether there is still some way to instruct the local authorities to act on the food issue at national level. After all, we have municipalities and cities that have taken this initiative on their own, but as long as there are no national guidelines, this practice is very varied. I hope that further attention will be paid to this issue. Otherwise, when this is prolonged, the epidemic will last longer, however, there may be a need for local education and school support, and there may be more demand for such things as day care in the future. At that point, it would also be important for critical sectors to be able to identify and refine them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u7	Mr President! Thank you for many good questions and comments, a little of this debate already took place yesterday in this Chamber. As far as this list or definition of critical sectors is concerned, I fully agree myself that it is absolutely necessary for this to happen in Finland. In a way, it was revealed here that such a deficiency in our national preparedness is evident when this has not been officially defined or by any official body anywhere. The Ministry of Education and Culture is not the body which, at the level of society as a whole, can determine which areas are critical in times of crisis, and that is why this preparation is now being carried out by the Prime Minister's Office. Mr Heinonen then asked how this change has now affected student numbers, for example. We are now trying to establish a national monitoring system in which, through regional government agencies, we are constantly informed of the number of children we have in early childhood education and basic education per week. At this stage, according to this week's data, about 26% of children would be in early childhood education and around 8% in the first and third categories. This national estimate is that there has been no major change compared to last week, but there may be local differences. So the guardians have also followed the recommendations and instructions that have been given. Then, in particular, regarding school meals and student care: The logic of this regulation is that it limits the responsibilities of the providers of education in the exceptional circumstances in which we are currently in, and it also applies, for example, to school meals and student care, for which this formulation, which has been used, is that the municipalities must organise them to the extent possible. The logic behind it is that there is also a desire to leave the municipalities room for discretion that, if the municipalities so wish, it is also possible to organise school meals for pupils in remote education, but I also call on the municipalities to consider the way in which it is done and for whom it is done. Yesterday we discussed the fact that in some municipalities such an opportunity has been offered to children under child protection and in other municipalities it has been done on the basis of the need for families being mapped out. If we had all the children in school every day who are otherwise at home studying at a distance, then this goal behind these drastic restrictions would not be achieved, but would in any case be created in connection with that school meal. There is a similar approach to student and student care, i.e. to the extent possible. This, too, leaves the municipalities with that possibility. Hopefully, the municipalities are also prepared to maintain student and student care services for young people. It is possible to arrange them remotely, by telephone. THL has also provided guidance on how to conduct a face-to-face consultation, such as consultation with a school psychologist, it is possible to arrange for it to follow these hygiene guidelines and rules. Last but not least, I am very pleased that there is so much concern in this Chamber about how our young people and children will cope during this exceptional period. It is quite clear that we must pay great attention now to the support for learning, especially after this period, so that we can ensure that all children and young people, if they so wish, also have access to further education on the scale necessary. In other words, we must go ahead with the best interests of the child and try as far as possible to ensure the welfare and equality of all children, even though unfortunately we are in a situation in which such unfortunate restrictive measures have to be taken in the interests of public health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u8	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The plenary session will be suspended for meetings of the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee and will be resumed at approximately 5.30 p.m. at the end of the committee meetings. All right, here's the rest of it. I cannot affect how many people are asked to speak. We have a draft law on restaurants at first reading this evening, and we should have the first reading and discussions closed by 24 hours. Otherwise, the sitting will have to be convened on Sunday instead of Saturday.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u9	Let us now continue the session that has been interrupted earlier today and let us now go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u10	Honorable Speaker, arade talman! Vi lever i verklogen exceptionella tider och det gäller i högsta grad också Bildningssektorn. Grundlagsutskottet har ju nu gett grönt ljus till förordningen om temporära begränsningar av scyldigheten att ordna småbarnspedagogik, utbildning och undervisning, vilket innebär att en stor del av undervisningen sker som distansundervisning. Vår uppgift är nu att godkänna den rai förordningen, och det ska vi naturligtvis göra. Det har variant en enorm kraftanstrunning för alla parter det ox: lärare, stader och kommuner, föräldrar och förstås eleverna och barnen. Att övergå från närundervisning i skolorna till distansundervisning är omtumlande för under. I detta sammanhang är det viktigt att poängtera att det handlar om distansundervisning, inte hemundervisning. Det auri är något som vi också poängterat i kulturutskottet. Vi har fortsättningsvis läroplikt, ansvaret ligger på utbildningsanardnarna och llarna, inte föräldrarna — som naturligtvis också har gjort ett fantastiskt jobb. Varje barn är unikt, behoven variantar. Skolan är för många barn deras trygga plats i vardagen. Av den orsaken är det viktigt att stödfunctionnerna, såsom elevård, fungerar så bra som vöjligt i rådande situation. Det får inte Heller uppstå en så kallad kunskapsskuld, så att vist barn lämnar effect i undervisningen med tanke på framtida studier, då vi övergård till en normal location senare. Lärarna om någon vet barnens situation. Ett stort tag till lärrana redan nu. Distansundervisningen kommer nog aldrig att kunna vasätta behovet av den fysiska kontakten med lärare och övrig undervisningspersonal i skolorna. Utmangarna med distansundervisningen finns, men med creatine lösningar finner man ofta en väg. I många fall har vi lärt oss mycket av den digitalala scolvardage den hårda vägen nu, aven om grundskoleundervisningslagstiftningen inte drunker till begrepet distansundervisning. Denna kris har redan lärt oss mycket. Det finns behov av att slå fast en lää på vilka de samhällskritiska branscherna är med tanke på framtida behov. Det ox ska vi inte behöva toka. Det är nu viktigt att ge tydliga instructioner till utbildningsanordnarna. Dessa Instrumentner måste vara öjliggörande, vi ska komma ihåg att ät tät att ordna undervisningen är oli ka kommuner. Det ska finnas öjlighet till creatineiva lösningar.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u11	Mr President! Finnish children and young people now attend secondary school from home. In this context, I would like to thank all the teachers who have stretched out on a fast-track basis to find creative solutions for teaching. The government has also been forced to act under severe time pressure and to correct the previous approach for the first- and third-year categories, because of the lack of precise definition of sectors that are critical to society. The problem was resolved by removing the reference to areas critical to the functioning of society. In its report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that it considers the timely correction of the provision it has identified to be appropriate. It is important that, even in exceptional circumstances, legislation is carefully implemented. I would therefore like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for its thorough work. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Government for their swift correction. Despite this change, families are recommended to have children at home in remote education, if possible, and the majority of families have also done so, and the number of pupils in schools has not increased significantly since the change. There is also a question of flexibility for employers that it is possible to reconcile teleworking with distance learning for children. Mr President! There has been much talk of digitalisation. It is now necessary to take concrete steps forward. Many teachers are fluent in remote tools and are in daily contact with their students — a fine example of this was described just now by representative Olliikainen. For others, electronic devices may be foreign, and communication may be on Wilma’s hands. Teachers, schools and municipalities still need support for this work. Mr President! Many in this Chamber have already stressed the importance of student care. We must ensure that students and students also receive the support they need in this exceptional situation. It is important that school curators and psychologists are easily accessible to children and young people. The lay-off of school assistants has been news of concern to the municipalities. They would need to be supported by distance learning. It is important to create viable models for this. It must also be remembered that home is not a safe place for everyone. Among other things, the Finnish Federation of Child Welfare has expressed concern that the number of clients in child welfare may increase due to the corona epidemic. For this reason too, it is important that teachers have daily contact with children and young people. New solutions are now needed to support children and young people. In addition to school psychologists and curators, it is now important to develop remote services for child protection and youth work. Many helplines have already made their operations more efficient. Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also draws attention to the fact that the regulation does not contain regulation on school meals. This has also been mentioned several times in this Chamber and it has been said that school food plays a major role in the well-being of children and young people. For far too many, it's the only warm meal of the day. Now municipalities are considering alternatives to providing food to children and young people who need it at a distance. In my hometown of Espoo, schoolchildren and students in distance education will be offered lunches from Monday to 30 March. Caretakers and students sign up for lunches in Wilma. Here too, it is important to share good practices among municipalities. The Ministry of Education, the Government and the municipalities are currently working shoulder-to-shoulder to secure and operate the services related to the education and well-being of children and young people. All my support for this job.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u12	Mr President! Thank you to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the valuable comments made in this report. The starting point is that everything is done to protect people, to prevent the spread of coronavirus infections, to avoid a threat to health and to life. One of the many ways of doing so, along with a number of other activities, is to impose restrictions on the activities of schools and educational institutions and to deviate from the responsibility of the organiser of education to implement the Basic Education Act. The restrictions provided for in the Regulation are, in part, a deep-rooted interference in fundamental rights. However, it has an acceptable objective to prevent the uncontrolled spread of the pandemic. I think it is a very good solution, which is also reflected in the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that the organiser of education should be given the opportunity to organise activities in the best possible way, taking into account local circumstances and the needs of pupils. I also appreciate the fact that there was no over-interpretation of school meals, but that this is being presented in a very sensible way. We must constantly remember what the focus is: we protect by limiting. At this point, mass distribution is always a risk and it is not wise for municipalities to force them into the same mold. President! The providers of education, but above all social services and child welfare, have the opportunity, if they think so, to provide food-related assistance to children, for example, whose daily food is threatened to fail. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also wisely states that the best interests of the child must be considered for individual children on a case-by-case and situation-by-case basis. That is well established. With regard to student care services, these activities have, of course, not been discontinued. In the name of realism, however, it is clear that action is limited and, in principle, managed, as is often the case under exceptional circumstances, by application and by means of what is possible. Special attention should be paid to ensuring the well-being of children and families with the educational services, including social welfare, health care and youth services. But it is clear that when the corona subsidises, there will be enough to reach out to both student care and learning and school support. It is also good to note that we have not, therefore, moved to home education but to distance education. The starting point is still that education is constitutionally provided by the education provider, not so-called home education under the responsibility of the guardians of the pupils. This means that compulsory education is still in force, as the Committee on Education has also stated in its report. President! The Constitutional Committee has done a good job in an unusual situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u13	Mr President! This implementing regulation has changed the daily lives of schoolchildren enormously. One point I would like to raise is the issue of school meals, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also drew attention to in its report. The father of the large family told me that their family’s food bill will be EUR 2000 higher in the summer than in the winter when all the children are away from school and eat all their meals at their own kitchen table. School food is important to all children. According to this regulation, which is essential in itself, school meals are carried out to the extent possible. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs states in its report that this leads to very different interpretations and methods of implementation across the country. We have heard examples of this. The Government has publicly limited that municipalities are not obliged to organise school meals for children studying at home. However, the municipalities can organise it at their own discretion. As Minister Andersson pointed out today, the arrangements must take account of the fact that it does not significantly increase the number of close contacts and therefore the risk of infection. The Education Committee notes that school meals are a very important part of the child’s food supply for many families and children, and also important for the family’s livelihood. Leaving away food can deepen the poverty of families with children. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the other hand, rightly drew attention today to the fact that the regulation implementing this Emergency Act does not include regulation on school meals. Free basic education also means adequate food. That is why the Constitutional Committee wishes to draw the Government's serious attention to this issue. The Government and the authorities should closely monitor the problems arising from the regulation. I'm worried there's gonna be trouble. The number of emergencies increases as exceptional circumstances persist. Isolation and narrowing of the habitat can increase mental health problems. The problems under the surface come just like the ones on the surface. I can't keep it under control. The walls are going down. One in seven children has lived in poverty so far. If this is accompanied by the possible lay-off of parents, unemployment or other difficulties caused by the corona crisis, the present problem is significant. When children study at home in distance education, they eat at home — if there is food. Not all children have the opportunity to have a healthy meal at home. It has been a pleasure to hear that in some localities food has been provided for children’s welfare customers and families as needed. School food is a significant support for families with children in our society. It may have become a little too obvious in our minds. Free school food is missing in many countries. It has been estimated that healthy school food can also explain good learning outcomes — to be able to concentrate and learn better when you are not hungry. In municipalities, it is worth finding a way to implement family support for food as well. Could it be food money, a lunch package, or harnessing a school canteen to make food for home delivery? There could be volunteers involved in transportation, for example. A lot of people want to help. Mr President! Although we live in exceptional circumstances, we must ensure that fundamental rights and human rights are realised. The Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities are also in force in exceptional circumstances. This means, for example, carrying out student care that has not been interrupted. Powers for all teachers, parents and student care workers for valuable work. There will also be plenty after this crisis. The Act on Preparedness restricts fundamental rights so that we can protect the precious lives of every neighbor.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u14	Mr President! Yesterday and today there has been a good debate on the state of education in these exceptional circumstances. In the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, we would like to see a clearer approach from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to, among other things, school meals and student care. Now, for example, the implementing regulation of the Emergency Act states that student care is only carried out to the extent possible. This is, in fact, quite problematic because it transfers a great deal of responsibility to municipalities, and we already know that there are big differences in student care between municipalities, and this also puts children and young people in a unequal position. I was also pleased that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs so emphatically advocated school meals, precisely so that sufficient food is included as an integral part of basic education free of charge. Now, too, there is a lot of responsibility on the part of the municipalities as to how it will be carried out sensibly so that infections can be avoided, but I believe that sensible measures can certainly be developed here, and the National Board of Education will certainly help. But it's really important that we stick to this. Yes, for many, that school meal is the only warm meal of the day, and if you have trouble at home anyway, it is even worse that you have to put up with the troubles of your stomach empty. Yesterday I myself stressed in my speech the impact assessment of children. We have had a lot of public debate that only afterwards can we know what the effects of these restrictions have been. But I think that we also need to assess these effects in advance: we need to comply with the agreement on the rights of the child at all times, we need to minimise the harmful effects on children. In fact, it is quite exciting that we are now talking about a regulation concerning tens of thousands of children and young people in this country, but where is the voice of children and young people? There has not been much of this in this debate, and an essential part of the assessment of the impact on children is also that the voice of children and young people is taken into account. Well, here the representatives have already pointed out that distance learning does not really mean that it is a home education for parents, and that we adhere to the Constitution in this sense and that it is in line with the curriculum. However, this situation also puts children and young people in a very unequal position as to how well parents can support distance education there at home. And finally, perhaps I will say: When Timo Heinonen made the first speech in this debate and was concerned about whether these percentages could be kept low in distance education, and what if it happens that when the situation continues, then we will put those elementary school students in there as if they were in day care despite this crisis situation. In my opinion, perhaps in a situation such as this, in which a family comes to such a decision for one reason or another, school is the best place for a child. In other words, in this debate we should remember that we have a lot of children for whom home is not a safe place, and then it may be that school is the best option. Even though we changed these settings, the percentages were still kept low, only 8 percent actually attended contact teaching early this week. I strongly believe that Finnish parents in all possible circumstances, even in difficult ones, are now doing everything in their power to overcome this crisis. But we must also admit that there are situations where contact education can be the safest place for that child.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to start a broader debate here, but since Mr Heinonen's name was mentioned, a one-minute response.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u16	Mr President! Mr Honkasalo, however, either by accident or deliberately misunderstood my speech quite a bit. I did not talk about those pupils who are special pupils or who have a situation in the home, that it is good that they are in school, but that we currently have a lot of families who, for economic reasons, are unable to stay home from day care for a small child or to care for a small school student at a distance. There are a lot of people who can handle it by telework, and then those who can afford it financially, but — Mr Honkasalo, I thought you understood that — we have so many low-income families that they will not get along if a mother or father has to stay home without pay with a small child. That's what I'm talking about. A lot of people are now being forced into that school, so to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u17	Back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u18	Mr President! The Korona epidemic and this exceptional crisis that has hit Finland and the whole world are, at the moment, trying and touching almost every person in this country. We have to legislate in an exceptional way, of which this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is a good example. Personally, I would like to thank both the preparatory officials of the Ministry of Education and the officials in this House as well as the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who have been hard hit by such extraordinary laws. Today, we have heard sad news that the corona virus in Finland has again claimed new victims — already three people have died of the diseases caused by this virus — and I would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims. This is the reason why these laws are made. We are now trying to do everything possible to prevent the spread of the virus, the spread of the virus and the slowing down of this disease. We are doing this because we are trying to protect lives. In its report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that the closure of day-care centres and educational institutions is at least to some extent an effective means of slowing down the spread of this dangerous disease. Now let's do everything we can. If experts and preparatory officials have been hard hit, then the workers in the municipalities, especially teachers who have had a very short period of time, have had to redefine their entire work on short notice, and the work that is being done throughout the Finnish municipalities at the moment deserves our deep gratitude. I agree with all the speeches that have been made in this Chamber calling for support for the work of teachers in this extremely difficult situation. As Members of the Committee on Culture have said here in particular, it is important to bear in mind that compulsory education is still in force. Every child and young person in this country still has compulsory education, still has the right to study. We do not move to home schools — the responsibility for organising education, teaching still lies with municipalities, still with schools, still with teachers. For this reason, I also think it is right to leave a certain amount of flexibility to the field, so that there is reflection and that we can also look at these situations individually. It's not always best known in this house when it comes to individuals. I would also like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for paying particular attention to international human rights agreements in this exceptional situation. However difficult the situation is, we cannot slip away from the international obligations that we are bound to and which we are committed to, and especially when we talk about matters relating to children and young people, we are bound by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. A child’s advantage is something that can never be ignored, no matter what the condition in society. That is why I am pleased that so many Members have drawn attention in their speeches to the fact that, especially in exceptional circumstances, too often the best interests of the child and its attention are lost to the fact that, although we would like to think that home is always the best place, it is not always the safest place for children, and even in such situations of crisis, there can be difficulties and difficult situations in homes where everything has been well in the past. We also know from international examples that corona measures have put pressure on child protection, have caused tragedies in homes. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media also drew particular attention to this in its own opinion. Perhaps in conclusion, however, that this epidemic cannot be prevented by the measures of the Government alone; it cannot be prevented by the actions of the Parliament alone; it is an epidemic that must be prevented everywhere in Finland; it needs all Finns to do so; and therefore I would like to thank all those people who are currently working as volunteers, in schools and in hospitals for our ability to save lives and at the same time to take care of children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u19	Mr President! The minister is not here, he was in the day but is now blocked. I would have liked to ask him about this definition of critical areas and its timetable. I believe that it should be completed as quickly as possible, because there may be a moment when we need it quickly — if the number of pupils in schools starts to grow and schools are bulging students, then it must be tackled immediately. We are taking very drastic measures, perhaps closing the Uusimaa, and restaurants and bars are being closed, and then if these students start to be full of schools, it will water down these other measures. Then, in this exceptional situation, I would like to reassure the parents a little and remind them that they give themselves a little mercy, because, as has been said here, remote school is different from home school. At present, many pupils are in remote school, and the teacher is responsible for the implementation of the curriculum. Parents do not need to learn more than before. It is absolutely certain that our truly professional teachers will do so, as long as parents only remember to act and support these children in their studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u20	Mr President! We in Finland have the strength to support us at the time of the crisis, and it is Finnish teachers who are highly educated professionals who, even under normal conditions, plan and carry out education very flexibly as the best independent professionals for our children and young people. This strength now holds out under exceptional circumstances. In other words, the extensive pedagogical autonomy and skills of teachers, a high level of education, will help when teaching is really needed very quickly in very special circumstances to be transferred to remote teaching. There are messages from all over the country, how skillful teachers and backup shark breeders are, how creative, resourceful, professional they are and how committed they are at the moment in their long days. The cooperation between home and school is now unpredictable, and many parents have told us that appreciation for teachers has risen. Positively, we can see that something will certainly be learned from this crisis, even if no one would have wanted such a learning experience. The tutoring activities and extensive development programmes for digital learning launched during the last government term have been an important, unexpected resource now. Municipalities who are responsible for organising education have been hard at the time of delay and change of national guidelines. I understand very well that it has been a frustrating and extra strain on the municipalities. Fortunately, this weekend, Minister Andersson's message finally reached the families well. However, I would like to say that many of the teachers in the first and third classes are currently providing distance and local education at the same time, and everyone understands that this is almost an impossible task. That too has been very well dealt with, based on the messages we have received. It is honest to say that equal opportunities and rights to learning will not be realised this spring. Parents have very different opportunities to support their children’s distance learning and, for example, maintain a normal rhythm in everyday life. As the situation persists, the government must be prepared to provide additional resources for schools and additional support for pupils, at the latest at the point of catching up to what has been lost in these weeks. Student care shows an increase in anxiety and fears that children and adolescents may not have sufficient support at home to deal with. This is also a crisis situation on that spiritual side. I have even received a message from the teachers that they are not all able to get in touch with all their students at a distance, which is, of course, a big alarm signal. There is a burden on pollution protection when the sheet does not work normally and early support services have had to be closed in some places. Organisations active in child welfare have expressed concern about the survival of families with underprivileged children, the increased use of domestic and intimate violence and substance abuse, the deepening of parents' mental problems and exhaustion, and the growing problems of relationships and the worsening of custody and meeting disputes. These are the messages that we must take seriously in Parliament, and we must also be able to protect children under exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u21	Mr President! The most important thing is to ensure the safety of teachers and children and young people, their health, as this epidemic or pandemic progresses, and the better we can do this, the better we will have in this country. That is why there is distance education, which is why schools are closed, except now for the first and third classes and pupils who need special support as defined by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. If there is no way for parents to have children at home because of their own work situation — first of all these critical professions, but now they are excluded — then the child can be taken to school, a first-class student or a student requiring special support, but a strong recommendation and message is that they should be kept at home, treated at home and supported in learning there. This was also expressed by Minister Andersson at the weekend with a good and strong message. I myself follow pretty closely what this home school is like when you teach a class and at the same time take care of a first- and third-grade and day-care-age child. Teachers' work is very demanding, and at least in my locality, the educational activity has been very good at managing how teachers can talk to each other, act on the basis of different teaching methods through Wilma, Teams and WhatsApp — different online applications and programs that are available — and the innovativeness of teachers is very good in Finland from such a close point of view. Finnish teacher training is good. Teachers' work is demanding, but now parents are also required much more, and it is clear that not all parents have the capacity to provide similar support to their children. That is why the mercy that has been shown here in the debate must also be given, and in particular support for the teacher to be able to provide that distance teaching. And not all situations at home are the same. It may be that school food is the only warm meal a child gets a day, and that is why it is good that attention has now been paid to this too. All in all, I just want to say that there are exceptional circumstances. This means that we are in an area of discomfort, and it means that the situation is special and requires stretching both at home and a little in every profession at the moment. I just want to say with my own message that we are taking this situation extremely seriously. At the end of the day: when this acute crisis comes to an end, it is certain that we decision-makers, the whole of society, will have a great deal of work ahead of us in catching up with all that is now coming at us in these exceptional times, but we will get through this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u22	Mr President! As chairman of the Committee on Culture, I thought I should say a few words about what the Committee on Education and Rural Development has thought about this regulation. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Citizens' Rights considers that the current regulation amending the Government regulation on temporary restrictions on the obligation to organise early childhood education and training to be very necessary, since it removes the scope for interpretation in Article 3(4) of the regulation as regards the definition of critical occupational groups, to which the Committee on Education and Culture already drew attention in its opinion last week. However, the committee recognises the need to define these critical areas and considers it important that, in the future, the critical sectors of society continue to be assessed and defined with sufficient precision. It's good for the future. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs attaches great importance to doing everything possible to protect people against the spread of corona virus infections. This also lays down requirements for teaching in schools where children and school staff interact with each other. That is why the committee considers it necessary to implement the regulation and its measures. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs notes that the explanatory memorandum of the regulation deals with the possibility of restricting the possibility of infection, but considers that it would have been necessary to provide an assessment in the explanatory memorandum of how the possibilities provided for in the regulation for teachers to limit the provision of free education services are necessary to ensure the necessary education services, as required by Article 109(2) of the Emergency Act. In this context, the committee refers to its comments on school dinner and student care services in its last week's opinion to the Constitutional Committee. That is what this report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is now taking a stand on, but only on the subject of school meals, not student care. I will come back to this later. Restrictions on the provision of education services are laid down in the regulation in question, allowing the provider of education to make certain exceptions to the organisation of education as defined in the Regulation by its own decision. However, these restrictions do not apply to pre-school education and basic education from 1 to 3. pupils in grades of years and not pupils who have a decision on special support or who are subject to extended compulsory education. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers it a good solution for the regulation to enable teachers to organise their activities in the best possible way, taking into account local circumstances and the needs of pupils. It is important that the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Finnish National Board of Education provide the necessary guidance and support for local decision-making. The Education Committee draws attention to the fact that, under the Regulation or under this exceptional circumstances, the teaching of pupils who move to distance education at the initiative of their parents is education provided by the organiser of education in accordance with the Basic Education Act, not so-called home education under the responsibility of the pupils' guardians. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs stresses that compulsory education is also in force under these exceptional circumstances. Teachers must inform their guardians enough to be aware of the educational arrangements for exceptional circumstances. It is important that families are instructed to report to the school on staying at the student’s home at a distance so that the school can take this into account in the organisation of education and in the monitoring of pupils’ absences. The Education Committee stresses that the organisation of distance education in basic education is a new issue, as this is not provided for in the Basic Education Act. In schools, a variety of solutions have been put in place with the help of skilled teachers and other staff to implement distance learning, and the Committee considers it important that the experience gained from this be actively monitored and that information on good practice be disseminated to everyone. The Committee on Education considers it essential that pupils and their guardians who are in remote education also receive the support they need to continue learning children as well as possible in their home circumstances. Special attention should be paid to ensuring the well-being of children and families with education, social welfare and health services and youth services. Similarly, the Committee on Education stresses the need to ensure that pupils are able to achieve a normalisation of the situation of adequate learning and schooling support. The committee stresses that the providers of education encourage all families who are at all able to take their children home to remote education in this exceptional situation, if at all possible. The exceptional situation and the way out of it require a concerted effort by all. This was our unanimous opinion, and I will come back a little later when, in that report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I have been thinking about two points, one of which has been taken on board, and the other not. I'll get back to them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u23	Irade the Talman! Vi har nu i en dryg vecka levt i exceptionella omstandigheter och våra skolor har arbetat under exceptionella förhållanden, som har satt ganska stor press på både våra barn och våra lärare. Och det har gått bra, vågar jag påstå, mycket tag vare våra lärares exceptionella pedagogiska färdigheter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u24	Mr President! This report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs deals with whether or not it could be said that the legislation adopted last week, but which is now being ex-postly removed, is a restriction on the obligation to organise education, these conditions for parents to act in areas that are critical to the functioning of society. That is why it was concluded that there is no other way in which legislation defines what these critical sectors of society are, and so from the point of view of the Constitution, this would put children in an unequal position in terms of equality, and that is why this has come to an end. What is important is that the Prime Minister's Office, as I heard, now prepares this list, because it is important to have such a list and it is important that, if we have these situations in the future, we know in advance what these professions will then be considered critical of society. In this situation, of course, not only must we be grateful to the teachers who have had this distance education well started, even in this situation, where they have quickly had to take note, for example, of the fact that the number of pupils present today is increasing, and they have been able to do so, but we must also thank the parents for having made these remote education conditions work at home, and, on the other hand, that, despite this delimitation, this number of pupils has not increased much, at least to the extent that perhaps little was feared. In that sense, however, this has gone some way to keeping the students there in remote education and thereby reducing the risk of these encounters in the school world. Indeed, the Committee on Education has drawn attention in its own opinion to the availability of school food and, above all, to the way in which this child, who may have special needs, which may be due to that family background, may then be affected by this distance learning pathway. In this context, although there is no debate as to how the government programme might be implemented in the future, I would like to say, however, that it is important that, when this period, this crisis period, is over, we take particular care of the way in which these special needs children, on the one hand, and children, on the other hand, who have certainly had their own challenges in this distance education with learning, will be able to ensure that they receive the support they need for the continuation of that school path. In that sense, it would now be necessary to have all the money that may have been thought of for the categorical extension of compulsory education used specifically now to get this normal school path back to us at some point and to ensure that all children have those opportunities for learning and that they are supported by their way of learning and that their special needs are taken into account. In that sense, you could say, as a fellow Member has already said, that perhaps there has also been some kind of acceleration of the digital leap, or at least the taking over of these different learning tools in a way that we probably did not want, but it has also proved that there is still development on this side of school education. I am sure that this will work in its own way in the direction of paying greater attention to these opportunities for distance learning in schools and, certainly, in the future, it will be possible to update the equipment and different approaches. All in all, it must be said that this period of time in many homes has certainly brought such appreciation and understanding to the teacher’s work that, in that school class, working with many students and students of many levels requires special abilities and skills. Perhaps it could be said that we will return to the time when school teachers were once the candles of the village that were then valued in many ways, and I believe that during this time in Finland the appreciation of the teacher's work has also experienced a certain renaissance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u25	Mr President! Indeed, in recent days the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has sat down for intense hours, long hours and days, and this proposal relating to early childhood education and education, and the specific involvement of parents in critical areas of society, prompted much debate. Now this new presentation then came and this kind of definition was withdrawn. I myself was rather surprised at this matter and some other things, when we have been informed and convinced from the outset that in Finland we are well prepared for different situations and acute needs. For example, such a list or list of jobs or activities that would be critical to the functioning of society we do not have ready, and many other things that have now come to light in connection with these exceptional circumstances and the Emergency Act have certainly been amazed that we only have as much as we do in the starting pits. You would have liked us to have, as it were, in that dresser, in a box with trunks ready to be introduced more quickly. But all in all, a big thank you to our brilliant teachers. Even during this time they have really done a wonderful job and used creativity, discovered ways. If we have been able to be proud of our teachers, our school system, in the past as we travel around the world, somehow during this period of effort that we have now had at hand, our teachers are worthy of a great deal of feeling. They have shown that they have creativity and they have enthusiasm and they have a great heart, including in situations like this, to come up with ways and take into account students and those small children, early childhood education and sub-classes, in an incredible way. That I'm grateful to the teachers for that, and I hope you're all right. Of course, when this decree came, the suggestion that they could go to school now for all the underclasses and so on, I was startled by the news, because then the impression came that now the doors would open back there. Fortunately, however, much of the parents, as we have heard from the educational sector in that committee, have kept their children at home, have understood the seriousness of the situation. This way I would really see that it should be that all possible stones and stumps would have to be turned around by parents and loved ones so that those children could stay at home in remote education. However, we have such a serious situation with this corona virus epidemic that every effort must be made to find every means to keep the children at home in remote education. And, as I said in one of the interviews myself, quite a few of our age groups have probably started their career as a child, so that even a little older schoolchildren may be able to help with a few hours of that lower grader and help in that way or by students or so on. I would also like to have the courage of parents to raise these issues, challenges, and ask for help. But then one thing I would like to raise, and I also raised in committee, is that now that the students are at home in remote education, some of them go to the school, the groups have been brought together. And the message has come from the field that in early childhood education as well as in lower grades, these groups can suddenly be very large. In this respect, I would like to appeal to the fact that we have had these recommendations in relation to exceptional circumstances, the preparedness law, that the group of 10 people should be the largest, preferably even smaller, but certainly not the bigger one, that this should also be observed in school conditions, that it would not be the case that there are now very close groups that are much larger. Then yes, if we think about these possible transmission chains — and especially if such critical areas of parents there are — it can happen that the parents carrying the virus give it to the children who do not get sick, but there the children give it to each other, and then take it home, and all we can have in a certain area many who then get sick at the same time. In other words, the groups and these means — I would also ask the school to take this matter into account. But thanks again to the schools. I believe that with good cooperation and when everyone makes their own contribution, Finland will survive. Apart from making a big digital leap, I hope there will be new ways and that community and neighbourly assistance and each other's help and support here. Hopefully, then, it will continue to be an important part of our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u26	Mr President! There are exceptional conditions in Finland, which are now also visible in the everyday life of schools — that is how it is. My eight-year-old godfather, Aleksi, had looked very closely at the government press conference on this regulation a week ago and wondered how it would affect him. As a result of the epidemic of interest rates, the majority of schoolchildren have now moved to remote education with this regulation. Compulsory education is still in force, but the teaching environment was revolutionized, and even children now see it in their everyday lives. It must now be remembered that this regulation is only part of legislation under exceptional circumstances. This is not ordinary legislation, but an exceptional regime adopted in the wake of this tragic crisis, which must have an absolute deadline. Last Friday's fears that children would rush to school as a result of the amendments to this regulation, or as a result of the correction, turned out to be, luckily, the day before yesterday: as the Minister said today in the Chamber, about 8% of young children, under the third grade, are in school, so there has been no significant increase in numbers. The regulation was amended on Friday, because the vague definition of critical areas could not be considered legally sufficient — and this is the case that the list that is updated on the website, which is behind the website, is not a very legal document. It is important to have a sustainable list of legal review for the future soon, just as the Committee on Culture has said on this matter. It is clear that the social significance and cooperation of the work of teachers and school staff will now become visible, whether it be early childhood education or primary school or any of the cultural players. I get a lot of feedback from teachers who are afraid of children coming to school or kindergarten because of the risk of infection. At the same time, I get a lot of feedback from parents who are afraid to put a child in school or kindergarten in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u29	Mr President! In this fight against the corona, this invisible, miserable virus, the effects are visible in all of us in everyday life, in other ways, in other ways. It is important, however, that the amendment to the Government regulation at this stage of the debate removes the scope for interpretation, because it is certainly not a small matter. I was familiar with the numbers we currently have in comprehensive school, for example. We have 564100 students in comprehensive school, and if you look at my region, North Ostrobothnia, there are about 10 per cent of them, less than 54,000 children. Last autumn, more than 11 per cent of these comprehensive school pupils received intensified support, i.e. closer to 60,000 children and more than a thousand of them received special support. So it is a really big issue that affects our children and young people and a lot of families, and in that sense the house-to-home economies are also facing a whole new issue. Last week we have been used to distance teaching and teleworking and remote support and a wide range of remote issues. Hopefully, families have also had the resources and the capacity to be present and to support parenthood. Indeed, this affects many municipalities, because, as we know, the majority of primary schools, 95%, are schools run by municipalities, and it is important that this margin of interpretation is now abolished. Compulsory education is maintained, and even if there are exceptional circumstances, the responsibility for organising is in many respects the responsibility of the municipality. When the municipality has responsibility for organising the school, the municipality also has responsibility for organising and the responsibility under the Basic Education Act to allow the student to study in a safe environment
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u32	Mr President! As has been said several times in this Chamber, we are now living in the middle of a completely exceptional time and this time will certainly have a special impact on the future of children and young people. Where an adult may feel like a blink of an eye for a few months, it is surprisingly long for the child and especially for the child to learn. It is a time when a child can learn to read or write, for example. In other words, we are talking about things that are extremely important for children's lives and for the future as a whole. That is why it has been great to see that both officials and representatives have taken time to deal with this issue and have indeed jointly paid attention to the realisation of children's rights, because, as has already been emphasised many times in this Chamber, the Convention on the Rights of the Child also applies in exceptional circumstances, in fact in exceptional circumstances. It is partly because, during a war or other emergency, children’s rights are adhered to as well as possible. Now we really need everyone's support and work to do as well as we can. The thanks are due both to members of the teaching staff of the municipalities and to parents who have made this situation easier and have made it possible for children and young people to learn at home. At the same time, there is a real need to worry about what this situation will do to the future of children and young people. It is true that THL estimates that the epidemic peak will only occur sometime around May/June, so it may well be that the children will go to the end of the school year during these exceptional times and will have to study completely at a distance. That is why it is so important that both teaching and support measures are invested in. It is therefore extremely worrying that, because of financial concerns, many municipalities have now decided to lay off school assistants, for example, or, on the one hand, curators, school psychologists, those professionals who now have an increasingly important responsibility to take care of children and young people in particular, especially those children and young people who, unfortunately, may even be in danger of having a home, children and young people who really need to have contact with even one reliable, familiar adult. That is why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to the fact that the Emergency Act now confers exceptional powers on the municipality, but these powers should only be exercised when no other means are available. For example, if a school nurse has to take care of corona patients, it is perfectly understandable, and this can be done if no other solution helps. It is true, however, that even under these circumstances, for example, the school curator should not be laid off. These exceptional circumstances do not give rise to any legal back-up for moving all the important support staff away from their duties. While this is being said in this Chamber, we must now support the municipalities so that all this work can actually be done carefully. We cannot oblige municipalities to deal with this situation in a exemplary manner unless we ensure that the resources are really sufficient in their everyday lives at that municipal level. Many municipalities have already been in a difficult situation before this and are now facing an increasingly difficult situation. It is therefore important that the Government has paid attention to the condition of the municipalities and strives to bring the financial package to the municipalities as soon as possible. That is the only way we can really make sure that the municipalities do not have to lay off those everyday professionals who care for children and young people and thus parents in these difficult times. At the same time, it is important to take care of the resources of the organisations. We know that organisations are doing quite a pioneering job just in such remote services, in helpable telephones, in chat services, in landing on social media platforms, and it is therefore important to ensure that they also receive state aid, if necessary, for the expansion of their activities. No one must be left alone now with their worries, sorrows or anxiety, no one must be left alone with their learning difficulties, and it is ultimately up to us at state level to ensure that the resources are sufficient, that the competences are sufficient, and now we really measure how Finland takes care of children's rights. Economic solutions must therefore go hand in hand with the granting of these powers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u33	Mr President! This debate has rightly praised and even praised our great comprehensive school and our skilled, skilled teachers. They even work hard at a normal time and now work exceptionally hard at a time like this. However, I think that Mr Kempp has pointed out the side that has been overlooked in this Chamber, the great burden that is currently on the shoulders of teachers, but also what I said earlier in the debate, namely a teacher's message, in which he said that we still have early childhood education and basic education from 1 to 3 p.m. In the class, teachers and early-school teachers who provide local education continue to operate and are exposed to numerous contacts every day without protective equipment. And he said that Tampere also has 850 children every day, some of whom are in schools in purely day care because of the family situation. In this debate, I think it is too little attention to the fact that quite a few of these children are under duress at school. I understand that it has been pointed out in this debate that there are some families and situations where it is good that the child is there at school and that he can also get out of his home at a serious time like this. I asked Mr Andersson this question at that earlier stage of the debate when he was still here in Parliament, and he replied and listed only the percentages of these children. But when, behind every percent, the government, there are really small children. Minister Andersson said that at school from 1 to 3 p.m. about 8 per cent of the students in the class. If we have an age of about 50,000, there are more than ten thousand children in school at the moment. Early childhood education accounts for about 26%, which means that it is an even larger number of small children who are currently in day care — the majority, in fact, because they currently have no other choice. Parents work critically and cannot be with their children in charge of day care for young children or taking care of remote education in the home,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, there are now only three requests to speak on the list. At the same time, this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has been produced, and I would not like to have to interrupt this sitting now, although this is a matter of urgency. Let us try to keep these remaining speeches succinct. — Representative Eskelinen sets an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u37	Mr President! We now have two days of thanks shared and on the subject. Here in particular, I should like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs for their excellent report and comments. But the greatest thanks are due to the Finnish education system and to teachers and parents for the ability to organise everyday life and teaching in exceptional circumstances. Of course, challenges have arisen, both with the increasing workload of teachers, with the provision of support services, with student care and with the full support of the children and families who need it most. In addition, responsibility is also needed among our young people, and it seems to be possible to find it when I follow the school’s daily life through my own children. Images of food rations and cleaning have been taken, and in addition to teaching, young people have also been guided to many other everyday activities in addition to schoolwork. During this process, perhaps the greatest confusion was caused by these successive changing guidelines for the first and third graders. But the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' comments on equal access to basic education were quite correct. This has also been a good exercise in teleworking, distance teaching and digitalization, which will surely benefit us from future education, the school world and learning environments — and hopefully also here in the house. Parents have also arranged families’ daily lives very quickly, and for that, thank you very much for the homes there. This is illustrated by the fact that in many cities, for example, in early childhood education, more than 80 percent of children are already at home. This has meant, for example, in my home town of Joensuu that we are facing a reassessment of the work of more than 500 day care workers, and, unfortunately, these pressures on the local government finances in relation to these solutions will also have to be taken into account during the crisis. There is probably concern in every speech about the possibility of school meals for those who need it. And with the comments of the committees, as was heard today, in Espoo, for example, and in Joensuu, we are in the process of organising the matter very quickly. School meals are extremely important for the well-being of many families.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u38	Irade the Talman! It has been a pleasure to hear that children's rights have been at the heart of the debate today. Of course, it is indeed a challenge to assess such a conflict of rights, which is of course particularly serious in exceptional circumstances, and I wonder what circumstances really justify restricting the fundamental rights of children, and I think that it is worth considering it in the future. I myself have wondered whether the temporary closure of schools or the restriction of teaching was such a necessary measure in Article 23 of the Constitution, in order to maintain the functioning of our health system or in order to protect the lives and health of others — we have not talked about protecting children’s lives, but about protecting other people. History may give us an answer to this. It's impossible to know exactly what's right. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has thus assessed and I shall confine myself to that. The Committee on Education also advocates, for example, the possibility of distance learning and the maintenance of compulsory education. That's good. What is important is that the Constitutional Committee has now decreed that small children can be taken to school when the family or society needs this. The right of children to education is sought by means of distance education. Even the fact that it succeeds remains a matter of history. At the same time, however, we know that children have very different opportunities for support and peace in order to succeed in their studies. Also, not all children have the strength or ability to work independently, and school difficulties can deepen. In addition to securing school food, school can be the place for many where the child feels safe and where his studies and development receive the support he needs. In times of crisis, emergency conditions would be important to provide children with as normal routines as possible and their normal environment should be maintained for as long as possible. Children experience our adult anxiety and fear of the future, and the closure of a normal school is also a serious test of the child’s sense of safety. In general, in times of crisis in the world, in conflicts, in natural disasters, in famine, we have learned that children's schooling and in school, in participation in the community is the last thing we need to give up. It is important that this temporaryity, which we have now created, is as short as possible and that we can return to contact education for children as soon as possible. Particular attention and concern about the possibilities of student care for children and young people, and children's rights must also be a priority in this evaluation. Fortunately for us, Mr President, in this accident — the ‘touroture’ is termed Swedish — this infection is expected to occur with the stability of its children. Of course, this does not mean that caution or prevention is not important for children too. The ability of adults, teachers and parents should also be supported in the interests of children's safety, and, for example, support for a low threshold, as well as access to mental health services, should now be given special attention in municipalities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-33.u39	Mr President! As I said in the opinion of the committee,the Committee stated: ‘The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs stated that the explanatory memorandum of the regulation deals with the possibility of restricting access to education in order to prevent this problem,but considers that it had been necessary to provide an assessment In this context, the committee refers to its comments on the school meal and student care services in its opinion to the Constitutional Committee.’ It is a very good thing that the Constitutional Committee took a position on this school meal, and this is what the report says: ‘However, the Constitutional Law Committee is still paying attention to the regulatory part of basic education that does not include regulation on school meals. Free basic education, in line with the position adopted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the context of the reform of fundamental rights, also means adequate food. The committee will pay serious attention to this matter. According to the Constitutional Committee, the Government must closely monitor the fulfilment of the conditions for the application of the Emergency Act and the powers provided for in it and any problems that may arise in applying it." It was very good. On the other hand, the Constitutional Committee did not take a position on this subject, but I would just like to say what the Committee on Education stated in its first opinion: ‘The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers that it is justified that the obligation to organise student and student care is limited to the extent and types of activities such as exceptional circumstances may provide an opportunity to implement,but it is important to focus attention on the targeting and targeting of the restriction. The Preparatory Act does not specifically refer to the Student and Student Care Act, which is probably due to the fact that, at the time of the adoption of the Emergency Act, the provision of education services was not provided for in the legislation on social welfare and health care, nor has the changed legislation been taken into account in the Emergency Act. In addition, the committee notes that the scope for limiting the scope of the current regulation on the provision of education services seems to be limited to basic education and to the competence of the organiser of education under the Basic Education Act. The Student and Student Care Act, on the other hand, also applies to upper secondary schools and vocational education.” That is why the Committee on Education thought it was so important that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also looked at this issue. However, the Constitutional Committee did not do this, and this is of course a little bad, but I am confident that this will be done, as the Committee on Education also stresses that ‘in exceptional circumstances, even when there is a lack of education, the obligation of education and training providers to protect children will, if necessary, contact the institution responsible for social services if the criteria are met’. And in this context, I would like to highlight the debate that took place in the Committee on Education and Rural Development and what I personally believe is that, in accordance with the Social Welfare Act, we always have these measures for child protection, and then we must remember that we offer these services, even if there are exceptional circumstances, to the extent necessary. Then I would also remind you that children may be very afraid of this situation and that not all children may be able to tell it, that is, even if we are there in remote education, it would always be remembered that there may be a child who is very confused about this situation so that we would always remember as parents and also remember as educators there at home to create it for the child. And at the moment, under exceptional circumstances, families there may also be very confused and distressed, afraid of the future, and unfortunately it is often passed on to children. That is why we will need these support services for children and young people in the municipality and that they are — even if there are exceptional circumstances — to be put to use on the low threshold, and that, in remote education too, teachers, as much as there is the job, would take little account of the fact that if there were some snowfalls or if there started to appear to be a problem at a distance, then there would be a social worker on the low threshold, for example. But thank you to all the members of the committee, including the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for this has been progressing smoothly and we have had very good discussions. And above all, of course, thanks to schools and teachers and other staff as a whole for their flexibility and tournament endurance, we still need it from now on. Of course, thanks also to the parents, to the guardians, for the fact that we have made quite good progress here, but we have to take note that this is not all, we have a long way to go. — — — — Thank you.
