ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-18-ps-115.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. Before we start talking, I would ask to be allowed to point out the security intervals in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-18-ps-115.u2	Mr President! The Library of Parliament serves the Parliament and the whole Finnish society. The library was founded in 1872. The Library of Parliament acts as the central archive of Parliament and as a central library for the provision of public legal information, social information and parliamentary information. The library is open to all. Last year was somewhat out of the ordinary in the operations of the Parliamentary Library. After the elections, the library will familiarise and train new MPs and their assistants for the library services. The number of picture loans will also increase traditionally during the election year. Due to the election year, the number of laws prepared in Parliament was small. This was reflected, for example, in the number of information packages published by the library. Five of them were published in the reporting year. In summer 2019 the library was closed to external customers due to construction work for three months. The service was possible in limited temporary facilities. This was evident naturally in the number of visitors. On the other hand, there were more visitors relative to opening hours than in years. Network and telephone services are functioning normally. As a result of the renovation, a customer safety check was introduced. This gave rise to some discussion and reflection. The change had to be made for safety reasons. It has not been found to interfere with the normal use of the library. The security aspect is understood. The summer 2019 experiences proved valuable this spring. The library also had to make exceptional arrangements because of the corona pandemic. Access to open and reliable information was promoted through the decision-making information support project. The information support project will proceed in the course of this year to the selection and launch of further development projects. The introduction of the new library system, Alma, was prepared for 2020. At the end of the operating year, the library took over the maintenance of Parliament's online and visual magazines. In the information service, the number of orders remained on level with the previous year. The number was 1399. Some assignments employ for several hours or even days. The most employable project in the Parliamentary Archives related to the tendering and procurement of the case management system. The take-up will take place in 2020. Over 100,000 pages of documents and records were photographed on microfilm during the year. Lectures, book publishing and writer meetings were held at the Library of Parliament. There was cooperation with the Central Library Oodi. Events give the library services visibility and bring new users to the library. Ten interviews were conducted with Veteran MPs. At the end of the year, researchers had 437 interviews. Mr President! Library users are satisfied with the service they have received. Customer feedback in user surveys is commendable. At the end of the reporting year, 36 people worked in the library. I would like to thank the staff, the head of the library and the board of the library for the valuable work you have done for democracy and open information. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-18-ps-115.u3	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Kiuru for a clear presentation and to the staff of the Library of Parliament for a good annual report. Libraries are important promoters of civilisation and well-being in our country. The importance of the tasks of libraries as a responsible and independent information service provider is only emphasised by the increase in disinformation and information impact. As a Member of Parliament for the first term, I particularly appreciate the information packages of legal projects made by the Library of Parliament, which represent larger entities, a big picture. When we look at the details as part of a larger picture, we can make wise and far-reaching decisions. Due to the election year, the number of legislative projects prepared in Parliament was lower last year. As a result, five new information packages for legal projects were also published, as we heard, including on family leave reform and copyright law reform. Historical and social information packages are also important. Four of them were published, such as the struggle for a form of government between 1918 and 1919 and the formation of a government. These information packages are actively used by experts in various fields and by members of our committees. I welcome the fact that the development of the content of the information packages has been recorded as one of the key elements of the library's service strategy. I hope that the various educational institutions and the teachers of social studies and knowledge will also find these information packages better in the future. This would strengthen cooperation between the Library of Parliament and schools serving all Finns. Decision-making should be based on studied and weighed data. Academic research is sometimes difficult to use directly in decision-making. There is a need to compile and structure the essential information about the Library of Parliament and the Information Service. In this regard, the Library of Parliament could work more closely with researchers. The universities have also said this. This week we visited the University of Helsinki with the strength of the Civilization Committee. Universities attach importance to their social role. Many researchers have a desire to clarify their own research results in the form they use in decision-making. This is a clear place for cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-18-ps-115.u4	Mr President! First of all, thank Mr Kiuru for his comprehensive and interesting presentation. Indeed, the Library of Parliament is unique in many ways. For example, as a research library, the Library of Parliament is unparalleled, and you can hear feedback and praise about this very often. The information service includes researchers, public sector experts, media representatives, lawyers, students and other people who want information. Many kinds of training, events, information attacks, exhibitions and cooperation with different bodies organised by the library are also worthy of praise. When it comes to the library, you cannot ignore something that you can never talk too much about, and I am talking about literacy. Libraries continue to play a key role in our society in maintaining literacy. After all, Finland is used to being at the forefront of literacy studies. Finnish young people have excelled at their high level of competence in all student groups. At the same time, however, there has been an increase in the number of poor readers and the level of literacy among people under the age of 25 has declined in ten years. Strong literacy takes us a long way, and the foundation for its development is already being created as a child. Literacy should also be maintained and developed throughout life, and libraries play a key role here, including the Library of Parliament. And even though many of Parliament’s libraries have found, it would be possible to apply for more of its services. Too few people still know that the library is an open space for all to enter without prior registration or proof of identity. In particular, students: The Library of Parliament could be a real gold mine. In other words, awareness of Parliament's magnificent library needs to be further enhanced.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-18-ps-115.u5	Mr President! So libraries in general are a basic service for citizens. It is a basic service, just like education and health care. We do business in the library, borrow a bunch of books and hardly think about how this is possible at all. The library is an important part of our community, and we Finns value our library institution high. The work in the library ensures that the basic cultural services that make our everyday life a little richer are part of our basic education and contribute to our well-being and prevent many social problems. So the importance of libraries is not just borrowing books. Their importance as a source of cultural capital and as a guardian of regional civilisation and tradition is indisputable. As a research library, the Library of Parliament is unique in its field and has been described as necessary on several occasions. The most used material is literature related to Parliament and politics and legal professional literature. The library collection receives praise year after year. Its long history as a central library of its own field is visible and sets expectations. As a research library, the library is unique in its field. In addition to policy researchers, journalists also use it as a material, content and expert service. The library has made good progress in the focus areas of the library's service strategy for the years 17 to 20. I have great respect and respect for this work. President! I would like to thank the Parliamentary Library for its report, its level and its activities. I fully support its future with the aim of producing more high-quality content, expert and material services in an increasingly challenging and rapidly changing information community. Knowledge and development of existing staff and recruitment of new staff are key elements in this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-18-ps-115.u6	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you to the Chairman of the Board of the Library, Mr Kiuru, for a good presentation, and thank you also to Antti Virrankoski, Director of the Library of Parliament, with his competent, good staff. As has been well pointed out in previous speeches, the Library of Parliament has a very special place in our Parliament's activities, but also in the wider Finnish society. It is a unique library in many ways. In time, when I came to Parliament, I was allowed to work on the Government of the Library of Parliament, and it was also an interesting lookout then to get a little inside to see everything that is done in this house. When we talk about libraries, traditional books get into a big position. In about 35 years, however, the number of libraries in Finland has halved. Today there are less than 800 libraries in total, and then, of course, the concern is whether library services can be guaranteed in the future as local services. This may include various mobile library services where books or other material are ordered and can come near, for example, service traffic, school buses or other high school schools. Of course, today, as the statistics of the Library of Parliament show, Internet use and electronic books have also changed that traditional use of the library. Representative Pelkonen raised the issue of literacy, where libraries play a major role. In fact, I just want to raise critical literacy in this regard, which I hope will be more and more invested in by libraries and, for example, by schools and families. But one of those things, I might say, my own favorite child has been this memory archive of veteran MPs, and I am extremely pleased that, in time — years ago — I raised the question of whether to interview those MPs who have not fallen out of here or wanted to leave, even at the time when they are doing the work of the MP. Thank you to Parliament's library and its chairman, Mr Kiuru, for the fact that, for example, this collection of memory data has been interviewed by Mrs Kanerva, a Member of Parliament, who has almost been designed here in the House by Johan Sirén. In other words, over 40, soon to be 45, the representative of the Parliament is involved in this memory file, and his data has also been collected there. After all, these interviews took place last year with ten veteran MPs — probably a few still in the house. The average length of interviews is just over 7 hours and almost 200 pages have been converted into text, i.e. quite significant large data sets. During the year, 15 of the interviews were unwritten, and during the election year, all undissolved interviews were flattened. There are now 437 interviews available for researchers. In the reporting year, interviews were made available to 12 researchers who used 100 different interviews in their studies. I also attach great value to the fact that Parliament's Veteran MPs' memory archives have been interviewed about parliamentary employees, non-parliamentarys, such as former Secretary-General Tiit, and I hope that such interviews will continue to be conducted. I was just wondering how much interesting history information our janitor Reino would have to share with historians at some point, or at Kaisu at the café — could be interesting even from the viewpoint of researchers. [Parliament : Good idea! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-18-ps-115.u7	Mr President! It is very pleasant to take the floor here once again and to thank the people of the Library of Parliament for the important work that is being done here, and to note that I feel very valuable to the entire library and so do this Parliament's own. This is where we heard good speeches about the fact that there is certainly a need in the future to strengthen the fact that as many students as possible, such as schoolchildren or students, are aware of the possibility of: The Library of Parliament also offers them and the citizens in general. That's great. All in all, I think it is important to see the importance of libraries in society as an image of equality, of general education, of all this fine, and that is why I always want to use this traditional speech in this context. This spring was very special. We heard from Mr Kiuru's presentation that it also caused arrangements in this house, and society in general was closed, including libraries. I think it was an important, good signal that, at the time of the spring or the summer, when society began to open up, the libraries were the first to open up, and perhaps the reception that came from the public at the time of the opening of the libraries was the very meaning of what the library facility is for our nation. President! There was a good speech from Mr Pelkos that, in general, the importance of the library in promoting literacy is also enormous — I agree — and another thing I would like to say today is equality in the digital world. This was also the day before yesterday, when there was a legislative package of thick communications presented by Minister Haraka and we went into the debate, this equality emerged. So we've been digitizing, society is digitizing. Our huge challenge is for everyone to have access to it, to know how, to have equipment, to remember the other person. Not everyone may ever have the same opportunity to use digital services, but we have a big role to play in promoting equal opportunities for all, and a library institution is an important promoter of this. I am very pleased that, as early as Christmas in the two budgets, we have been able to increase the resources of libraries in a small but important way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-18-ps-115.u8	Thank you. — Today, therefore, we will continue the debate until half the time, and this same subject will then be discussed next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-18-ps-115.u9	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Kiuru, the Chairman of the Board of the Library, for sharing this report from the Library of Parliament for 2019. This will come to us in the Committee on Education and Rural Development and we will then report on it, but here are just a few words. Here again, we can say that the Library of Parliament is the guaranteed active activity, precisely what the library's tasks include. Good speeches have been made here about how the library's task is not only to borrow books but also to create its culture in a variety of ways. Indeed, there have been many events in the Library of Parliament. It has not only been a book - lending service but has also been a source of material. Mr Heinonen mentioned this memory data project, which has been going on for a long time, and it is indeed a matter of enormous importance. It was then stated here that this has been a somewhat exceptional period, firstly because at the time we made a decision to pay particular attention to security, because the world is changing and the security of libraries also needs to be taken into account. One, of course, was this corona, which also involved security issues, but from a slightly different point of view to what I said first. But now that all these things have been taken care of, it is great, just as Mr Viitanen said, that the library really was the first to open, and that is what it was supposed to be. We have been able to maintain the transparency of the library by ensuring both physical and health safety. All in all, we all know that The service of the Library of Parliament is unparalleled. Thank you for a very good service for all of you there and for the library management and staff. Indeed, we also promote equality from this point of view, we also promote media literacy, literacy overall, but, above all, libraries radiate from culture. That is why we take this very seriously when we look at it in the Committee on Culture. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-18-ps-115.u10	Mr President! I myself would like to thank the staff of the Library of Parliament and also the government and its chairman, who here presented the library in an excellent way over the last year, as well as other representatives who have made excellent speeches here about how the Library of Parliament can serve society more widely. Perhaps I too share the hopes that the Library of Parliament could perhaps even more attempt to open itself up to other societies. It is not a question of not being open, but rather of finding it. I personally admit that there are still quite a lot of undiscovered treasures hidden in the library. However, what I have found and admired is these various exhibitions that have been brought to libraries and they are certainly also likely to open the Library of Parliament to other societies. I would like to highlight, for example, last year a photo exhibition like the one in search of Hope, where children from developing countries were photographed. There were also many pictures of literacy, but they had perhaps been presented in an exceptional way. We are used to being presented with the desperation and, as it were, the unfortunate situation that is often associated with them and the shortcomings that exist there, but here there was hope of how hope can be created, for example, through development cooperation or other means, for example, by exporting education services to these countries. They were very bright and hopeful images, and I thought it was a great change of perspective, as it were, on that subject as well. There have also been other fine forms of cooperation, such as, for example, the MPs at the Art Schools project, which I am sure many of us have taken part in. Perhaps I should like to conclude by saying that the Library of Parliament has its own important role to play. The role of libraries in society is very important, for example, in promoting its literacy, but I personally believe that: The Library of Parliament has its own special role and it is good that it does not seek to be exactly the same as other libraries that have such a larger folk culture mission. It is great that the Library of Parliament is focused on this particular political aspect and on both history and the present, and it is great to hear that these images, memories and history of today's parliamentarians are now also being stored in the library's caches for future generations. Surely those reports would have much to learn for us present-day parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-18-ps-115.u11	Mr President! Very heavy speeches have been made here today about the library, especially from the Library of Parliament in this case, but from the library in general, and the speeches are important to note that the Finnish Library Institute is one of the highest quality in the world. It is also very important that the library is open and free of charge. It is at the heart of this. The use of library services does not ask for a wallet. The U.S. Congress Library is one of the most well-known libraries in the world, but in the same sense the Library of Parliament is well known in Finland, precisely through political literature, social literature, legislative literature, and it would feel better to know, however, that it is also open to the public — at the disposal of researchers in any case, and that is the important feature here. For my part, I would also like to thank the library staff. Every time you've gone there, you've got great service — thank you for that. You're doing a valuable job.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-18-ps-115.u12	Mr President! Libraries are indeed our guardians of civilization, and even in silence they are the creators of encounters. Thank you to my colleagues for your very good contributions, and thank you to the library board, the chairman, the representative colleague Kiuru and all the staff for having such a versatile parliamentary library, which is indeed open to everyone. Here Mr Heinonen gave a good speech on this memory data project, and he also brought wishes for the future, and Mr Viitanen and many others here spoke of the importance of libraries to us, and I would like to see us all, perhaps even better reminded of the importance of the Library of Parliament in this very large Parliament House, which is our joint Parliament House, which is to say that we have great exhibitions and many others. Perhaps next year, the Library of Parliament could think about some of the theme days so that we representatives will see and remember in all the hurry and all the other activities that we would go on... At least I still have something to do with it, because in this particular time we need those encounters: encounters between people, of course, but encounters between its research, different knowledge, thinking and stories. There are countless books in the world. You don't have to read them all, but it's important that someone reads them. - Thank you.
