ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the other committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the referral to the Committee on Finance, i.e. no later than 12 November 1920. The debate and discussion were suspended at the plenary session on 7 October 2020. In this context, the debate will also be allowed on the basis of day-to-day arrangements between 4 and 18. on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u2	Madam President! This year has been very exceptional in the policy field, and it has also been so in the case of state-owned companies. In addition to human need, the pandemic caused by the Korona virus has led to a major economic upheaval in a very short period of time. The negative effects on business have also been exceptionally high for many state-owned companies. The property income of the central government budget consists of dividends and income from the sale of shares. The budget does not specify the distribution of property income into different types of income. In practice, the State receives dividends from both listed companies and companies wholly or partially owned by the State. The estimate of revenue for next year's draft budget is EUR 2.086 billion and on top of the ripples. Of course, this is only an estimate, and it is only next year that we will be able to analyse in more detail how much dividends and sales revenue will be obtained from our joint state-owned companies in the state budget. Due to Koronaris, several companies have postponed the payment of dividends from last spring to this autumn, and still not all companies have taken final decisions on the payment of dividends for 2020. In addition, some companies have refrained from paying dividends in full. Dividends for 2019 amounted to EUR 1.4 billion and this year they are significantly lower. However, it can already be said that the dividend forecast in 2021 and 2022 is lower than in previous years due to the crisis and there are significant uncertainties due to the interest rate crisis. With regard to Solidium, it is the task of this national anchor company to strengthen, stabilise and defend domestic ownership in companies of national importance. In particular, during the corona crisis, but also when returning to normal conditions, Solidium should be well equipped to participate in the capital management of the companies it owns and in possible financing arrangements. The dividends received by Solidium are in principle imputable to the State. If the situation is that the sale of state shareholdings would be concluded, it will be subject to a thorough overall assessment in the corporate governance process, taking into account all the strategic and financial interests of the State. A thorough overall assessment is needed and, of course, we cannot speculate in advance with any sales. Madam President! The state is and wants to be a stable owner also in the midst of the crisis. Our ownership policy principles are such that they can be complied with by state companies in both challenging and normal business situations. Our owner guidance is predictable, forward-looking and secure for the state's strategic interests. Its symbol is "Prosperity by Responsible Ownership". As an owner, we also emphasise to companies not only the creation of value but also the fight against climate change, the exploitation of digitalisation and corporate responsibility issues. We require companies to take into account the objective of carbon-neutral Finland 2035 and the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. The objectives must be achieved with a view to strengthening sustainable competitiveness and social responsibility. Only a responsible company can be successful, and only a successful company can be responsible. We also expect companies to take a lead in exploiting digitalisation and moving towards a carbon-neutral circular economy from their own point of view. The research, development and innovation activities of companies are now examined in more depth and strategically. The identification and exploitation of new potential in companies is increasingly important in the post-corona period of reconstruction. Of course, these issues are those whose implementation varies from company to company and is the responsibility of the company's operational management. Madam President! The State’s corporate assets are a significant part of the
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u3	I would now like to ask those Members who wish to speak, to rise and take the floor using the V button from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u4	Mr President! The Minister's presentation focused on these priorities for the development of state-owned companies. There are now two topical questions. First of all, this climate fund: how actively and dynamically can it be used to promote such pioneering projects, to strengthen pioneering companies, so that Finland will have activities and employment effects? And the second, even bigger, is actually this field. When a wave of investments like this is coming in the world to combat climate change and increase energy efficiency in cleantech and, for example, the EU is financing it strongly, how do we get these large enough business consortia from Finland who dare to go into those big projects so that we can get a new basis for exports? Here are some of the names and special funding of the locomotive companies there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u5	Mr President! The future of the bet speaks both in public in a negative sense and as a fear in a certain organization field. You too, Minister Tuppurainen, have spoken about this in public, even with some interesting facts. You spoke, among other things, of illegal foreign gambling by Finns. Of course, it would be nice to know what law Finns have broken in this way. It would be good to hear the answer. But the bigger problem now is that both sports organisations and youth organisations already consider it problematic that their funding should come from people with gambling problems, people in distress — and this should not sound good in anyone’s ear. There's a dilemma here. That is why I would ask you, Minister: what is your vision and road map? On the bet?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u6	Madam President! The Koronavirus pandemic has indeed been a source of economic turmoil around the world, and hits have also been taken here in Finland. State ownership policy and active ownership can play an important role in softening the economic and employment impact. There has been a debate on CSR, which has been very active in recent times. I would ask: how can the state contribute to Finnish work and entrepreneurship through ownership policy, an active one?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u7	Madam President! The minister very well initialled here the general role of state companies, and I must say that in this situation often the role of the state, and the role of state corporations, is quite crucial when we start to wonder, for example, how to maintain and restore the vitality of the provinces. One company that plays a very central role is Finnair. After all, we have now heard that Finnair has now taken decisions in November-March that transport connections — Joensuu, Kajaani, Kemi, Kokkola, Jyväskylä — have been partially restored. And now it is a question of what is the follow-up, how the state will now ensure that, through Finnair, for example, the extremely important feed-in connections for companies in the European direction are kept open and, on the other hand, that domestic transport can then be ensured. Like Mr Koskinen here, I would have liked to know about this transformation of Mr Vake into a climate fund. In public
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u8	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister of Ownership whether you intend to buy back these very productive state-owned shares or whether you have bought them, because this has become an opportunity during the interest rate. For example, I bought Neste's shares, and the value has risen by 66 per cent. Do you have such a strategy that you would also buy at a good opportunity, or do you only sell these state-owned good companies? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u9	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. Of course, the Prime Minister's Office has a number of very important and interesting issues, and this state's corporate governance is especially important and challenging at a time like this, when both the pandemic and perhaps also the rise of a certain geoeconomy, as it were, the strategic role of the states as its owner. So it's on top of challenging things. To this change in the Vake climate fund, I would like to make it clear to myself that it is absolutely essential that the best scientific knowledge governs the operation of the climate fund, i.e. it must have sufficient expertise and independence, the way in which the money is channelled there. But with regard to this which Essayahkin referred to, Vake’s influence — not only on the detail, but otherwise — would be interested to hear that when state companies also engage in their own influence, what that direction is, because, in a way, its dictation should be from the owner’s direction, so that those interests are dictated in a way by their interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u10	Let me remind everyone of this one-minute deadline.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u11	Mr President! I take two aspects in relation to the fact that the sitting minister is also a European minister, but my question does relate to these holdings. The first is this: now, in the course of this corona crisis, many EU countries have given very strong support to their own companies and, in particular, to these airlines, which is understandable in itself. My question is this: will the normal time come back to the state aid-limiting provisions that have been agreed in the European Union? And the second question is that, now that these markets are being redistributed as a result of this crisis and it may be that, in some areas, these European operators — including Finnish companies, without mentioning the names of companies — may be too small and may need to merge with another company in order to be strong enough, have we also thought about this, because at the moment this merger is reasonable?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u12	Honorable Speaker! I would like to reflect on the issue of dividend income and the proceeds from the sale of shares that, when this presentation said that there was no desire to speculate on the sale of ownership, in a way, this budget is speculating, however, because in the financial statements of 2019 the government received dividends and sales income of 1515 million, then in the current year's budget there were 2176 million, but in the second additional budget, 1126 million were deducted — that is to say, it was halved, not sold — but in the next year's budget, which we are dealing with, 2086 million have still been put into the proceeds of the sale of shares and dividends. Isn't this just the speculation that we're going to sell these state ownership next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u13	Madam President! Last season, when Vake Oy was founded, the Left Alliance was the only party here in Parliament that was opposed to this being established. Many others are also criticising it, and we have now seen the problems it poses, for example, in terms of publicity and transparency. It is good that sensible action has now been found on it through this climate fund, but transparency and publicity must always be essential. Madam President! I asked to speak after Mr Wallinheimo's intervention. Today, among other things, the State Sports Council has taken the view that the funding of physical activity must in future be budget-based rather than based on a bet. But two things are now mixed up in this debate, on the one hand, the fact that, for historical reasons, sports, culture and the social and health services have been financed through Veikkaus and the Slot Machine Association, on the other hand, and, on the other hand, what is the status of Veikkaus. Yes, I would see that, for example, a general allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u14	Madam President! In the midst of this global and national crisis, the responsibility and power of the state’s ownership policy will be further emphasised. First of all, thank the Minister for the wonderful way in which you have built the view and the way forward in the midst of this difficult situation. Your property is not easy at all. I would also like to express my concern about Finnair. Of course, it has been hit very hard by the interest-rate crisis, and we have also received a lot of sad news from the press, despite the fact that the state has been very powerful in capitalising the company once again. Now that some of these regional flights have been returned differently from one province to another, we are living in a trial period, and the time will tell if they are needed and whether they can be flown on a commercial basis. But the situation is challenging in the sense that if the virus situation affects mobility at all and the existing shifts do not serve the work and business world, where are the fins?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u15	Madam Speaker! Now that the government is really putting government property into meat, the Finns would like to know a little more about this. Of course, the True Finns have felt that a dairy cow should not be sold.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u18	Madam President! Indeed, I am also interested in this Vake Climate Fund and whether all of Vake's funds will come to that, or whether there are other measures for Vake. Then, at all costs, this interest rate situation and the possibility of owner - control, for example, affecting the acquisition of these state - government companies. I would like to take as an example the purchase of VR's carriage and the relationship with Transtech. As we have heard from the news, the subcontractor network is already going bankrupt, for example with regard to the foundry of railway and wagon equipment, and itself. Transtech doesn't have much oxygen in it either. Is it possible, for example, for interest rate or other reasons to anticipate more of these purchases or plans, to make them earlier, and can owner guidance address them? The second question, even then, of state-owned companies
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u19	Madam President! In recent days, the Prime Minister has made some tough speeches on corporate social responsibility, and this of course also applies to state companies and Veikkaus. We know that gambling causes very serious social problems, and it cannot be that sport and sport are only financed by those with gambling problems. There have already been strong speeches here about the fact that it should be entirely budgeted, but I would like to ask the Minister: do you have any views on the ways in which we can increase our own funding? I am concerned about this, particularly because immobility is also one of the major causes of social problems. And the very specific question is: when will we be discussing in this Chamber the issues involving the portfolio of the Minister for European Affairs?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u20	Mr President! Finnair was supported by EUR 700 million in the spring, and the Minister of Finance already stated in his opinion that it is extremely important for business and tourism that regional flights should be maintained. VaV also took the view that, following the corona crisis, flights should be returned to the provinces. The situation is understood, and now this temporary solution for winter schedules is something to be broken down — the main thing is that the head is open. But at the same time, 24 hours after that, Finnair's CEO, Manner, announces that the regional flights will run out. It is now a slight contradiction to the fact that in the spring the company will be capitalized, when then comes this kind of message after the Air Transport Task Force, which Minister Harakka set up, has met, and they will then have the aim of this tendering anyway. In other words, Finnair withdraws completely from flights from the Finnish provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u21	Mr President! State ownership must be a tool for active social renewal. The time for the fossil economy is beginning to be over, and this is no longer just a scientific statement, but also a fact based on market analysis. An increasing proportion of the world's major capitalists, investment companies, withdraw their money from the fossil economy, and the demand for climate change investments is beginning to grow more than the supply at international level. This is what we should now take up when Finland tries to rise from the corona crisis. There is little reason for the state to invest in polluting activities or support it when it is aimed at carbon-neutral Finland, and private operators are no longer really interested in pollution. Here, too, the EU Parliament has recently adopted ever more stringent climate targets, which means that this is becoming a common European objective. It would be interesting to hear from the Minister how this carbon-neutral Finland can be built through owner guidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u22	Mr President! In the European Union, there is currently a careful assessment of the different types of direct foreign investment in non-EU business areas with different strategic interests — not just business interests, but strategic national interests. In the United States, the CFIUS Institute in Congress is also looking closely at what kind of investment is going to be made in the United States, for example, these 5G issues have, of course, been the top priority, but it also includes various other new technologies, mines, ports, airports and so on. What have you been thinking about these at national level, for example in the Committee on Economic Policy or otherwise, do you have any guidelines, and to what extent are you working with the EU on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u23	Madam President! I'd fly if the blue and white wings were holding. Interest time is really difficult for global air traffic, not just for Finnair. Of course, we support climate objectives and we hope that it will not be so popular in the future, but that the rail side will do better, but the fact is that we have regions which currently have no other competitive option of being present, both in Europe and in the rest of the world, in terms of business and tourism. And now it seems that even after the interest rate, Finnair’s strategy has changed in terms of how these regional airports will be flown in the future. How does the Minister of Ownership Steering see its post-corona period and Finnair's strategy in the future? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u24	Madam President! Air transport is absolutely essential for the people and livelihoods of our regions. Yes, in many areas of Finland this week it has been sad to note that the Government's talk about returning traffic connections has been completely empty when it is practically clear that Finnair will only offer two weekly shifts to many localities, not two shifts a day, but two shifts a week. No one can base their own travel plans on such shifts. As a result, we still have a significant part to play in the whole of Finland, North Karelia, Central Finland, Kokkola—Pietarsaariner,Kainuu,Meri-Lapiner,a highly significant industrial area along the Kemi–Tornio airport, which is fully operational. What will the government do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u25	Let us take Mr Hoskonen and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u26	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Auto, for your excellent speech. Take, for example, the capital of my country, Joensuu: a huge number of international companies that live on the export market. It is absolutely essential for them to be able to quickly get here to Helsinki and then continue with a flight connection to our customers in Europe and a little further. We were just there to support Finnair, to capitalise because of this crisis — the right thing to do — but, yes, there must also be a strong backbone in this Parliament and in the government of this country, so that we can get things done in such a way that the flights return. Finnish companies do not live by living in a bottle or behind difficult transport connections, and not everyone can move here to Helsinki. The result of these companies is found in different regions of Finland. We need a clear government policy on this now. Playing with this is about to cost Finland so many jobs that it is not real. I hope that the Minister will tighten up on this issue and that the whole government will take a strong position on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u27	Secretary Tuppurainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u28	Mr President! Excellent questions. However, I would like to start with my second plot by saying that European policy can be achieved. The Government will report on this recovery plan and Parliament will take a decision on the ratification of EU own resources. In other words, EU policy can be achieved in this Chamber. But I am here today to talk to you about state ownership control and the property income of next year's budget, and I will actually start with Mr Kalli's question about how state companies can promote employment and entrepreneurship. Yes, we can make a difference. The State of Finland is a significant player in Finland's economy and business life, and the State as owner is long-term and stable. And we will see to it that the value of this property will also be maintained for future generations. The value of stability is particularly emphasised in these times of crisis. Perhaps the most important clue to our activities is that we ensure that the operating conditions of both state and other companies are maintained and that there is predictability in terms of operating conditions. It's that a and o, and that's what the entire Marin government is all about. President! A number of companies were given attention, and I would like to mention, first of all, the bet. With regard to betting, the government parties unanimously agreed that the lottery law reform will now be introduced in a way that will safeguard both the fight against the important gambling disadvantages needed for Veikkaus and then the channeling of the beneficiaries into Veikkaus' systems so that we can continue to earn money from Veikkaus to important third-sector organisations in Finland. These two need to be reconciled. There are many ways, including blockage. I am not going to go into these details, because this actual regulation takes place at the Ministry of the Interior under the leadership of Minister Maria Ohio, and here, as it were, the owner and regulator's oatmeals and vellets are not allowed to get confused. But as far as my guess is concerned, the lottery law project is now moving forward. Several representatives also drew attention to Mr Vake, and I would like to say quite frankly here that I disapprove of the actions of the Vake management. It is not appropriate for state-owned companies to rely on various impact and communication agencies when they want to communicate with the state owner. This matter has been dealt with by the Vake Board, and the Vake Management has received the owner’s greetings. But it is also important to say that the climate fund will be built in a sustainable way from Vake, which will implement in many ways both the objectives of European climate policy and the climate policy of the Marin Government. This climate fund has been agreed to be established, and the work will take place under the leadership of Tuula Haatainen, Minister of Employment of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. The aim is to have a significantly massive player who has the muscle to make investments, but who is not a market disturbance and is not overlapping with private funds. President! Finnair: Finnair is, ladies and gentlemen, in an existential crisis. Our job is to ensure that we have a national airline at all after this corona crisis. Finnair has now announced that it will fly this winter season to these provincial airports. I think that is a good and necessary announcement. And then, under the leadership of Minister Haraka, the government will, by means of a purchase agreement, secure these flights until the end of the year. In its minutes, the State has committed itself to ensuring that these domestic contacts are secured, and work continues on this. That is what I want to assure you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u29	Madam President! The Finns of Peru are concerned about the sale of state-owned companies. Recently, there were problems with the Post. What? Is it the post office now? And as another question, I could ask you: Have you thought about what should be done to the parties during the corona period, or should anything be done to them?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u30	Irade the Talman! We were talking about Finnair, and this is a difficult balancing exercise. The government owns some of it, but it's still a stock exchange company. When the government capitalises Finnair, it tries to secure its future, its financial position. But we must be careful as to the extent to which the state goes and interferes with Finnair's operational operations. It was suggested that the government would pay for empty aircraft to stay in the air during the spring, and that hardly makes sense. There will now be direct aid, certain direct routes will be secured, but there will be limits to how strong government guidance can be given to a company operating on the market. What is relevant here is that Finnair will remain a company in the future. It's vital to us. It is vital for Finland to be able to engage in global trade in business operations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u31	Mr President! Many NGOs that work in our country’s valuable work depend on the support of Veikkaus. The beneficiaries are numerous sports and cultural players and, among other things, welfare-promoting social welfare organisations. The revenue from the bet has now fallen enormously, especially as a result of the interest rate, but a big thank you to the government for compensating this for next year's budget. A large € 347 million pot will secure citizens’ activities next year. The Future However, as far as the revenue of the bet is concerned, it is obscure and involves, among other things, this much-spoken prevention of gambling disadvantages, which has led to a significant reduction in the number of gaming machines. How can we respond to this financial challenge, and what do you think, should we put up a parliamentary group like this and think about the future of Veikkaus – could this monopoly also be on the table at that point? Of course, I am particularly concerned about the funding of physical activity, because sport and physical activity are entirely dependent on Veikkaus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u32	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for a clear proposal. State ownership control policy is of particular importance at these times. But while controlling the flow of money, corporate governance is more than just monitoring the flow of money. It is to make clear a clear voice about what the State as owner expects. It is often said that the State as the owner cannot interfere, for example, in the personnel policy of companies and in operational activities in general. It is a little difficult for citizens to understand why the owner cannot influence the operations of the company he owns. I would now like the Minister to open up this issue — in plain language, because he is capable of doing so — that it is so. It is hard to understand that just when you get tens of millions from the owner, the next morning comes the announcement that it is going to end so and so many activities,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u33	Madam President! The interest crisis has put many sports clubs and players in a truly unparalleled position, especially in economic terms. This will certainly be reflected in the quality of life of children and young people, and according to statistics, Finland's immobility costs up to EUR 7 billion to society. Nevertheless, and despite these challenges, many clubs, actors and athletes are also concerned about the fact that much of that funding comes from Veikkaus and Veikkaus receives his income partly from those with gambling problems. Minister, even though you may have walked around there a little bit. When it comes to betting, I believe that the owner has a vision, however, in which direction he will be taken in the future, and I would like to hear a little more about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u34	I would remind the representatives that this is a hall of yours.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u35	Mr President! I, too, pay attention to Finnair, although I am from the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and I do not need any air connections other than abroad, as a rule. However, this is a national airline, and we want to interpret Finnair. Finland is an exceptionally large country in terms of its surface area compared to European countries. Of course, we are sparsely populated, little inhabited, but I would also defend the approach that Finnair, as a national airline, also has this kind of public service function — a bit like Posti has this public service mission — in which case I would strongly encourage us to ensure the vitality and settlement of sparsely populated areas and, in particular, the central centres of the provinces in these areas. So I do support this debate, which will now become the hall. While this existential crisis truly exists and we have to do everything to ensure that the airline survives, this will avoid these image losses that this current crisis will entail.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u36	Madam President! The short and succinct question: why sell profitable state ownership, or is it the ideology proposed by Mrs Suomela?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u37	Madam President! Minister Tuppurainen, you spoke beautifully and correctly about responsibility in corporate governance, but — just like Mr Laukkanen — I would ask you to clarify what is actually possible. I would like to give you three examples of irresponsibility, in my view. It was mainly a mockery to open up two weekly flights to Central Finland that travel through Kajaani, and on that basis to make an assessment in the future as to whether these flights would be necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u40	Madam President! My question relates mainly to the fact that yesterday we heard from the Prime Minister several times in his reply that we should not go into dismissals. I will also take one example, like the previous representative. I was given a message that Posti is firing people but is taking exactly the same number of employees from the rental company to replace them. Is this a proper state-owned governance policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u41	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for a good introduction. I myself drew attention to the decision on the principle of corporate governance — climate, digitalisation and corporate responsibility — and especially in this period of time, corporate responsibility and social responsibility are emphasised in our ownership policy. I would therefore like you, Minister, to be able to open this up a little bit further, how this is being shown in concrete terms and what kind of message we are sending about our corporate governance, particularly from the point of view of this social responsibility, which has now been discussed a great deal. This week a study was carried out in which the public broadly expressed their support for the need for stronger corporate social responsibility, especially in this period of time, and the message you send as Minister of Corporate Governance is an important message and direction for our society as a whole. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u42	Mr President! Slot machines in the store lobby are in our own hands, and it is really good that they are now finally being reduced. I will continue to encourage effective solutions. It would also be good to break the link between gambling and organisations, as has been mentioned here, but the situation on the Internet will then be much more difficult. I myself would like to ask what concrete measures are to be taken to prevent an increase in the number of gambling problems and to prevent money from being poured into tax havens. In my opinion, because it is a special task company, a company of its own kind, it should be more consistent than it has been in previous years, and perhaps that is what it is now because one of the biggest problems of Veikkaus has been that it has had many different ministries, all of which sometimes take the opposite direction. Here you referred to the fact that we should not go to another property, and now I would like to ask: what has been done to increase coherence so that all ministries can look together,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u43	President! For these regional flights: if the state allocates money from the budget to carry out the flights, how will it be ensured that the money does not only flow into outsourced flights and thus abroad? The second point is the critical nature of aviation professionals and the maintenance of professional skills: Finnair has a lot of pilots who are laid off and unemployed, and this has an impact on the maintenance of professional skills. If Finland needs air transport, maintaining know-how and skills is also important in the long term. How do we ensure that the so-called brain drain does not occur and that air transport is not vulnerable to recovery when we face a decline in skills in the essential sector? Then, from the quarantine practice: if it is not changed and made more effective — for example, interest rate dogs, which are very cost-effective, or rapid tests — then aviation is in danger of falling and we are stuck here in a hit, which would be a huge loss for the state company and for Finland as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u44	Madam President! A lot of questions come to the Minister of Ownership and it is not always easy to intervene in that operational activity. But in the big picture this state ownership has a direct connection to security of supply, and it is through many of our state-owned companies — then talked about Finnair, Patria, Fortum, VR, Neste — in its own way all of these. And in order for our own state companies to be able to operate and provide security of supply, that activity is also needed outside the borders of the country. Fortum is a good example of searching for large-scale incentives, exporting clean technology outside the country's borders, ensuring domestic energy security and profitability. Patria is a good example of how defence exports, as industry, can support the domestic defence industry and security of supply. But my question is actually how to ensure that the message goes better cross-administratively within the government, for example, with regard to export permits, that our defence industry is not flagged out, or, for example, that Finavia does not price its own flights in such a way that Patrian is not in favour of training in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u45	Mr President! The Minister raised the priorities of state ownership policy, including digitalisation and climate weightings. Finland is and has been an export country of metal structures. For example, the majority state-owned Fingrid, our main network company, has come into a situation through competitive tendering that metal structures come from China when building the electricity grid. How is this possible, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u46	I apologize to the congressman for intruding. — And now, Mr Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u47	Madam President! During that debate, I was amazed to hear the revelry of the MPs of the government parties that it is good now that these regional flights have been opened up. The fact is that these connections are absolutely miserable, and Mr Adlercreutz's speech that the coalition would have wanted to fly empty planes with state money was absolutely incomprehensible. The Coalition Party would have liked to start flights with the help of the State, so that at this stage of the year it would already be in the process of market-based flying. After all, now we have a total disaster in which these totally inadequate flights, which do not help anyone to travel between the provinces and the capital, will certainly lead to Finnair stating that there is no demand and that there is no need to continue the flights. Minister, is it the case that after the corona, for example, Jyväskylä, Athens of Finland, is such a city whose university world no longer needs international cooperation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u48	Madam President! Minister Tuppurainen, you have just told us that the lottery law is about to be reformed, and that is good. But you also told us that the reform will ensure both the prevention of gambling disadvantages and revenue, i.e. maximising people's money lost. They are the opposite of each other. Customer information today published in a press release that 10 per cent of men have default labels, which are the main cause of the machines. I am myself from a family of five children, where the money needed to live was played for gambling machines. I'm asking you to take the gaming machines out of the store. You can do it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u49	Madam President! We are well on our way from the fossil economy to the bioeconomy. If you look westward, the Norwegian State will have an oil fund worth over EUR 1000 billion, and this fund will today also be used to promote the bioeconomy. This debate has brought up projects in the northern bioproduct mills in the direction of Kemi, but I would also like to remind you that Kainuu KaiCell Fibers and then in Eastern Lapland in Kemijärvi Boreal Bioref are such factory projects that generate more income for this economy. I would like to ask the minister in question: now that this Climate Fund Oy is being made and wants to have those muskets, would it be possible for this company to be involved in these factory investments and thereby contribute to the bioeconomy in this country?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u50	In this debate, I will give the following answers — and then the Minister — to Mr Valli, followed by Mrs Wallinheimo, Mrs Suomela and Mr Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u51	Mr President! I did not receive an answer to my question: are you also buying shares in these good companies or are you simply selling? If you only sell, then they will eventually stop. And here I would like to raise Neste because it is already called a new soot for this biodiesel and other products. Here’s the article by the financial editor ‘Neste transactions carried out during the JuhaSipila Government have been almost a billion euro for loss-payers’. What, then, will you do to ensure that such losses will not occur in the future? Do you know how to look at stock exchange rates there? After all, the interest rate decreased the prices of many shares, when it would have been the right time to buy. Have you bought anything, or have you just sold it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u52	Mr President! First of all, I support Mr Aselli's proposal to set up a parliamentary vision working group on this issue to consider what then Veikkaus could be in the future. Even with these measures, which the government is currently considering, we will be in exactly the same situation in five years' time. That's why we should watch. A little more specific in the longer term. But we have to catch Mr Adlercreutz's speech that the aircraft would now fly empty at the initiative of the Assembly. Now they're just flying empty. If I go to Tikkakoski first by taxi, then I go from there to Kajaani and then to Helsinki, it takes me three and a half hours. It's not like anyone in Jugsville is gonna do it. Now those machines are, for example, empty going from Jyväskylä to the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. Everyone is being forced to drive cars at the moment. No one's even using VR, because that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u53	Mr President! In the middle of the corona, many public transport operators have suffered from a severe fall in ticket revenues and, in any case, difficulties with interest rate measures and adjustment. It would therefore be important for public transport to be taken care of, given that many people, especially low incomes, have a need for everyday life in order to travel from one place to another to see friends and loved ones. VR has made headlines in recent days when it has emerged that security distances can be guaranteed in the Extra class but not necessarily elsewhere. Masks are distributed in the Extra class, but no one else can share them. Of course, when we know the strict financial situation of VR, the question arises as to whether the State could somehow support VR in more efficient interest rate measures, but in any event, when we know that the lack of ticket revenues is already threatening the possibilities of running trains and maintaining the service level in general. How the State
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u54	Madam Speaker! Reference has been made here to the left-wing assembly that money from people with gambling problems supports sport or that money from those with gambling problems goes abroad. I wonder why all of them. The customers of the bet are now referred to as gambling problems. However, playing brings entertainment value to many Finns, and I think it is more appropriate to ask what kind of humming society we really want to enter. We should not impose artificial restrictions on the activities of full human beings. Of course, it is all right to make some necessary restrictions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u55	I saw, and this debut will be concluded by Minister Tuppurainen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u56	Madam President! It is now appropriate to thank the representatives for a lively debate — I can see that a lot of questions arise about the ownership policy and the state’s property income. In this emergency, I can tell you that together with the parliamentary groups, we have set up a parliamentary committee for corporate governance, which will meet at the first meeting under my leadership here in just a few weeks, so at least a select group of you will be able to get a little closer to these questions. As far as I am concerned, I am always available for the debate, for example during parliamentary Question Time. Let me begin, Mr President, by answering the question of these property income, which has been raised by a number of representatives. I note that dividends are also a significant source of revenue in the state budget, a significant source of income, and so it must be said that dividends are also part of the normal functioning of the economy at this time. As a state owner, it is necessary for profitable companies to have dividend income comparable to comparable companies, because, as we can see, in the last year's budget, we finance important welfare state expenditure. In other parts of society, dividends are used to finance pensions, i.e. these dividends are an important issue, without prejudice to the debate on, for example, the payment of dividends by companies saved by society. It is clear that, in some cases, it is appropriate to limit the payment of dividends, and, for example, in the state company VR, we decided that at first we postponed the payment of dividends and then moderated the dividend to as much as a third of the EUR 300 million originally envisaged, but without dividends, it would be difficult to imagine such a ownership policy and also a state budget of this kind. As far as sales are concerned, of course, we do not speculate on sales. It is also part of this stability of state ownership policy, Mr Vallin, that we are acting in a way that does not cause market failures. The Government Programme agreed to finance future investments with some EUR 3 billion of property income, government sales revenue, during this parliamentary term, and this objective is naturally reflected in these budgets, however, with sales always being adjusted at the relevant time. For example, in a bad market situation there is no reason to sell, and in general we always make a very careful overall assessment, which also takes account of the strategic interests of the State. We are not speculating about sales, and I would also remind you that we have a new element to finance these future investments, for example, the recovery package from the EU and its recovery funding, and these issues will also be coordinated during this final election period. As far as purchases are concerned, which Mr Vallin also asked about, the same answer, of course, is not the case here, but I would like to say that we have an instrument for this. We have a tool, Solidium, which promotes strong domestic anchor ownership, which enables us to combat hostile corner-taking companies that are often discussed in the context of listed companies. Solidium is our tool here, and it is my job to ensure that Solidium has the capacity to succeed in this task. I would remind you, among other things, that at the moment, through Solidium, the State has become the largest single owner in Nokia, among other things. In other words, this is also happening on the part of the corporate governance policy of state-owned companies. Finally, President, I would like to take this floor to comment on Mr Kalmar's important contribution to corporate governance. I would like to say here that the lead in our operations is so-called good governance, and that good governance is based on the fact that one has the functions and responsibilities of the owner and another company's management, there is an operational management and the company's board of directors, both of which also have their respective roles, and the roles of these three players should be kept clear. If the activities of the owner, the company's board of directors and the company's operational management overlap, I fear that it will not create any clear, consistent, forward-looking activities for the management of the company. And in this good governance, I try to raise the level of ambition and remember that the owner has an important role to play, and it becomes clear first and foremost in the decision in principle of our ownership policy, which I have communicated to the presidents and CEOs of the companies and also in our regular dialogue, but I cannot and will not enter the real area of corporate management.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u57	Thank you, Minister Tuppurainen. Now we move on to the next issue, and Mr Kaikkonen is here. The introduction, five minutes, and then again the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u58	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Government will invest heavily, hopefully with the good support of Parliament, in defence of the country. The coming year 21 is even, I suppose, exceptional in terms of the defence budget. After years of preparation, the HX project aimed at replacing the full performance of the old Hornet fighters has progressed to a stage in which the state budget is required to finance a procurement decision. The basis for the HX project — the Hornets’ arrival at the end of their lifetime, the security policy situation, the need for new multi-functional fighters and the timetable — has remained unchanged. However, the Korona virus epidemic has affected the HX project in such a way that a delay of some months will occur. In my opinion, it can be estimated that it may be between four and six months, and when the original timetable was for the final procurement decision to be taken in 21 C.E., at least at the beginning of the year, that is not possible, that is the amount of delay here. Not all negotiations can be conducted in a secure manner. With this information that decision can be made at the end of 21 C.E. However, before sending a final invitation to tender — it is due to be sent at the beginning of next year — the remaining negotiations and test events will have to be completed. Mr President! A total budget of EUR 4.87 billion is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Defence in the coming year. This amount is EUR 1.7 billion, or 54% higher than in the current year's budget. This increase is, of course, due to this funding for the acquisition of multi-functional fighters. The amounts sound great, of course, and that is what they are, but we must also remember that the HX project will build Finland's defence capability for decades to come. Without HX, the increase in administrative appropriations is 0.7%, due to wage contract increases and other cost adjustments. As a result of the HX project, the share of defence administration in central government budget expenditure will increase from 5.5% in the current year to around 7.6% in 21. The EUR 10 billion HX funding for next year's budget will be allocated to the order mandate of EUR 9.4 billion and to the external financing of less than EUR 0.6 billion. These procurement costs do not fall into one year, but fall into 12 years. Where appropriate, the financing arrangements for the project will be specified in the budget for 22 years after the selection decision has been taken. The related index and exchange rate expenditure will be budgeted separately between 22 and 31 years. For the Navy Fleet 2020 project, the draft budget amounts to EUR 209 million. The financing of the project was mainly already included in the order mandate already granted in the 2018 budget. This fleet project is in the implementation phase, and last year a decision was made to build multi-purpose corvettes in Rauma with RMC. The direct employment impact of the project in Finland is around 3600 person-years. Although the debate, Mr President, over the past year has focused largely on two major projects, HX and Fleet 2020, other matters relating to defence will also be taken care of. In the 21st budget, the Defence Forces budget increases by a total of EUR 7.8 million, which will be used to increase staff and refresher training and voluntary national defence training. In addition, an increase of EUR 5 million was also agreed for 21 years in the context of the 20 amending budget for the recruitment of contract soldiers and other temporary staff. So contract soldiers, for example, help with training in those garrisons, and typically they are hired for six months — a year’s work, and perhaps about a hundred contract soldiers are obtained. Typically, they are young men and women who have recently performed military service. This will ease the workload in those garrisons. There are no substantial changes to military crisis management appropriations. The focus on operations is in Lebanon, Iraq and Afghanistan. According to estimates, the strength of the troops will be just over 400 person-years. Of course, any changes in operations will be monitored. Mr President! With regard to refresher exercises, the target of 19,000 trained reservists for the current year remains, and the reason is simply this corona pandemic. Not all refresher exercises can be arranged. The target for next year is 19,300 graduates, but that too remains to be seen for the reasons of the interest rate. The HX project will increase the budget for the administrative sector next year. The simultaneous replacement of the fleet's outgoing capabilities takes resources. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u59	And now we're going to the debatable phase. I would now like to ask those Members who wish to speak, to stand up and go to their own place and to reserve the floor with a V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u60	Mr President! The Government Programme states, Minister, the objective of increasing cooperation with Norway. Defence cooperation is generally considered to be in Finland’s interest for many different reasons. Norway is important in this regard and, in particular, increasing Nordic cooperation is worth pursuing and increasing in this respect in a situation where situations such as hybrid threats may cause a crisis in the northern regions. Now, however, I ask you the idea that, when this international military cooperation is appropriate to Finland's security policy position, why is the implementation of this cooperation with partners in military cooperation in this budget less than what it is, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u61	Madam President! It has rightly been identified as a priority in the budget to compensate for the loss of performance. As you said, Minister, the Fleet 2020 project is under way, and it will then bring us the Navy with significant performance. Of course, the HX Air Force project is moving forward on its own, and we will see if decisions taken in 2021 will be reached. Even in the field of the army, combat capability has been improved by, among other things, the Battle Tank Project in that last period. But we know that, over the next decade, the army’s equipment will grow old with a rather heavy hand, and knowing that these are quite expensive projects, I would ask you: how will the needs of the Army be secured in the overall squeeze of these two major projects?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u62	Madam President! We are living in exceptional times, as we all know, and in this exceptional time, even during this government, we have now been able to develop the defence sector, even from the great challenges that previous governments have faced. We have been able to increase the number of refresher exercises, although now the interest rate, as the Minister said, slightly weakens — but, in any case, increases the level of refresher exercises, which I consider to be a very good success. In addition to that, I think it is a good success in this book to be able to increase the staff of the Defence Forces. It is an extremely important issue, both from the point of view of working life and safety at work. However, I will ask the Minister about this HX project. You have already mentioned that the HX project is also being challenged as a corona. How has the Government thought about whether the HX project will in any case proceed to the selection during next year, at the latest by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u63	Madam President! Finland is not currently facing a military threat, but even rapid changes in the security environment are always possible. Of course, credible national defence is not a so-called cyclical issue; it must be taken care of under all circumstances. This is also what the government is doing, and it is also strongly reflected in this yellow book — indeed, the replacement of the fleet and the air force. However, the world is changing, and new means of influence are constantly being developed. Due to technological development and the development of methods of warfare, the operating environment has expanded to include not only traditional land, sea and air dimensions, but also space, cyber and information dimensions. I would like to ask: when the world changes and the means of influence around it, how will this be taken into account in military service and training for reservers? In particular, I would like to ask the Minister how the training of the reserve will be developed in the light of:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u64	Mr President! Most parliamentary parties have committed themselves to the full replacement of the performance that will disappear with the Hornets. At the same time, they have committed themselves to this particular price fork, which is, in practice, a price cap of around EUR 10 billion. There has been no commitment to a certain number of paragraphs, even though such an idea could be drawn from the debates that took place during the elections in particular. However, the general view is probably that the full replacement of performance means about the current number of copies. Now these manufacturers, who have been asked for offers, have become such an indication that they have difficulty getting this requested order to fit into the price fork that Finland has defined for itself, so how do you see this issue? If this is the case, what is there to be flexibility? Is it this full replacement of performance i.e.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u65	Madam President! Even in difficult times in the economy, credible national defence cannot be in the waiting hall. Thank you, Minister of Defence Kaikkonen, for your determination to take forward both the Fleet 2020 project and now the HX project. They are essential to our country's ability to strike and defend. It is also important to ensure that the Earthforce material is updated. Hundreds of thousands of assault rifles are coming to the acquisition stage, and I hope that there is also a Finnish alternative. Sufficient staff and the ability to cope with them are issues that we will never talk about too much, and I hope that particular attention will also be paid to this. This budget specifically mentions US cooperation, and I would like to ask when this Arctic Lock, the great military exercise, has now been decided to cancel: is this cancellation permanent, or is it intended to be implemented?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u67	Mr President! The interest rate situation has also had a strong impact on the defence administration, and congratulations on the fact that, despite this, we have done very well, and I am sure that there will be challenges right here in the anticipation of next year. I would have pointed out that the Government Programme has strongly outlined this work on promoting gender equality, and I am pleased that parliamentary work on the development of military service has started. Other issues have also been outlined here aimed at promoting women's voluntary military service, such as a temporary experiment on these joint services, which has begun. I would have asked about the timetable: when is a report to be expected on this experiment? Of course, there is a lot of interest and expectations about it. Then I would like to highlight the fact that Finland has committed itself to this UN target of women in peacekeeping missions — the aim is that 7% of those in peacekeeping missions should be women.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u68	Mr President! When Mr Heinonen asked, he used such terms that these projects are now important to ensure ‘defence’ and ‘defence’. I hope this was a Freudian slip, because we all agree on the defence, but it sounds a little aggressive, and I would like to make a clear distinction here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u71	Mr President! On the front page of the people of Lapland, there was a picture of two defence ministers, Minister of Defence Kaikonen and Hultqvist, posing in front of fighter planes — and nothing about it, there is a natural order and natural basis for cooperation between Finland and Sweden. But the situation goes quite another way when we include Norway in NATO, and you were about to agree on a cooperation agreement between these countries. The problem is that during the crisis, Norway is subjecting its leadership to NATO, and the Prime Minister of Norway has declared the goal that Norway will conclude an agreement with Sweden and Finland that will enable the transit of not only military forces but also military materials during both peace and crisis. If this is Norway's objective, then what is Finland's objective and what are the limits to such a transit agreement? Finland does?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u72	Madam President! Indeed, in this section of the Ministry of Defence, these major acquisitions are beginning to appear, and we understand in this Chamber across party lines that the outgoing performance must be replaced by both the Navy and the Air Force and, of course, the Earthforce's performance. What role can domestic work play in all these different procurements? In view of this corona time and the fact that we do not know how long this time will last, I have understood that we are able to present domestic work on security of supply and also on defence policy aspects. Otherwise, domesticism will not be accepted as a criterion for these competitions, but there are specific reasons why, during such a period of interest rate, it is precisely this security of supply that can contribute to a higher proportion of domestic work, and in what way this is being introduced into these procurements.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u73	Irade the Talman! Representative Judgments raised international crisis management issues. In Afghanistan, the war has continued in its present form for more than 20 years. There are already another generation of soldiers present in international forces, which is quite incomprehensible in many ways. Yesterday, President Trump announced that the United States will leave there before Christmas. Of course, this can be considered the truth or, if so, trumpetism, but how will it affect this Resolute Support Mission and Finland’s presence in Afghanistan? Will it continue as before, or will this have some impact on it and the situation of Finnish soldiers?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u74	Mr President! The main lines of this Ministry of Defence budget are in order and are easily supported. That's why I'm focusing on one particular thing. The Finnish Defence Forces have been affected by the Korona crisis, for example, as a request for assistance at the time of the closure of Uusimaa. Some civilian service men are under the shadow of military servicemen. The question has arisen as to what civil service is at the top of the list if those in or in civilian service are not used during the corona crisis for various tasks. Mr President! I see that both military service and civilian service are important and motivated to play their part in our country. I would ask the Minister for Defence: how could civil service be developed in such a way that it would benefit society, for example, in situations such as the corona crisis we are experiencing here?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u75	Madam President! It is great that in an independent state, as we heard from the Minister, the HX project is progressing, the Fleet project is progressing. But I would have asked the Minister at the same time: What is the negotiating position for Senate properties and defence properties? For example, what is the role of air protection at the moment, such as air defence in the capital region? Is there a sufficient amount of reform, for example, of Stinger missiles and others? What is the situation at the moment? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u76	Let us take two more speeches before the Minister answers. Next, Mr Kimmo Kiljunen and then Mr Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u77	Mr President! The Minister has already opened his speech by saying that this defence budget is historic, and it is of scale, and the main reason is the replacement of this Hornet equipment. It is rightly justified from the point of view of the security of the country. We currently have five options under competitive tendering, and the tender is special in that it is a fixed-price competition, with price set and performance set as a key competitive criterion. However, in addition to military capabilities for the security of the country, there are other factors that may be even more important than pure military capabilities. This acquisition of destroyers will also create a long-term strategic dependence, and I would hope that there will also be a debate on it. In addition, Mr Essayah also pointed out that a project on such a large scale — EUR 10 billion now has this procurement situation — has a major employment, research, technological impact on the country of origin, too, if it is properly generated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u78	Madam President! First of all, thank you to the Minister and the entire Defence Forces. The way in which the Defence Forces survived this corona crisis is exemplary. What's going on? What's going on? The military has shown, it's been excellent. This draft budget may be described in many respects, but in particular by the defence administration as a budget of law and order. It impales and invests an unprecedented amount in the defence of the country, safeguarding the independence of the country. Now that the Navy project is in good shape and the Air Force's HX project is moving forward, as the Minister said in his first speech, I would like to ask how future investments in the Army will be secured. I believe that this current level, i.e. next year's budget, more than 2% of GDP, is a level that should also be maintained after the HX project.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u79	And now, Minister Kaikkonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u80	Mr President! In three minutes, it'll be tough, but we'll do what we can. To Kanerva: Finland—Norway—Sweden cooperation is mainly financed from articles other than the articles of international cooperation. No substantial changes to the level of cooperation are planned in other respects. Let's continue our active cooperation. Representatives Ronkainen and Könttä asked about the situation in the Army. When these acquisitions of the Navy and the Air Force come on top of the old defence budget, the capabilities of the Army can be secured at that old defence budget level also in the coming decade. Undoubtedly, it is always possible to build more needs in your mind, but so much more effort is coming to the Defence Forces that I will not dare ask much more, and yes, the Defence Forces estimate that this will be all right. Representative Kalli, the training of the reserve will be developed. Information impact will also be more closely taken into account in the development of both military and reserve training. There is also going to be an electronic service system that will be interesting — it will apply throughout the service period. But let's get back to that later, it's only in the early stages of development. Representative Halla-aho, this project compares overall performance. It's just like you said that this number of songs is no longer... Or when you asked, the number of copies is no longer the most significant thing here. Of course, when an overall assessment is made, let's see how many machines, but let's also look at armaments, the rest of the whole system, and the defence administration compares these five entities, how they compare with each other, and emphasizes performance. The price cap doesn't bend. That 10 billion must be able to make this investment. Congressman Heinonen, Arctic Lock has been canceled. The holding will receive a national main military exercise in the next May to June. Let's explore the possibility of whether or not it's necessary to watch a similar exercise sometime later in the 20th century. It also makes sense to see what kind of exercises Sweden is going to have, for example, that no overlapping exercises would then take place, but there are no decisions on this issue at this stage. Congressman Holopainen, the joint smoking report is coming up next year. The role of women in peace-keeping — well, it is quite well within the objectives, but I do not agree that it would be good if we could go even further. Representative for the Judiciary: the Afghan operation — is not yet sure what will happen there, but it is possible that the situation will change there next year. We're looking into other possibilities. The aim is broadly to maintain that level, which we currently have. There is quite a lot of demand for Africa, for example, but this is all completely open at this stage, and there is a crisis in other parts of the world where Finland is needed. Representative Mustajärvi, Finland—Sweden—Norwegian cooperation does not change Finland’s NATO relationship. Representative Essayah, domestic work and industrial cooperation is a major part of this HX investment, you can see that, i.e. it can be taken into account. Here's a few questions I didn't answer. Let us also say to Mr Sankelo that civil servants are actually part of the Rome of Rome, where it is a good question to throw it. The Committee will be able to consider what is now going on — this parliamentary issue. And I hope that Mr Kiljunen will also respond to this question of industrial cooperation. All four supplier countries are our good defence partners. — Continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u81	Honorable Speaker! The HX project must always remember the latter part, the operating costs, and I think it may have come as a surprise to many journalists that Finland is quite strict with these operating costs. The business model of many may be such as to reduce the delivery price, but then put the additional costs into the fighter upgrades or other operating costs. I hope that Finland will insist on not exceeding these costs under any circumstances. A commission of 866 million to maintain and develop military capabilities: I would like to see a good degree of homeliness here, and if you can open this up a little, where this will be used, when 171 million will come next year. And there will be 4.4 million increases in contract soldiers, this is very good. — Thank you for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u83	Madam President! Replacement of outgoing performance is justified. It is also essential to maintain the conditions for defence and defence of the country. All the time we need to ensure that the Defence Forces in all quarters are renewed and taken into account in the changing environment. In the future, Finland must be involved in international peace activities and solutions to various crises. Cooperation between the authorities is a key part of the Defence Forces, and I hope that this task will also be strongly invested in. Korona has challenged official cooperation to completely new dimensions, and so far we have survived it and have been able to cooperate widely. I thank the Minister for being very moderate in the development of the Defence Forces, and that is why you have been raising Finland's weight in this area too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u84	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of Defense for Kaikko. As has been said here, the main lines are in order and the rest of the business is in play. Finland is a guarantor of peace and stability in this world at the moment, and, as Mr Kalli has already said, Finland is not currently facing a military threat, but a strong defence force and, in particular, the will to defend the country is a good thing to maintain, and for that I thank you for supporting the activities of defence organisations with almost EUR 5 million. It is good to continue to take care of this. As the son of the north itself and as an old military player, we currently only have the military band of Lapland in the north, and although it does not, of course, reach this budget, as a matter of referral, as a reminder, I would suggest that in the future, when Kainuu is one of the largest military forces in the country, we should also think about putting back the military band of Kainuu — not in this budget but in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u85	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for the presentation, for the good answers and also to colleagues for the excellent speeches and questions. It is quite incredible that, in fact — and I have understood this — the military staff's feedback on training this year has been very good. In view of the exceptional circumstances, it is a tremendous achievement, which should tell us that the interest rate modulation system was successful, probably in conjunction with the Education 2020 programme and the reforms that we are doing anyway. And I would have ensured that this Education 2020 will be able to move forward next year, despite the corona. And as a second question: We are used to doing good with a small budget, but there is still a problem at European level with the cost-effectiveness of defence, that is, with regard to the money that the EU countries spend on defence, the ability that we can obtain could be better, or could actually be achieved with less. What does defence cooperation in Europe look like, this intensification, next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u86	Mr President! There are a lot of things I would like to ask a little bit about here — or, I'm sorry, about Minister Kaikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u87	Mr President! Indeed, there is no military threat at the moment, but there are many other threats. I would like to thank you, Minister, especially for what happened last spring when the corona crisis came and then we needed an operation when we had to clean these protective equipment. The Defence Forces played an enormous role in that, and you personally. My question is: what is the situation at the moment? What the Defence Forces created then with scientists and research institutes might be necessary now, as we will certainly be in a shortage of protective equipment at this rate. The second point relates to this voluntary defence of the country. We have great organizations in it. And when you think that these voluntary national defence organizations are specifically responsible for training and preparation, do you think that this corona crisis — in anticipation of the next crises — will also bring some changes to this activity? I hope it has already been taken under planning. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u88	Mr President! Minister, I would like to ask about the agreements. In 72 C.E., it was agreed to ban weapons of mass destruction. This agreement has not been updated to date and the framework of this agreement has in practice been left out of the scope of the agreement, such as precision weapons, laser weapons, certain types of weapons affecting the cyber dimension. When Finland, which is a strong country for this kind of reconciliation, is able to bring various actors to the table to agree on different things, what is this point, Minister of Defence Kaikkonen, Finland's position on this, how can we now take this forward? And then the second question relates to the defence of the EU. There are 27 countries with France, which is a nuclear power. How can we work even closer together?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u89	President! I will return to this price for the HX project. On the basis of the budget book, on the basis of this subscription authorisation, it would appear that the spike is actually open and that the EUR 10 billion price cap does not actually exist, even though we are talking about it. It is stated here that this 10 billion-dollar commission mandate can be exceeded by ‘changes in cost levels due to contractual links’. I think this entry means that the spike is actually open. After all, Parliament cannot know anything about the content of this contract when it is concluded in due course, and Parliament cannot therefore be aware, especially in this budgetary decision, of what these responsibilities, which can be exceeded, will be. For example, it also appears in the budget book that only ‘the amount needed to start operational preparedness’ will be acquired for machinery.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u90	Madam President! The Defence Forces have shown a great deal of crisis management by keeping the interest rate cases low, and thank you to the staff and also to the military. In this context, I would like to ask whether, in future, the use of the Defence Forces in other crisis management work, the anti-corona work with regard to the population, has now been planned, also referring to Mr Sankelo's question about the use of civilian servicemen in this work. Our human resources in the healthcare sector are already very limited and coming up. Then, in connection with the military service, when the coming winter is coming: Is it planned what practical arrangements will then be made for off-road housing and also for refresher exercises? Now there were some cases in the ruska exercise.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u91	Mr President! This government should be commended for its very positive attitude towards Finland's defence. A record amount of EUR 4.87 billion is invested in safety. The HX project is being carried out in full — it is, after all, available in this budget document. That is a very good thing. Similarly, refresher exercises, contract soldiers, national defence in general and voluntary national defence — all of them get the euro they deserve, that is, this security side is in order. My real question now relates to this international aspect and, indeed, to this operation in Afghanistan, where it is now read from the United States that there will be a very rapid withdrawal, but also to the position of the Minister of Defence. How now, with the State Department, has the situation in Afghanistan been analysed insofar as there will not be any sort of terrorist drawbacks in the near future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u92	Mr President! Minister, I would like to ask about EU defence cooperation at the level of concrete: has there been a clear analysis of what we benefit from each form of cooperation within the framework of national military capabilities? So there is a different general ambition, there is talk of a strategic compass and a similar one, but is there such a comprehensive analysis of national military performance in one place? Are you going to do that if you don't have one?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u93	Madam President! I myself would like to ask about these HX procurements, and right away I, as a layman, have followed this process and I agree that this disappearing performance must be replaced. But I'd like to ask you if you could tell me about this overall assessment. But now that the defence administration and the army have certainly been responsible for this preparation, has this project been carried out just as from outside such an overall assessment, which would be separate from this defence administration's assessment? In my opinion, it is important that we individual parliamentarians, who, however, decide on this most expensive purchase in the history of Finland, receive as neutral and objective information as possible on what is needed to ensure that the full reimbursement of this amount of performance is possible. So, in practice, I would like you to take a stand on this dependency relationship, Minister. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u94	Madam President! At the very beginning: when the representative of the Judgments was concerned about the term ‘smuggling capacity’,the so-called ‘responsible officer’,thatthere is also a need to act in the course of a defence war.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u97	Madam President! International defence cooperation has already been mentioned in many speeches. After all, international major military exercises measure the expertise of the Defence Forces, and multi-national exercises are of many benefits to Finland, these exercises are very important. Now there's no practice because of the corona. For example, Mr Heinonen's Arctic Lock exercise will be replaced by a national military exercise and, Minister, you have already spoken about this in your own response. Unfortunately, no one has information on the duration of the interest rate, and I would ask the Minister: how do you see that all this will affect international defence cooperation that is important to Finland? And another important point: how is the development of women’s military service?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u98	Madam President! Air defense, anti-aircraft and anti-aircraft, large-scale anti-aircraft forces and civil protection: I used the example of Saudi Arabia, which is a very well-equipped military force, in my earlier speech last year, and they were beaten to pieces by ten drones. As far as our vision is concerned, air defense is an extremely important issue, but it does not always determine the size and size of the equipment, but how we can react agilely and how our machinery is also prepared for this new technology, which is being developed all the time, unfortunately also on the side of the military in a negative sense. How, Minister, do you respond to this: how can our anti-aircraft side respond to these new instruments of war, what is being developed all the time? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u99	Madam President! In fact, there is only one flagrant issue of equality that has not been resolved in Finland. The silence of the conversation around it aches the ears. The defence of the country still applies only to men, even if we have good women full of Finland. At this point, inequality is not a question of interpretation, since military service only applies to men, and it is in itself a violation of the spirit of the Constitution as far as equality is concerned. When a 20-year-old teenage boy and a teenage girl refuse to perform military service, only a teenage boy will be sent to prison. In Israel, both men and women go to the army. Equal service is not just an issue of equality; it raises the national will and understanding of the overall security of the nation. Minister Kaikkonen, do you think that military service should be extended to all citizens? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u100	Madam President! Of course, women's participation brings to mind crisis management, both military and civilian crisis management. Finland has taken great strides in it and has done a great job, but unfortunately there is a message from other EU countries that send only men to many operations, for example. After all, we now have this parliamentary committee to consider the goal of crisis management in the coming years and beyond, but in what way, Minister, will you ensure that these operations, which will take place in the future, are even more effective and take account of its overall nature and, above all, how will we be able to contribute to increasing the position of women and the participation of women in other countries and not just in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u101	Mr President! There is a record in the Government Programme that the ability of women to perform voluntary military service and to serve in the Defence Forces will be improved, inter alia, by raising awareness of women's military service. This is a very important entry when we want the best capabilities of the age groups to be used by the Defence Forces, but the fact is that from a military point of view the Defence Forces do not need compulsory military service for the entire age group. However, despite this good record of government programmes, there is no mention in the draft budget of the development of women's military service. I'm asking: isn't the government trying to develop a government program entry?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u102	Mr President! A word about the military service, which is also of personal interest — my own son is now performing his duty of defence in Niinisalo. These times have indeed been challenging to organize the military service, but with admiration I have followed this security organization that has been carried out in the Defence Forces. Thank you so much for that. President! Although the garrison has indeed expressed gratitude for the time of the garrison in several studies, there may still be an increasing number of problems in garrison status, one of which relates to mental health problems and the other to physical fitness problems. I believe that both appear, of course, to be a major national welfare problem, but perhaps also a national defence problem. I would like to ask the Minister: how is such a military capacity?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u103	Mr President! The military has a big role to play in the lives of young people. They see almost the entire age group at least on the men’s side, and then the Defence Forces also have a lot of influence on their lives. It was recently reported that the garrison has deteriorated and the results of Cooper's tests are record low. Then it occurred to me to ask the same question as Mr Kivisaari here just now: How has this been reacted to, and has there been a debate? Do the Defence Forces have resources for such well-being training? This is the case, of course, that good physical and mental condition is also important in crisis situations, if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u104	In this debate, I will give four more speeches and then a longer reply to the Minister: Mr Ronkainen, Mr Kinnunen, Mr Kari and Mr Kanerva and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u105	Mr President! The budget has taken into account the increase in the number of staff and tasks under the Government Programme. The number of staff working years in the Defence Forces is increasing, and the direction is, of course, correct, but unfortunately in the big picture quite inadequate. There is a message from the airport that there are too few staff in relation to the workload. According to the reports, the Defence Forces would require up to 1,500 new employees. There are a lot of things that put a lot of pressure on the staff. One thing that may be an explanatory factor is this working time law, which dates back to 1970. There might be a need for change. Employers have, of course, believed that the law still serves well, but the representatives of the organisations are of the opinion that it should be updated in line with the general working time law. How can you, Minister, see whether the working time law is still good or whether it should be updated?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u106	Madam President! My third son performs military service and receives high-quality education in Kainuu. Thank you to Minister Kaikkonen, the Government and the Defence Forces for their success during the corona and for this patriotic budget. The rotation system for compulsory military training works well there. Much is learned in the ministry also for working life. The University of Vaasa now accepts the training of military officers as ready-made studies in all degrees. It is a great opening on the road to continuous learning and cooperation. My question to the Minister for Defence is: will the Defence Forces contribute to such a positive development that its training in the spirit of continuous learning is accepted as performance in the following institutions? And secondly, how could the Defence Forces cooperate with schools in maintaining the will to defend the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u107	Madam President! As the Vice-President of the Defence Committee, Jari Ronkainen of the Finns Party, said, this increase in the number of staff is quite inadequate, yet it is clearly more than you could achieve during your own reign. I agree that there is still work to be done. But I would have renewed the question — Minister, I understand that not everyone will be able to answer in three minutes: can we be sure that next year the HX project will progress to the Government by the end of the year, taking into account this corona crisis and its difficulties? Then there is the second question: Industrial cooperation — it is about EUR 3 billion for Finnish industry, competitiveness, innovation, knowledge and so on. Can the EUR 3 billion be taken to this start of the project as much as possible to help recover from the interest rate, create new jobs and so on — and not just to divide it into the last years of the project?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u108	Mr President! It has also become clear in this debate that our defence has been dealt with in an exemplary way — well done. One of the added value we seek for our defence is this international cooperation and partnership. There are many, many elements in that box: bilateral agreements with nine countries, one agreement with three countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u111	Minister Kaikkonen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u112	Mr President! At least Mr Nieme did not answer for the first round: air defence is being developed, and there are projects there too. Representative Kyllönen asked about this same issue, both as regards drones and high influence. We both have projects coming up. Representative Vähämäki, the cost of operating the HX project is important. It will be taken into account in this selection and their ceiling is defined in this invitation to tender. What can this industrial cooperation be, and what can that timetable be? It is part of this competition and is also partly a question of negotiation, even with regard to its timetable. Mr Kiuru, intelligence legislation has been very important, one of the most important decisions of the last Parliament. It has proved to be effective and good. Of course, it has only been in operation for quite some time, but it seems to be working as it was intended. Representative Counterfeit, cooperation with the authorities is very important. Probably the most spectacular example of it was the Defence Forces' corona service in the isolation of Uusimaa. 800 conscripts and 50 progenitors helped the police. Congressman Kettunen: The military band in Kainuu — I do not promise it from this stand, but if I promised to visit the Kainuu Brigade in the beginning. Representative Harjanne, Education 2020 is progressing. It is true that the military's feedback has been very good before the corona, but perhaps even as a little surprise even during the corona period the feedback has been very good, that is, what comes from the garrison when they stop the service and ask what it was like, what you thought. This is a long time series, which means it's real. The question of defence cooperation in Europe was more than that. There are quite a few arrangements in which Finland is involved. During this parliamentary term, the most important new opening was that Finland—Sweden—Norwegian. They are now beginning to exist to the extent that there is now no special need to seek more, rather to see how they develop, where there is vitality, where there is genuine benefit for Finland. There is no need for any immediate reduction, nor do I say that, but time will tell us where they will be more vital and beneficial to our domestic defence and European cooperation. Of course, I would think it sensible for the EU to organise this cooperation as much as possible so that very far into the future there would not be very many different structures, but this is not, of course, entirely up to us. Representative to Mäenpää About defense property, this schedule: That, according to my information, should be out of this house at week 48 so that it can come into force from the beginning of next year. This is now in the committees, in other words, it is more in the hands of Parliament than in the hands of us. If not, there will be a delay of some months. It'd be a little annoying, but it's not like the world's gonna fall over. The most important thing is to bring about good legislation. I hope, of course, that it will come out on schedule and that you will deal with these content issues and, if necessary, make changes if there is agreement on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u115	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The sitting shall be adjourned and resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u116	Now, after 12 p.m., item 3 of the order of business is closed. It's where the Department of Labour's business is to be presented. — Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u117	Mr President! The Government aims to enable a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable society. Although Finland has been shaken by this year, the promotion of this goal has remained strong. This crisis has hit us all, and it will continue to do so. Despite this uncertainty in the future, reconstruction has already begun and will be done through good cooperation. Yes, many of our goals now require greater effort than we anticipated a year ago. On the other hand, the problems we face as a result of the corona virus also bring us opportunities to regenerate. We really need reforms, and we are also doing reforms. In the budget debate, the government decided on a new employment target. With the interest-rate crisis, it is clear that we will not achieve the employment target of 75% in this parliamentary term, but we will take decisions on 80 000 additional workers in this parliamentary term. This is a tough target, but to achieve it we have already made a number of important decisions, both before this budget debate and in this budget debate. New measures will be decided again at the Government's mid-term debate next spring. However, the employment target cannot be solved by means of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy’s tools alone. Its achievement now requires good cooperation and extensive measures from a wide range of administrative sectors. As regards the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, large entities are now being taken forward with their own impressive role in achieving the goal. In order to strengthen employment, I want Finland to move more strongly to the Nordic line. It is now a matter of significant changes, because Finland is dragging the other Nordic countries behind in terms of both quality and quantity of employment services and the employment of people with part-time work. Now we are putting employment services in place once and for all, and as Minister of Labour, I am particularly pleased that, at last, this country recognises the role of employment services in boosting employment — their value is recognised. Who would have thought a year ago that one of the most effective reforms to boost employment was employment services? Hardly anyone. For too long, far too long, there has been talk of trick jobs, of faceless officials, while at the same time the example of the Nordic countries has been telling us quite different things for years. It is the tight and individual service structure that strengthens employment. Now this has finally been identified by the government in Finland, and this will change. Preparations for this reform are now under way. We reserve EUR 70 million for the Employment and Economic Development Offices, and this additional funding is estimated to employ approximately 1200 additional people for the Employment and Economic Development Offices. In the future, the job seeker will also choose for himself which job opportunities he or she is looking for. It takes into account the applicant’s ability to work, skills and labour market situation. At the same time, we will also moderate the whole carnage system. The overlong and unreasonable cartels are being abandoned, so here and in many other areas we are now on a good path, on the Nordic side. Finland has also for too long neglected people who are able to work part-time and their desire and also the opportunity to participate as full citizens in the building of society. This is the right time to recognise the following fact, because each of us has the skills that can be used in the labour market when it is seen. However, not all of us are able to use this knowledge alone, and often it needs help. That is why the purpose is now to build a Finnish model of employment in the intermediate labour market, the Mediator. The work will start with a study defining the content of this model, the organisation of activities, the forms of financing and other implementation arrangements, with the aim of starting this up by 2022 at the latest. In building the model, we will take advantage of the example of Samhall in Sweden and the results of the Finnish work bank experiment. The position of the part-time workers will also be improved as a result of changes to the pay subsidy. The wage subsidy rate for part-time disabled people will be raised to 70%, and other employment-friendly services will be closely linked to their pay support period in particular. The organisations will maintain 100% wage support. The Nordic example also encourages the government to move forward on this front. We must also take into account and look after young people. In August, the number of young unemployed job seekers aged under 25 was 42,000, which is 12,400 more than in the year before. We are now working to reverse this trend. Among other things, we are reforming apprenticeships, establishing low-threshold services for mental well-being, and they will be offered in the Cabins. We secure the resources of the Cabs in such a way that the customer can be managed individually and in a cross-cutting manner. The Government is also preparing such a counter-money-based incentive model, which would provide municipalities with a greater incentive to recruit training and social work professionals to the Drivers. The model is being prepared for funding from the EU recovery package. We will also prepare for a temporary start-up experiment for under 30-year-olds, where we will spend more on employment to train business and support the early stage of entrepreneurship. Finally, an overview of the employment situation. Finland has been hit by this crisis, but not as badly as the rest of the world. From an economic and health point of view, we have done very well so far, but uncertain times continue, and the main issue of uncertainty is that of half the Question Time, the Corona virus, which was mentioned in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u118	Mr President! As you well know, the preparation of the draft budget for next year has taken place in very exceptional circumstances and the outlook is unfortunately foggy. We cannot know when the pandemic situation will improve and, ladies and gentlemen, this will, for example, significantly increase the burden factor for companies. That is why decisive decisions are needed to create a vision for the future. There was no information on the interest rate in the preparation of the current government programme, but on the other hand the interest rate underscores the objectives of the government programme. The Government Programme builds on the objective of sustainable growth. All efforts to achieve sustainable growth are vital for Finnish consumers, businesses and post-column economic development. First of all, we must ensure that as many healthy companies as possible survive the interest rate. Secondly, we need to make it possible for the business community to develop a new environment that will safeguard new business opportunities. Thirdly, we must do everything we can to ensure that Finnish companies continue to be competitive. To overcome the crisis, we need to work together. This skill is needed above all in the reconstruction work that does not wait for itself. Even so, Finland has been doing fairly well in the circumstances of uncertainty so far. We have supported Finnish business and Finnish entrepreneurs through numerous decisions and actions, and this work will continue. The Government will undertake reforms in cooperation with all the social partners, municipalities and regions, so that everyone will be involved in the work of sustainable growth. The prospects for the near future are, as I said, relatively foggy and gloomy. The Finnish economy is going to have a cold and dark winter — I have already said this and I will repeat it here too. It is therefore up to us to support the entrepreneur, as the Finnish entrepreneur is the cornerstone of the national economy. We can compensate companies for their costs, build instruments to support companies and make decisions that create predictability. It is precisely predictability that is what an entrepreneur needs. From the point of view of the Minister for Industry, I would like to highlight the additional financial efforts we have made to alleviate the plight of entrepreneurs. First of all, we raised Finnvera's financial powers from 4.2 billion to 12 billion. Through Business Finland, we granted nearly EUR 1 billion to companies, EUR 300 million through Ely Centres, nearly EUR 100 million for catering entrepreneurs, EUR 250 million for municipalities to support sole entrepreneurs, and we granted cost support to companies over EUR 120 million through the Treasury. In addition, we increased equity financing through an investment in industry by EUR 400 million and R & D loans through Business Finland by EUR 300 million. All these measures have been a big investment in the success of the national economy, or companies. We have succeeded in correcting and supplementing the aid package along the way. We shall continue to do this work, and this work will require support from all the parliamentary parties, and that is what I have received so far. We have just started preparing a new form of support. It is a continuation of cost support for companies. With this general aid, we seek to support the various sectors that have been disciplined by the interest rate. The Government proposal on cost support will be submitted to Parliament during the autumn period. It is clear that more than hundreds of millions of euros will be proposed for aid of a scale. In the budget debate, we agreed on important measures to strengthen the competitiveness of industry. The industrial electricity tax will be reduced to the EU minimum, the energy tax cutter will gradually be phased out during the two governments, the indirect cost compensation subsidy will be prepared, and so on. The 21 draft budget also responds to these challenges. Financing for R & D, grants,businessfinland provides EUR336 million for ongoing loans totalling EUR147 million. We will continue to provide well-functioning production aid for the audiovisual sector in 21 C.E. The aid has proven its functionality and boosted foreign productions to Finland and high-quality domestic productions, which are now spreading to the world. As I said, we have significantly increased business funding, and these investments are also reflected in the 21st draft budget, with payments of more than half a billion euros. We also increase VTT's funding. Over 20 million will be earmarked for the implementation of the international programme for the year 21. The most important thing, however, is that Finland survives the corona. In order to support sustainable growth, we need these conditions. Mr President! I mentioned predictability in the past, it is needed now more than ever. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u119	And now, ladies and gentlemen, it is an opportunity to have that debate. Press the V button if you want to ask any questions to the ministers present.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u120	Mr President! The best employment policy is that we manage the services suited to the needs of the job seeker in a timely manner, and for all of this the government is now investing in, among other things, 1200 new officials to do the important work in the face, which is related to job placement and job search monitoring — thank you. After much criticism of the opposition, it is also forgotten that this government has done a tribute to education policy by investing in knowledge, education and research. This will be accompanied by an extension of compulsory education and a reduction in early childhood education fees, which will also be the means of raising the employment rate. In your own presentation, Minister, you have opened up to some extent the better access to the intermediate labour market for part-time workers in the future, which is the big goal of the government. I hope that you will be able to open it up further in this debate on the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u121	Mr President! Yesterday, Finance Minister Vanhanen said very well that the most massive climate action of the government next year is to reduce the electricity tax on industry. Secondly, I am sure it will be aid for the electrification of industry. These both speed up the operating conditions of Finnish industry, secure and increase jobs in a sustainable way and combat global warming. Finnish companies and industry have been at the forefront of climate maps and actions towards renewable energy, circular economy and resource wisdom. Europe has long sought first place in the fight against climate change. Last week, however, we received a strong competitor, namely China. China’s announcement tells us that the trend towards low-carbon societies is accelerating. It is very important, of course, not only for our living conditions, but also for our economy and jobs in the future, that Finland is in this front line, and many large Finnish companies are
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u122	Mr President! Minister Haatainen spoke of the Nordic job search model, i.e. the active model of the second. At the beginning of the season, active model number one was repealed, that's a good thing. In the explanatory statement there was often the fact that no impact assessment could be made as to the benefit of it, and it also affected the most aged working population, much of it targeted them. Now the government is making an active model number two, and the same mistakes are being repeated. There are no control groups or areas to compare between different people, whether it is useful or not, but to get people to make those applications, trick applications, lots of them. The government will then reserve EUR 70 million and 1200 employees, albeit only for 2022. I would now like to ask Minister Hatainen: what is better now than the active model of Sipilä's government in number two, which had almost the same issues?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u123	Mr President! The better part of this model is that the active model number one is not valid. In other words, it would be absurd for the unemployed to be obliged to find work in order to obtain full unemployment benefit, and on top of it would be built a model in which they would still be obliged to apply for work without personal service or without tailoring that obligation to their personal nature — unlike this new individual job search model is now taking place. But I asked for the floor because I think it is very valuable that the Minister has promoted this kind of rapid therapy for young unemployed people, because, in fact, mental health reasons are the main cause of disability pensions at the moment and those problems often start at a very young age, and if we get to grips with them earlier, then we will be able to save the lives of young people and save the workforce for the Finnish labour market — for which I thank you very much. And a big congratulations on finally making a decent contribution to employment services, because when
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u124	Mr President! When there is cause, praise must be given. I welcome the progress made in the model of this individual job search and the implementation of these municipal trials. I also hope that they will become permanent. I would also like to thank you for the fact that, while you were fiercely opposed by the opposition to this active model 2, you then found in the government that this model, prepared by Minister Lindström, is very good and effective. But my real question is: how are these employment groups? They have now been sitting for the second year, and there has yet to be any results. What are they doing? Is there something coming from there, too, in connection with the local settlement? And is the Minister of Labour satisfied with the work that has been done so far in the trialogue? In fact, the employment situation in Finland is very serious, and now we should have the means to manage and keep people's jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u125	Mr President! Like Mr Filatov, I am concerned that, last year, mental health problems were the main reason for being on disability pension. We need to catch young people, especially those who are excluded from education and work. They are a particularly vulnerable group because they often have different mental health problems and potential learning difficulties. At present, a large proportion of young people with mental health problems are not seeking treatment. It is therefore very important that the government decided in its employment activities to establish low-threshold mental health services for young people as part of the operations of the Cabins. The effectiveness of these services has been very good. If we manage to break the current trend and halve the number of people on disability pensions, we can have almost 10,000 more people on the labour market in this decade. It is therefore a very hard employment policy to take care of today's mental health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u126	Mr President! For my part, I would like to thank the good guidelines of the government, which are specifically focused on employment and employment issues, which now take account of human beings as a human being, and thus become this kind of personal service and human attachment. In society, jobseekers must also meet as another person. However, I would have asked Minister Lintilä when, through Finnvera, we have quite a variety of responsibilities for the shipbuilding industry, and now this corona, the global crisis, can certainly bring shipowners into a situation where they can go bankrupt and so on. Has it been estimated what risks our securities through Finnvera can be if this kind of bigger bankruptcy wave comes from that cruiser shipowners?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u127	Mr President! Strengthening the Employment and Economic Development Centres is extremely important. Workers need more personal and close guidance. At the same time, there is a need to step up cooperation with entrepreneurs so that companies seeking employees also become faced with successful recruitment. What are you, Minister? Lintilä, would you like the TE Centres to support companies? When you hire a large number of employees at the TE Centre, you have to ensure their skills, because it is a very complex and demanding job. Minister Haatainen: how do you intend to ensure that employment services are equal in skills across the country? Unfortunately, this small exercise and mask also cause problems for the health care professional.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u128	Mr President! In the article on Business Finland's operating expenses, you can find a record that Finland participates in the Dubai World Fair at the expense of millions of euros. According to the argument, this is intended to promote the internationalisation of Finnish companies and to improve Finland’s attractiveness for tourism and investment by strengthening the country image. However, the Corona virus epidemic has significantly reduced travel and, as far as I know, Finland has never been a special destination for tourists used to taste the Gulf. According to Business Finland's own statistics, most tourists come to Finland from Russia, Germany, Britain, Sweden and China. Overnight stays by Indian, Chinese, French, Estonian and Austrian citizens have grown most. Mr President! In this light, I ask Minister Lintilä whether it makes sense for Business Finland to invest millions in the Dubai World Fair, or could the money used to promote tourism be better matched by increasing Finnish marketing in those countries that are currently becoming tourists to Finland and the Nordic countries? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u129	Mr President! Minister Lintilä, you have just said that the most important thing in this situation is that our businesses survive the corona. For example, if we look at what has happened today, the restaurant sector has shown itself to be overly restrictive of interest rates, which are, in fact, currently under discussion in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Looks like we haven't learned anything about the summer situation. At the same time, the event sector and the travel agency sector are still awaiting decisions. And I would remind you that we were dealing with these restrictions and, in fact, with the corona subsidies already in June, and that the Ministry was then required that a specific set of criteria be introduced in these areas to enable them to be supported. And still no such aid or related criteria have come. Can you explain why?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u130	President! In recent months, the work of the government and parliament has rightly highlighted the numerous efforts that have helped businesses and entrepreneurs to stay on the surface and built a bridge over this difficult phase. In the middle of all this, however, you may forget the fact that there is still a large number of companies in Finland that suffer from a lack of skills. For example, we in Satakunta have a number of companies whose, could you say, the biggest bottleneck in the development of operations is the availability of skilled labour. This relates to the so-called problem of matching: on the one hand, there are unemployed people, but on the other hand there is also a great shortage of experts. What can we do about this? This is also related to attracting and getting international excellence here in Finland. I would like to ask the Minister: by what concrete means does the government intend to speed up the attraction of international experts and significantly faster employment in Finland, and then, on the other hand, in this country?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u131	Mr President, värderade talman! Indeed, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for the last six months we have been talking about supporting businesses, the last time we closed down restaurants, a lot of services, which is extremely important. But I would also like to raise this export industry, because without it, we will never get through this. I also see that there are excellent opportunities on that side if you look at investments in energy, environment and climate technologies, possibly up to two to three thousand billion globally over the next decade, according to some estimates. And I personally hope that Finland, as a small smart country, will take on this new type of public-private partnership, specifically at a global level. And I would perhaps like to hear Minister Lintilä's comment on this first. How do you generally see the operating conditions of the high-processing export industry? How can we support them? And above all, the export potential of global climate technology, how do we make full use of it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u132	Mr President! There has been a lot of discussion here about the active model, and it is now important that the active model number one is cancelled and that this active model number two does not come. Perhaps the key difference in this Nordic welfare model is that of course we think that people must seek employment — the starting point is that the unemployed seek and seek work — but in this case the unemployed can fail and not be punished for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u133	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is important that Finland's competitiveness is maintained even after this interest period. We need businesses and we need energy technology and so on, but here was this interesting wind power support. It is still quite large, i.e. EUR 279 million. Do you see that it's on a reasonable level? And then I think about the coal: EUR 18 million has been spent on investments to replace coal. Do you see what kind of schedule it makes sense to get rid of this coal? Then there was another interesting question here, actually I was surprised by it, it was like a single, “Guayana Space Centre fees”. That was 760,000. Would it have made sense during this time, during the corona, to skip this kind of space center fee even if? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u134	Mr President! This, too, is a valuable piece of work for us to go through the budget book carefully and, in fact, I would have taken the same step. Here, among other things, representative Taimela rightly highlighted the importance of 1200 new TE officials as part of this Nordic job search model, which the Government and the Ministry of Labour have cross-referenced with the slightly tailor-made version of the two active models. I would have addressed the fact that, when I myself went through this yellow book for the main category of the Ministry of Employment, I could not find this sum of EUR 70 million for employment services there, then I could not find this sum of more than a thousand officials coming from. This isn't supposed to be financed by some kind of temporary other basket, is it? Then, of course, it would only be for one or two years. I hope there's a natural explanation for this. The second question I would like to ask is that the single entrepreneurs now have access to this unemployment benefit, which has saved more than 40,000 entrepreneurs from a difficult situation this year:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u135	Mr President! With interest, I have been very concerned about the future of the tourism industry, which we have tried to develop in Finland as a growing industry in the past. Tourism seems to be particularly distressed, and it is obviously linked to the plight of event production and restaurants, which has also been discussed here in the Chamber. Much has been said about restaurants, but less has been done to compensate for the loss of event production and tourism, which, of course, are worse hit by this requirement for cost support, just as Minister Lintilä has said. The field of events consists of a diverse number of actors, but it is not a small sector of activity. In addition to subsidies, the development of sustainable domestic tourism is certainly a good solution, and I ask the Minister what the government has done and intends to do in order to maintain and strengthen domestic tourism and event production that has grown as a result of the interest rate in a sustainable, employment-friendly and local economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u136	Mr Essayah and then the ministers have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u137	Thank you, Mr President. The TE administration is getting more funding, and it is indeed important that we get these employment services to the same level as they are in other Nordic countries. At the same time, then, we are carrying out this municipal experiment, and of course it now comes to mind that when, unfortunately, employment appears to be falling and the number of unemployed is increasing, what we are doing is making sure that there are sufficient resources in the municipalities as well, when we start to carry out these municipal experiments, that it is not now that the investments are on the side of the TE Centres and then, on the part of the municipalities, people are wondering, for example, about young people or immigrants or others who are less well employed. You have said here that these pilots are actually looking for that funding entirely from the recovery fund. Is this a bit of an idea that, while we have not yet approved these national action plans, is this funding?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u138	And now let's give the ministers a chance to answer. Secretary Haatainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u139	Mr President! Firstly, this funding for the Nordic model: 70 million, it is coming to the 22nd budget, but we have received 40 million in the amending budget, which we will be launching these recruitments as soon as this legislation has been prepared for that stage. In other words, next year this will be launched, and the legislative process is under way. It was hoped from the right and the left to open up what this Nordic model is, and there seems to be interest in it throughout the hall. That is a good thing, because here we are using the Swedish model and the Danish model, where the services are really strong. [ Arbitrators from the Group of the European People's Party] and where the TE Offices: [Base Finns Group : Lindström Model! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u140	Mr President! I'm very close. First of all, Mr Kosonen, this aid for the electrification of industry will therefore replace the aid for emissions trading that is being removed. And it comes from the green electricity side, i.e. it suits Finland relatively well. We have an energy-intensive industry in heavy industry and money will be allocated to support it. These details will be specified during this preparation. Well, then to Mrs Myllykoski about the cruisers' risks to Finnvera: We currently have over 3 billion cruisers' funds outside Finnvera. We have reservations there, I think there are about ten billion if we take all that is in the order books, but at the moment there are about 3 billion people attached outside. Mr Lundén then asked about this world exhibition in Dubai. You don't want to leave that million because that department already exists there. This is because the Dubai World Fair has moved on for a year. I know it's there because I was there. So this actually comes, let's say, to the expenses that are now going to be accumulated there. Congressman Kauma asked about the criteria for aid. I couldn't quite figure out what the subsidies were. At the moment, we have an extension of cost support in preparation, if you could say so, on the side of general support. If you're referring to the restaurant side, they were made that day under the Emergency Act. At the moment, the legal basis is different. So I don't know what you're referring to. Mr Strand asked about support for exports. A very important thing, and that is the way to get Finland up. We now have an export and international growth programme, which we will be investing in fairly. He's had a good reception with everything. Then Mr Reijonen: wind power support. To the extent that the agreements exist, wind power subsidies must be maintained. I think that's one of the oldest rules of law. Lawyers can say that. In other words, the agreement can only be terminated with the consent of both parties and there are. That's where the coal support is. However, we have 60 million on the replacement side, so that we will be able to break away from it. Then there was the Guayana Space Center, and that's our international agreement. It must be remembered that Finland has moved to space time: we have satellites — I think there are currently four Finnish satellites in the sky — and we have very important companies, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u141	Mr President! Before being a Member of the European Parliament, I was able to work long in the field of employment management, and, quite honestly, if the employment policy pursued over the years should be characterised by a word, I would use words such as 'uncoherence' and'short-sightedness'. For this reason, I am now very happy to welcome this Government line, in which Finland finally moves on to this Nordic model, in which the unemployed people are not lumped, met as individuals, and where individual services are taken into account, including these personal needs and then changes in the requirements of working life. The great thing is that, for the first time, money is also being made available for the implementation of these services. [Muykkänen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u142	Mr President! The government has postponed its employment target until the end of the decade, which is, of course, regrettable in itself, partly understandable, apart from the fact that otherwise the government programme will not be reviewed. However, I hope that this poor unemployment situation will result in the government looking a little more realistically at this so-called labour shortage. In other words, although there are sectors and businesses here, which will certainly continue to need precise recruitment, we hardly need at least any massive, large-scale low-education immigration. It is precisely this humanitarian immigration that has been a chronic problem in Finland, and employment rates have been low. This is what I would like to ask you: since you are now taking the lead in Denmark, which is all right in these employment services, will you take the lead? Denmark also has to do with this issue of refugees and integration problems, such as the different segregations in the residential area and the actions they have taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u143	Mr President! There's a reference to people who can work part-time. I have previously been involved in these patterns, and actually in this debate as such, that when companies are directed pay subsidies, as they should be, yet, in accordance with their name, such people are able to offer a certain amount of it for the input, and this company, which then employs that group there, needs yes, say, appreciation in the future, because it is a two-way operation. There, too, the company may take longer than average to familiarise the person concerned with these tasks, but in any case it is valuable work. The second point I would like to repeat in this timetable, which was raised a little during that Question Time — perhaps to Lintilä — is that it would be extremely important to separate from the restaurant business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u144	Mr President! As Minister Lintilä said, there is an effort to support domestic tourism and improve marketing, and this is absolutely essential because tourism is in difficulty. If I was thinking about Hähtäri in my own municipality, where much has been invested in tourism, there is a great deal of living on it: In the spring, class tours were closed. The summer was good because there was a lot of domestic travel. Now the booking books are basically full of autumn vacations, but the threat is on because of this corona. It would therefore be extremely important to draw attention to those places under these various restrictions. Just as Mr Sankelo said with regard to restaurants that we do not classify everyone in the same basket, so with regard to these places, for example, there are open spaces outside where we can be and carry out more easily. In other words, it would now be very important to consider that these restrictions are, in a sense, local and local, also the environment of the company, that it is safe to be there. That is what I am encouraging the whole government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u145	Mr President! These low-carbon road maps have been prepared this year under the leadership of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, and they are probably ahead of us on a global scale. Now we just have to put them into practice, because they are mainly excellent. In practice, it reflects the need for zero-emission, secure and competitive electricity and heat — and thus underscores the word ‘non-emission’, not ‘renewable’. I would have asked: When there is talk of multiple amounts of electricity within a 20-year radius of the chemical industry too, how can we ensure that electricity does not become a bottleneck for this decarbonisation of our society? We have already heard about some instruments here, but how can this be seen, for example, in the preparation of an energy and climate strategy, that clean electricity is needed and much more?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u146	Mr President! Thank you very much to both ministers for the work you have done for the Finnish industry. At a time when almost all of our activities are hindered by an external factor, it is good to note that the decision-making capacity of the government is not paralyzed. It is precisely the measures requested by the export industry that have taken place: an industrial electricity tax on EU minima, a halve of fairway charges and an alternative to carbon duties. The industry of the future is changing, and we also have a place to hit. It is therefore also a pleasure to note, Minister Lintilä, that the strategy for renewables is also in preparation. I would like to ask: what is the timetable and composition for this strategy, and what will it contain?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u147	President! Based on the results so far, the dog has smelled corona infection four or five days before the PCR laboratory test on the nasopharyngeal sample showed positive results, says Docent Anna Hielm-Björkman of the University of Helsinki. In France, dogs have smelled the infection more than a week before a positive PCR test. It is estimated that training a thousand corona dogs would cost about 2 million. It's the same amount as what we have one day for testing. Koronadogs would be a preventive investment that would certainly help keep society more open, which would help many Finnish businesses and businesses, such as the event and tourism industries. Minister Lintilä, the corona is not about to be defeated, but it may be our problem for a long time to come. Have you considered such long-term cost-effective solutions that could save
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u148	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Lintilä for his work and attitude in dealing with both companies and entrepreneurs. I would therefore like to see this attitude of yours spread more widely in your government. Various subsidies have hit relatively well in the first wave, but now that this second wave is coming, we will have a lot of companies that are going to get in trouble again. In fact, we have many thousands of new growth-oriented companies with negative capital. The mortgages have now been used, the rents are now paid, and yet the outlook is foggy. These companies would now need a market-based loan, but with negative capital this is very difficult. Would it be someone, Finnvera or someone else who could capitalise precisely these companies in order to obtain a cheaper market-based loan from the market?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u149	Mr President! Pentikäinen, Chairman of Finnish Entrepreneurs, has publicly stated that the government has taken a pro-business policy if you look at it from the perspective of SMEs. ‘Enterprise aid, which has been distributed to at least one and a half billion enterprises, has Even in the budget debate, things came up that support Finnish entrepreneurship and industry,” said Puppie. Thank you, Minister Lintilä, for his excellent work. Mr President! The government does not create any jobs, but creates a framework for the company to employ. These measures have been taken, as the President of the Entrepreneurs has said, and Minister Lintilä has just said the same. For example, support solutions: the planned interest rate support will help businesses beyond the crisis phase, double depreciation of investments, dividend taxation for non-listed enterprises that encourage entrepreneurship, and entrepreneurship reduction have been secured, and so on. I would like to ask Minister Lintilä: The Ministry of Employment and the Economy has launched a programme of domestic ownership, which will be carried out on the bet of former Prime Minister Juha Sipilä. When can we wait?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u150	Mr President! Finland needs more work and factors for that work, only in that way will we be able to secure the services of this welfare state in the future. But in order to achieve these ambitious employment objectives, we need to see people as individuals and understand life situations as a sum of many things. For example, the unemployed are not just one group, but there are many different people with their own life story and different reasons why they are unemployed. It is therefore very good that the government is now investing in these individual services and diversifying ways of catching up with working life. And as we have heard here, it is very important that the young people are taken care of. There are many young people who are struggling with mental health and it is important that this support is now being provided. However, I would like to ask the Minister how, in areas where there is no Ohjaamo activity as a local service, these young people can now be provided with a similar resource or equivalent mental health service in support of job search?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u151	Irade the Talman! Regeringen har förbundit sig till en activ sysselsättningspolitik. Därför är det glädjande att vi ser att den nordiska modellen går vidare, att man också gör satsningar i kommunförsöken och så vidare.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u152	Mr. Speaker! I would like to continue with the targeted export refund that Mr Strand started with. This is indeed an exceptional situation in the coming years, that there is a market of tens of billions opening up to investments such as the green transition in which Finland has the best know-how. Let us take the example of modernising district heating systems and improving energy efficiency in them. It is typical of Finland, but there are quite few countries, mainly the countries of Eastern Central Europe, where the market exists. And now there will be specific targeted funding from the EU: both this regional development and cohesion funding and then this recovery package. How would such sectors, regions — waste management be another example in the same direction — find their sufficiently strong locomotive companies, consortia? Even small and medium-sized operators should be involved in the venture to go to tender and bring work to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u153	Mr President! The tourism and restaurant sector has already been raised today in several speeches in the Chamber, and rightly so. In Finland, you should start bringing more than 100,000 incomes to your home. With interest, tens of thousands of workers have been laid off, and a large number have been left without work. The government's latest plan is to limit the activities of restaurants, drive the restaurant and tourism industry into deeper swamps and threaten to take thousands and thousands of jobs out of the sector, according to estimates. In order to safeguard the operating conditions of the restaurant and tourism sector at the meeting, we already proposed, for example, an extension of the right to exit and a reduction in VAT on the licence. Of course, these measures alone will not save the sector, but they would certainly help. Minister Lintilä, in your reply you have already mentioned the investment in tourism marketing, I am sure this is necessary, but I would ask: what else do you intend to do in the government to save these thousands of businesses and jobs in the tourism and restaurant sectors?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u154	Mr President! I would like to thank the government for the support programmes presented during the corona crisis. They have helped very much those companies that have been able to benefit from the aid. I am glad that the companies in Åland have also been allowed to apply for subsidies. For Åland, the economic impact of the corona crisis has been brutal. The financial crisis was a light breath compared to this storm because it has hit the heart of the Åland economy: shipping, tourism and services. Unemployment rose to 13.4 per cent in May from 3.2 per cent in last year's May. The aid programmes have been very helpful, but because of their strict criteria they have not helped all companies. Of course, the criteria are important in order not to misuse the aid, but I would like to ask how the aid used is assessed and how it has been implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u155	Mr President! Minister Lintilä certainly deserves praise for these efforts during the corona crisis. Under your leadership, we have done a good job of rescuing businesses, not everyone has been saved, and that too is quite understandable in this situation; this is an exceptionally violent crisis. There has been a lot of talk here today about restaurants, the tourism sector and the new restrictions on it, and it has to be asked whether the alternative was being considered that these same restrictions would not have been imposed on the whole country — now that it has been said that certain restrictions will come to the whole country and can then be tightened up. Was it considered that it would also have been possible to go partly with lower restrictions or even without restrictions? And then this restaurant alve bill. I'd like to ask Finance Minister Vanhane if you could consider it. It could still save us from the restaurant, the tourism industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u156	Mr President! We know that there are many kinds of people among the workers, people in a wide range of life situations who have different needs and different challenges. I am pleased that the draft budget will enable these individual needs to be better taken into account. In order to ensure a smoother and more customer-oriented registration as a job seeker in the future, it is very important to increase the resources of the TE Offices. The Government’s objective to increase the number of TE Centre officials will be necessary next year. I would like to ask Mr Haatainen: how will the job seeker be supported in the search for a job, so that the job seeker is not left alone in the job search process?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u157	Mr President! The Government has taken care of and is taking care to improve the competitiveness of industry and the business outlook everywhere — everywhere in Finland. One good concrete example is that the strengthening of tourism will be achieved through the launch of this Sustainable Tourism 2030 programme, which includes the so-called Eastern Night Train links, i.e.: Even in Kainuu, the night train is likely to come back. It's great to have the Minister. The work done by Lintilä during the last parliamentary term will now be given concrete effect in this parliamentary term. Mr President! More vigorous steps are also taken towards bio- and circular economy Finland, speeding up the abandonment of coal, especially with energy support. But I would like to ask the Minister what is going on with biogas. There's going to be some action and maybe.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u158	And then the ministers' answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u159	Mr President! Mr Mäkinen asked how now to ensure the best possible outcome for the implementation of this Nordic model. Firstly, of course, by ensuring that resources are secured. 70 million is a huge budget, and almost 40% will now increase the budget of the TE Offices, which will provide closer, better and better quality services. In addition, the municipal trial starts now at the turn of the year, which means that there are now the resources of municipalities and TE Offices together. There is also a huge amount of expertise in municipalities that particularly supports the needs of groups that have already fallen into the Kela benefits: so many people are long-term unemployed, and then young people under the age of thirty and those with immigrant backgrounds. In other words, this will also reinforce the fact that we succeed in providing the unemployed with better service and faster access to work. The representative of the park asked how to look at this immigration policy. I am responsible for integration issues, but what I have raised in this area of my own administration is that the exploitation of foreign labour is being eradicated once and for all. So here's a pile of grips and legislation coming up, to get those who violate the law, to be held accountable, and to support the victim. Congressman Virta brought up these cockpits, and they were asked about by someone else here. At the moment, we have some 70 municipalities in which young people are quite widely reached. Of course, young people also receive mental health services through TE Offices. We also train employees in these Ohjaamos and TE Offices to meet young people because of this corona period
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u160	Mr President! Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go. First of all, Mr Sankelo distinguishes restaurants and nightclubs. I'm not fully familiar with that law. This is the decisions of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and I do not know more about its background. The representative Savola also referred to these localities: we are now making local differences, that is, there are these areas where there are restrictions. As a personal opinion, I am very much in favour of it. After all, it was quite difficult in the winter to justify to the owner of a Utsjoke restaurant why he keeps the restaurant closed when the nearest corona case is 500 km away. Representative Harjanne took on a very important issue, namely the low-carbon road maps. It could be said that it has been one of the success stories that has now existed, namely the low-carbon maps made by industry, and it is the focus and commitment in general. It will be part of our new industrial strategy in Finland. We're going to build it very far on top of it. There's the Industry Federation, there's the technology industry, there's the forest, there's paper, there's chemistry, there's energy, there's energy, and so on, and it's coming to the halfway line. Congressman Koponen asked me about the Coronars. I do not know more about them, but as a long-term measure, our stimulus package is probably the key to getting up from the corona. Wallinheimo, capitalisation of companies: to the extent permitted by Finnvera law. Finnvera’s law is relatively strict at this time, and those minus marks always make it difficult there. Representative Pylös, Finland's success programme: out in February 21. Representative Norrback, a good question is how many jobs have been saved. I'm sure it's hard to judge, but I'm sure it would be appropriate to go over it. Congressman Koskinen, the locomotive companies are, of course. Through Business Finland, we have this train company based on which we go out. Fear of what to do
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u161	It is clear that whether it is a question of changing, recommending or restricting people's behaviour, these effects clearly affect the sectors listed here several times. In particular, the organisation of various events, cultural events, restaurant activities and tourism are sectors in which the interest rate is exceptionally strong. During the budget debate, I was mainly able to explain to myself, from the Ministry of Finance, these various variations as to whether VAT could be used to counter this, whether it could work here. In the case of restaurants, perhaps the most interesting model would be that, for example, the quantities to be sold could be at a reduced VAT rate, but it is virtually impossible to separate it from the sale of grocery stores. And this support through VAT in general is an extremely expensive way for the state. Therefore, the main orientation in all preparations for the autumn's additional budget has now been in a cost support that would not look at the sector but would be comprehensive and criteria defined in such a way that there would be no interveners. This is what we are preparing together with Minister Lintilä's boutique.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u162	Mr President! The best job creation in this time period is all the measures that safeguard and support existing jobs, because far too many Finns have received a message and information today, either about dismissal or lay-off, and I therefore very much appreciate the long list of actions that Minister Lintilä listed in this initial hour about what we have done to facilitate the business world. But one of the additional measures that is needed is certainly local agreement, which, unfortunately, year after year has come to an end, especially in the case of non-organised companies and their problems. I myself have proposed a business ombudsman system, i.e. that there should be professionals in the open, who could act as intermediaries between employers and employees in small companies that do not have lawyers or managers. I have also presented this idea to both employees' organisations and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u163	Mr President! Youth unemployment and mental health problems are now growing alarmingly. Young people cannot wait until the end of the decade for employment measures to be carried out or to be affected at some point. It is very clear from the debate in this Chamber that much is being done, but the question is whether the right things are being done or whether action is being taken that is sufficiently effective. During the last term of government, active employment policies helped young people in particular. For the first time in years, the number of young people not in education and working life turned to a clear decline in Finland. And this was precisely because employment was pulling, and it helped young people to work. Young people suffer from weak government employment policies through two periods. The first is that access to the labour market is slowing down and can have far-reaching effects. The second reason is that the billions that are now required to be taken will then fall.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u164	Mr President! In the context of the social reform, there is a lack of clarity as to how employment services for people in need of support, and for young people in particular, would be implemented. In South Karelia, all employment services for those in need of support are concentrated in Eksote. Take the example of a young person who is looking for a job, but who has mental problems. He/she is provided with mental health services and health services, but he/she may also be provided with rehabilitative work activities. Now the rehabilitative work activities would be transferred to municipalities. However, it requires a decision in accordance with the Social Welfare Act, and this will result in a breakdown of this young person's comprehensive service package. I would now like to ask Minister Hatainen whether it is possible — it would be desirable — not to split up this whole, but to continue to be implemented in such a way that these services are centralised.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u165	Mr President! There has been a great deal of talk here about employment measures, but it would be good if we were also talking about working time. More and more jobs are concentrated in city centres and, for example, people with low incomes are forced to live further away because they cannot afford to live in central centres. This means that they often live in an area where there is no public transport and have to use their own car. MTT has studied this issue and stated that, for example, from Rymättylä to the centre of Turku, it is a long enough distance to not even accept work because travel costs are so high. So I ask the Minister: are you still considering fuel taxation issues or a reduction in commuting or a kilometer allowance, and if not, could there be another model to compensate for this, so that people with low incomes can continue to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u166	Mr President! I would like to thank the government for having, both before and at the time of the corona, wanted to create a long-term perspective for the future of Finnish work and entrepreneurship, especially for young people. The government did what had to be done and agreed on a package of jobs that, according to the Ministry of Finance, will provide us with at least 31,000 or even 36,000 jobs. I thank the government and Minister Hatais for tackling youth unemployment now. You have mentioned, Minister, a number of measures to help young people to work. It is important to build a future for young people to get training and get involved in working life. I think it is a very valuable thing for the government to want to create prospects for young people in this way. I would like to ask: in what way does the government intend to reform apprenticeships in order to employ young people?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u167	Mr President! The event sector directly employs 20,000 people in Finland and indirectly up to 175,000 people, and this sector is in an extremely difficult place. We are in great danger of losing many traditional, big events. Some of them have been able to be helped, but can we, as an example, be so that in our World Rally, which has been run 69 times, the 70th rally we will not see? Estonia, for example, supports these major events significantly, and I hope that we will also look in Finland for ways to help the field of events, concerts, artists — but also the sound industry and others — beyond this situation. This is a restaurant alvi question: I understand that it is expensive to calculate VAT, but it is also expensive if the restaurant does not become VAT euros at all. So that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u168	Mr President! During this corona crisis, the government has strongly supported companies through various instruments, including Business Finland, almost one billion euros, 300 million via ely centres, 250 million through municipalities and so on. Cost support has been granted to companies of EUR 120 million. And now we have a new cost support, a new instrument. This previous cost support had been resourced to the amount of 250 million. Less than half of it was granted because applicants did not meet these criteria. For example, one company’s equity was below the required capital of EUR 50000 and was therefore rejected. However, it has employed almost 20 people over the last twenty years, such as a sports company. With this new cost support now coming, will it become more flexible or more criteria, which can be used to estimate these companies that they would not have such a high percentage of rejection?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u169	Mr President! We live in a society where we have many families. Each family is valuable and right for itself. However, our societies and working lives do not yet fully recognise the needs of different families. Many shift - working parents struggle to find a place for children to take care of the family’s needs. Others wonder if it is economically possible to put a child in early childhood education, and others wonder whether it is even possible to plan on raising a family in order to stick to or get involved in working life. This government has wanted to better identify the needs of different families and help parents to better integrate into working life. I therefore ask what the government intends to do to promote parents’ opportunities to stay more closely involved in working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u170	Mr President! There's a point where the interest is going away and companies are starting to grow. I would have asked the Minister for Industry: are we prepared at this stage to allow these small companies to hire the first foreign worker? That problem would be a good solution now, so that we have elements to ensure that the entrepreneur can proactively take the first foreign worker into the service of his company, for example, so that in the first year the company would be fully exempt from social security contributions, which would then be financed from the daily allowance, so that this would be completely cost-neutral for the central government, since the wage income tax could then cover these costs. At the same time, I would like to ask the Minister whether now we are going to have a long-term debate on industrial policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u171	Mr President! Minister Lintilä, on several occasions in the spring, when you were asked, you replied that all healthy businesses would be saved. And now I would like to repeat this question. We know what happened with the millions in Business Finland. In particular, this general subsidy failed because 73% of applications were rejected, i.e. they did not meet the criteria. Of course, there were some successes, but as you yourself said in the spring, things did not go exactly as planned. Now that, in this general context, there is certainly an undivided reserve — 500 million, apparently, this is the money that is next on the wallpaper — the same question now: we may have saved some of the companies with these spring measures, but what is the situation now in the autumn when this second wave comes? We know, for example, that the Minister for Finance
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u172	Mr President! It is very welcome that this government is finally raising the resources of employment services towards the Nordic level. With the reform of the employment services, the obligation to seek employment takes into account the ability of the unemployed to work and the workplace situation in the region, so no one is required to be unreasonable as during the active model. In the Nordic model, there will be a significant moderation of the fairs and a comment will be introduced before the fairs. Also, no one gets 3 months of carnival as they did during the active model. I would therefore like to thank the Government and Minister Hatais for the fact that, at last, the talk of Active Model 2 can finally be buried.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u173	Mr President! I will come back to my previous question when I did not yet receive an answer as to what these tripartite employment groups in the government belong to. I believe that this is a serious question in the sense that a year ago, when this same issue was dealt with here, it was promised that 30 000 jobs would then be created in the next budget. Well, now we know that the 30,000 have included both the jobs that have been created before these working groups have started their activities and those that are still in progress, and this time shark has also been moved. We understand that the interest rate has come, but that interest rate is not the reason for doing less, but should be done more to combat this long-term unemployment. I would like to point out that these lay-offs and unemployment security changes could be negotiated quickly, but is someone now holding back this local agreement, for example, and is it being discussed in a working group?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u174	Mr President! The real export power of Finns is certainly the product of the forest industry in its various forms. We all know that about 20% of Finland's exports are currently coming from the forest or its products, and the prospects for the future are very encouraging: long-fibre Finnish coniferous pulp, for example, is in the packaging industry, let's say a fluting board, or new products coming from it, which are currently being developed at an enormous rate. The same applies to the Finnish invention of dissolving pulp, which can be made into viscose, clothing, so cotton will soon be excluded and fields will be released into other productions. Now that we have this State Development Company Vake, which is also mentioned as becoming one, do you have significant plans to make this real Finnish resource even more efficient? I am extremely concerned that next winter millions of good, valuable breeding trees will return to the sky as a gas after this turf adventure, i.e. whether this is the case
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u175	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! It is envisaged that emissions from transport will be reduced by around 50% over a period of 10 years, and that is quite a large amount. Now, however, the corona time has come, and quite a few people have a lot of money, and it may be that those newer cars are not quite capable of getting into every economy. Has it been considered, however, whether there is room for some compromise on this objective?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u176	Mr President! I will return to what I have just said when it was unclear to Minister Lintilä exactly what I was asking. So it was the event sector and the travel agency sector, which are both those which, in practice, have not been supported, with the exception of a few operators, so are they going to receive aid? But, Mr President, my real question would be for Minister Haatainen: you have said in several interviews that in this new active model, an unemployed person must apply for one job a week. Did I really understand that, now that 1200 additional people are employed in TE Centres, the unemployed person must still apply for only one job a week?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u177	Mr President! Certainly in such models, which set minimums, it is all about the fact that everyone can they cross, and most of the unemployed people even at the moment are looking for much more work than one week. A lot of people are looking for hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and they may not find them. But, in fact, why I asked to speak is linked to the fact that an exceptionally large proportion of the unemployed in Finland have doubts about getting a job because they feel that they have health problems — a new OECD study tells us about this — and it is almost half of our unemployed. It is therefore important for the government to take action, for example, in line with this Swedish model for the employment of part-time workers, but it is worth looking at this issue in greater detail and, for example, to prepare for the fact that, when we are reforming these structures now, when there is a municipal experiment, these obligations must be applied for, and the social security system is becoming operational in the region, that health services do not run away from this whole of employment services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u178	Mr President! Korona revealed how isolated and unsafe small entrepreneurs, and especially sole entrepreneurs, are. Almost two thirds of the first EUR 300 million pot was not distributed because the applicants did not meet the conditions set. A large number of companies were deprived of aid because the aid amount was below the threshold of EUR 2000. The definition of eligible costs also gave rise to a great deal of debate. Minister Lintilä, you said that the intention was to get new cost support for businesses in place as quickly as possible, so that companies could compensate for the reduction in business as a result of the restrictive measures. My question is: how do we ensure that small and single entrepreneurs are also better placed to benefit from aid? This is really a significant number of jobs created by people themselves and, above all, the lives and livelihoods of these entrepreneurs and their families.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u179	Mr President! You're a lot of security in the government. You can't be accused of having a corona. You cannot be blamed for that either, but if you do not take employment action at the level required by the economic collapse, you can be blamed for it. When you leave the employment targets to the end of the decade and leave important decisions to the social partners to fight, you will not take responsibility for the house that returns now. If you let the welfare state burn to the ground, you'll leave it to the grubbing-up machine. The poor have hard times ahead of them. Why are you leading the country with a programme that has become obsolete and not even willing to control non-essential expenditure increases?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u180	Mr President! On this point in the debate, I would like to raise two points. As far as this local agreement is concerned, when it is often called for by the opposition, I would like to say that the government will look into adding it, but it is good to remember that, in the light of research literature, there is also information that this local agreement cannot be shown to have a direct impact on employment. And second of all, it is good to remember that local reconciliation in organised workplaces has so far been entirely possible if the employer has a genuine will to settle, that is to say, no new hocuspocus thing about this local arrangement is certainly not in the workplace. Then I would also like to focus on this Nordic model of employment services in the government. It is certainly not an active model for the last season, because now, by the Marin government, face-to-face service is being increased, nobody is expected to do anything like that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u181	Mr President! We need those private sector jobs which, for example, allow us to finance these new employees' resources from the TE Offices, but we really need those additional resources from the TE Office. I was quite shocked when a young person under the age of 30 had to apply for unemployment benefit for the first time in his life, that process is quite shocking. A guy who's perfectly standard functional is about willing to put his gloves on the table after the first 15 minutes. The process is difficult, and even after two weeks of this, there has been no single personal contact from the Employment Office. It has been stated, however, that the newsletter should be ordered and the employee's rights should be read independently on the Internet. I was wondering how many young unemployed people we have.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u182	Mr President! One of the major sufferers of the crisis is shipping, as many shipowners have suffered passenger restrictions as well as air transport. This can be seen, for example, in traffic between Finland and Sweden, where many ships have been removed from traffic, three of them under the Finnish flag. Other ships operate with smaller crews, as passenger numbers may be up to 90% lower than normal. This is why many crew members have been laid off. At the same time, shipowners are concerned about winter and how they will survive if the passenger numbers remain at the current level. However, the support provided through the IGC and Traficom to maintain security of supply is vital, thanks to the government, to the danger that they will not be sufficient. Wage support would be one way of facilitating the situation of shipowners. This is what the unions and shipping companies have proposed together. Is the government considering supporting shipping and crews with a pay subsidy?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u183	Mr President! I fully understand that we are experiencing an acute corona crisis, but in my own speech I would like to emphasise perhaps the post-corona period and the preparatory work, the reconstruction process. Many foreigners who have come after work here in Finland are unemployed today. They do not have anchored relationships with the cities they originally came to, and they are very mobile and ready to move within Finland for work. Minister of Labour Haatainen, what can you do for them? They're ready to activate. And another question relating to the work of Minister Lintilä. I would like to ask about the period after the interest rate: has it been considered that international contracts would be awarded, for example between Finland and Sweden, so that there would be cheaper and much more, so that both our countries would be built? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u184	And at this point, a few minutes of answers, ministers Haatainen and Lintila. — — — — Haatainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u185	Mr President! It was called for, asked what was going on with the local settlement. That work will continue in the working group, which is where the results are expected. The social partners are there, and I expect to have finished goods there. Mr Satonen also asked how these tripartite working groups were. They are working, I have halved the number of them, they have strained the work, and they are now preparing these solutions in the field of the administration of the Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs, and they are taking them forward. Good cooperation has been achieved, as Mr Satonen mentioned, with these two packages, and now the follow-up work is mainly concerned with this local agreement and then with the achievement of the employment targets for older people. Aittakumpu then brought up this apprenticeship for young people. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, but the government has decided that the compensation of the employer will be affected by the fact that the young person is under 30 years of age or is under 30 years of age and without a degree. These further orientations will be made when the separate working group work will be completed by the end of this year. Mr Grahn-Laasonen raised the issue of unemployment among young people, and many others raised it here. After all, this youth guarantee was decided and came into force during the other government, and the actions of the previous government were the only ones left in the midst of all those cuts. So the cockpits have survived, and they are now being permanentized. And the mental health services provided through the Ohjaamos are now being provided throughout the country, for these 70 localities [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u186	Then Minister Lintilä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u187	Mr President! There were quite a few of the same questions here, that is to say, Mr Heinonen asked about compensation or support in the field of events: it is considered that some would be eligible for new cost support. After all, the Ministry of Education has replaced the section, but it is quite clear that not everyone will receive support from it. Mr Asell asked about the criteria for cost support. We are currently assessing how the criteria will be changed. It is now becoming clear that it will change so much that we will have to register it in the law, that is, it will go to the statement and then to the Parliament, so that it will not go forward with simple changes in regulations. Congressman Myllykoski asked about hiring the first outsider. It has always been on the agency, but now I have to say that more is going to be done to ensure that the current ones are protected. Unfortunately, this is the situation. The industrial policy agenda is coming, as I said. It will be ready for the line in April, and it is being prepared as we speak. Congressman Koskela gave her critical regards. Of course, it started with the fact that I said that there was an attempt to save healthy businesses — and that is what we are still trying to do. But it is difficult for many nostrils to keep above water. The alleged failure of the cost subsidy: the most common reason was that the amount of the subsidy would not have increased to EUR 2000. And now I'm sure we'll weigh that lower limit. And contrary to what you mentioned, the subsidies from Business Finland were relatively good, however. Representative Elola now lost out on the sole entrepreneur’s support and cost support. On the contrary, aid for sole entrepreneurs was paid up to EUR 2000. The cost subsidy had to be at least EUR 2000 to get it. The cost support will continue, and the support of sole entrepreneurs I promise to look at and consider whether it should be extended.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u188	Mr President! Much has been said about these employment measures, and it is now important that companies are rescued in the midst of this crisis and that people now laid off find jobs. This is where the government has done an excellent job, and thank you for that. Minister Lintilä: Much has been said here specifically about restaurant and tourism and this cost support. I myself am the leader of the parliamentary music network, and I would like to see this particular area of music and event taken more into account in this report on the expansion of cost support. These future actions will focus particularly on the music industry in a number of ways, and this whole ecosystem in the music sector will employ a huge number of people. They are currently excluded from this cost support. In addition to this, we need a long-term plan on how to reform this social security system and develop this growth potential in the whole creative sector. And if this becomes a permanent change after the corona crisis, how do we adapt to this? Are you ready to take this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u189	Mr President! Minister Haatainen referred to the employment programme for older workers, which the government has, excellently, existed. I would like to ask whether the government is planning specific programme work in such a way that people over the age of 65, i.e. people who have already retired, can also make a better contribution to working life. After all, we already have about 100,000 over 65-year-olds who are involved in paid employment. In many countries where there is a great deal of an ageing population — all you have to do is refer to Japan and many other countries — there are genuine programmes that people who are already, in a sense, in retirement age can also contribute to society. After all, we have this genuine problem of retirement and retirement. This is where the people who are going to be there could make a real contribution. Of course, retirement must also be made possible for those who want it, at a sufficiently early stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u190	Mr President! I think that the budget is a good whole, both from the point of view of employment — new tools — and also from the point of view of business and business support policy. I am particularly pleased that transport aid for the regions of Eastern and Northern Finland has now been approved for the entire term of government, 6 million, which is also here in the budget. It is an important support for companies in eastern and northern Finland from the perspective of competitiveness. Another positive thing has been that, at the time of this government, the Ely Centres have had reasonable resources to support companies. And as a new tool now, at least in Kuopio, Mikkeli and Joensuu, the capital funds and start-up funds have also been included, to which the ely centres have joined. These will build this growth and internationalisation, especially for start-ups and young seed-stage companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u191	Mr President! When someone was just asking how those people in the nursing profession can wear this mask, yes, it is hot, I can tell you — 24 years of work there — is young or a little older. The interest supplement would therefore be in order. That would be a good employment measure. Unfortunately, Minister Vanhanen has already left. Mr Lintilä, you have really been a very good business and entrepreneur, and for that I thank you. You've been very vigorous. But I would also like you to make sure that, now that tourism, for example, is opened up, this bubble of tourism does not fade into a bubble of soap, that information and guidance and advice are valid and that people are still careful about this corona virus. It's all a and o. Mr Haatainen, I would like to ask you about the situation of young people. This summer when many youths missed out on summer work, how would you prepare for a different situation next summer? I have set such a model that households can hire young people because they also have the capital to do it. What do you say to this? Is there a government bill for the summer?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u192	Mr President! Now that the left side of the hall is excited to praise the active model two, I will bring up a few things about that too. [of the Socialist Group : false name! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u193	Mr President! New technologies were ignored here earlier. One interesting area is artificial intelligence. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has an AI programme and the Ministry of Finance has AuroraAI, which in fact seems very promising. Another time closely related is block chain technologies, which is therefore a significant innovation in financial technology and which can possibly be used in supply chain management or social solutions. Last week, the European Central Bank and, in fact, the Bank of Finland just announced how the ECB would make a digital euro. It must be using a similar technology, so it would be assumed: distributed technology. The EU is dealing with these issues. When you go to the OECD, there are big conferences in the field. But then, here in Finland, this whole word seems to be excellent with its absence. Just like in this AuroraAI or artificial intelligence program, could you take this particular technology industry and make it
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u194	Mr President! Statistics are quite complete here that during the last term of government, the number of young people not in education and working life turned down and is now increasing again, and I hope that the Minister will take responsibility for this. However, my real question now concerns equality in working life. Women's employment, working careers, wages and pensions continue to lag far away from men's wages, pensions, careers in Finland. And this reform of family leave, the ambitious reform of family leave, which the government is apparently currently in the midst of in some working groups, does not seem to be progressing very well, and the model that is being pursued is even weakening employment in general, and I hope that ministers will take a position on whether or not it is the right direction for a reform of family leave, which will weaken total employment in Finland. The second question in this respect is that according to statistics, housework continues to accumulate strongly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u195	Mr President! I would like to ask about the employment of people over 55. After all, it is still the case that the last employer often continues to pay the cost if the person falls on disability pension. After all, this was changed quite a few years ago, but it is still a big cost to the last person who has employed this person. The second question is whether the government could contribute to the side costs of the 55-year-old labour force in such a way as to make it more attractive to hire such a person. And thirdly: During the last term of the government, it was made possible for a person to study for 6 months with unemployment benefit, but not to receive the degree from this degree. Could this be extended to two years and a degree also be possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u196	Mr President! Over the last few years, working life has changed really big, and it will change at an ever-increasing pace because of the interest rate, and it is quite clear that the labour market must also change with it. Local agreement needs to be increased, but when flexibility is increased, security must also be increased at the same time. This is in the best interests of companies and, at the same time, of workers. Finally, working life and decision-making must also change in such a way that the voices of short- and shredded workers, self-employed, self-employed, self-employed, part-employed and elderly Finns are brought to the audience in working life. Working and family life must also be better coordinated. This framework, the decision-making process, must be brought into line with reality, and the reality must also be recognised.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u197	Mr President! Representative The column previously highlighted the importance of domestic ownership as one of the cornerstones of the welfare society, and I fully agree with the colleague, and I strongly encourage measures to strengthen domestic ownership. It is not just about the economy and entrepreneurship or jobs, it is also about security of supply, as we have all realised this year. Together with representative Nurminen, I share the concerns about the plight of the music industry, and I hope that the cost support to be reformed will also take better account of the players in the music industry and other creative operators. But my real question is still about the employment measures agreed by the government in the budget debate, particularly in the field of youth employment. Mr Haatainen has already mentioned in his presentation that a limited start-up experiment is also under way for under 30-year-olds. I would like to ask the Minister how progress is now being made in promoting and preparing this experiment. That is an excellent thing, and it is important that it be made available as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u198	Mr President! Although speeches on the right side of the Chamber often suggest otherwise, an ageing Finland urgently needs more immigration. The sustainability gap in the future is basically about the ageing of our population. The obvious solution to this is to speed up work-related immigration. The government has already added opportunities to this and will continue to do this good work. The government has agreed on a regional experiment to mitigate the needs of foreign workers next year. In addition, work-related migration processes will be speeded up so that a month's processing time can be reached as soon as possible. They are concrete measures to strengthen public finances and bridge the sustainability gap, and, most importantly, we are also investing in the integration of immigrants here. Mr Haatainen, I would like to hear more about the good work done by the government to increase work-related immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u199	Mr President! I will continue with the employment of young people, which has been particularly weakened by the interest rate. In Espoo alone, the number of unemployed persons under the age of 30 was nearly 5,000 in July, which is over 80 per cent more than last year at the same time. I was delighted to read the news that Espoo has now set a target of halving youth unemployment by the end of 22. This is to be done through multi-professional cooperation and is part of the local employment test. As Minister Hatainen said, the municipalities know their own territory and residents and are able to assess the service needs of the unemployed widely. I would like to ask the Minister: how do you assess the progress of the work in order to achieve a permanent model of municipal trials, with more responsibility for employment measures being transferred to municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u200	Mr President! Minister Lintilä has been praised here, and it is hoped that, after this speech, I will also praise her even more. This is a battery cluster that should be developed even more vigorously in Finland. We have heard about the capitalization of Suomen Malmitehlisuus Oy, and I would still like to see some flexibility in it. We know that an industrial plant is now being created in Harjavalta, Satakunta — the foundation stone has already been laid — for the manufacture of battery chemicals, and at the same time we would need this whole chain in Finland, so that we would also have the production of cells. So I ask the Minister: how have you outlined the objective of creating these new jobs so that we really are involved in this electrification?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u201	Mr President! This is where Mr Kauma has already begun, in other words, the debate in society is currently taking place on what should be done with the pension line, and I think that this debate has now become a bit of such a divisive one. In Finland, there are a huge number of unemployed people over the age of 55 who still have a strong desire and a fire to get to work. They would have at least 15 years of effective working time to give to the employer and certainly commitment. On the other hand, we have a lot of people at work who just can't handle it. The work can be physically or mentally burdensome, both in the worst case scenario. On the other hand, they would need flexibility at the end of working life. Unfortunately, it is often either a sick leave or a job alternation leave, and it would be better to use the rotation leave during peak years, for example when children are small. That is why I ask, Mr Haatainen: how do you intend to deal with this tricky issue for the unemployed over the age of 55, and also with those who are still working?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u202	I will give one last speech to this debate, and then the Ministers' replies. — Mrs Kiljunen Anneli.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u203	Mr President! Minister Lintilä, I know that you are familiar with the possibilities of synthetic fuel developed by LUT University. The very recent Carbon Neutral Finland report shows that factories would no longer be polluters, but emissions could be used to achieve carbon neutrality together with wind power. This means that we have the opportunity to produce all the carbon neutral fuel we use in transport using our own raw materials. It is estimated that this would bring tens of thousands of new jobs to our country. Industrial plants for synthetic fuels have not yet been implemented in Finland or the world. Now this facility is being prepared in Swano. Minister Lintilä, the EU's stimulus money would give carbon-neutral development a stepping stone right now. Will you support climate innovation and the potential of tens of thousands of jobs to start?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u204	Minister Lintilä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u205	Mr President! First of all, Representative Nurminen: Exactly agrees that the music industry, among other things, has had very little attention. The unfortunate thing is that I find it terribly difficult to find any sector that would not have needed support, and that is why I am more in favour of general support at the moment, because there is always the next sector that needs even more support. Representative Eskelinen: I have already considered it very important that we should be able to set up even small funds in the regions during the last period. They're enough to get those regional startups up. It doesn't have to be hundreds of millions, 10 million is already doing a good job in North Karelia, North Savo and so on. Representative Juvonen: I just want to remind you that at the moment, these infections are all about home wet, so we have to take care of the basics, and we are on a good path. Representative for the Park: Very interesting these block chains and related matter. I'm an artificial intelligence freak, and I'm actually the next person to turn to quantum technology. It is precisely Artificial Intelligence 4.0 that has been set up, which is mainly focused on industrial artificial intelligence, with which we are trying to help small and medium-sized enterprises, but this block is definitely one. Then to Mrs Myllykoski: The battery cluster strategy is on the move. We come to Harjavalta, we now come to Sotkamo for Terrafame chemical and cell factories. I can tell you that the negotiations are going on all the time. Finland is interested in the world, not least because we have sustainable raw materials. Congressman Kiljunen: I've really gotten to know this LUT. It does an extremely good and good job, and this synthetic fuel is definitely one of the best projects I have ever encountered.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u206	And then Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u207	Mr President! There were still questions about young people. It is important that the Chamber is interested in young people, and I think it is an essential question now following the corona. Juvonen asked me about the summer voucher. It's in preparation. A summer work voucher is being prepared for next summer, as it can be helped. Mr Grahn-Laasonen also raised the issue of young people. After all, unemployment among young people started to rise: as the curve rose in corona infections, unemployment among young people rose at the same rate. [SanniGrahn-Laasonen Intermission] Grahn-Laasonen also asked about these family leave. The reform of family leave now encourages fathers to keep more free and makes them more flexible. And from the point of view of families, of course, the big thing is to reduce early childhood education fees, which also contributes to employment. The elderly were asked many questions. The labour market table is now looking for a solution on how to strengthen the employment of older people. But then another point — to which Mr Kiljunen referred — was how older people who are already working can cope better. We are certainly looking for a solution to this, among other things, in the work well-being project under the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, in which the Ministry of Employment is closely involved. This is a subject that has been on the wallpaper for years and needs to be dealt with in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u208	Thank you to the ministers Lintilä and Haatainen for this section.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u209	Mr President! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for defending Finland’s interests in the world. At the same time, we are building a little better place in the world for all of us. Next year's budget will strengthen Finland's international impact and support the management of the corona epidemic and after-treatment. Like the current year, the draft budget focuses on improving the operating conditions of the Finnish delegation network, participating in international conflict prevention and mediation, and ensuring the level of development funding. The management and after-care of the Koronapandemia will further increase the need for international cooperation, which will require further action from Finland as well. Promoting human rights, the rule of law, democracy, peace, tolerance and equality in all international activities is central to Finland's foreign and security policy. The aim is to strengthen Finland's international position, secure independence and territorial integrity, improve the safety and well-being of Finland and Finns, and maintain the functioning of society. Regrettably, global interdependence is on a collision course with the great power tensions that are reflected in the entire operating environment. The most far-reaching issues, such as climate change, health safety and the preservation of the environment, require extensive international cooperation and rapid action. The Paris Climate Agreement and Agenda 2030, which defines the Sustainable Development Goals, provide the basis for cooperation in the coming years and for Finland's action. As a result of the pandemic, inequalities are at risk of increasing, and fragile countries are becoming more fragile. The global economic downturn triggered by the pandemic poses difficult challenges for achieving the SDGs and makes the operating environment more fragile. The pandemic also seems to intensify a number of developments that existed before the crisis, such as calling into question and increasing pressure on international human rights standards, democracy and the rule of law. Defending a rule-based international system is even more important for Finland at this moment than before. Therefore, in spring 2021, Finland will seek membership of the UN Human Rights Council for the period 2022 to 2024. The European Union will remain the main frame of reference for Finland's external relations and as a security community as the concept of security expands. The global influence of both Europe and the United States will change as the world becomes multipolar. At the same time, other countries, such as the wealthy China and Russia, are seeking a more significant position internationally. Africa's role as a strategic partner for the EU is growing. The Nordic countries are still the closest partners in Finland. Finland will chair the Nordic Foreign Ministers' Foreign and Security Policy Cooperation, the Nordic Council of Ministers and Nordic-Baltic Cooperation next year. Mr President! EUR 239 million is proposed for the actual operating expenditure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The increase in the current year's budget is EUR 1.3 million according to the Government Programme guidelines. The work of the delegations in the middle of the corona pandemic has been invaluable. It has been important both to monitor, anticipate and understand the rapid progress of the crisis and to help Finns around the world. In the midst of the crisis, we have taken good care of our citizens. Nordic and EU coordination, for example on return flights, is one example of successful cooperation in responding to the crisis. With the transition of the world and Finland to post-pandemic care, the importance of the network of representations for a small export-driven country cannot be forgotten. Our task is to promote Finland’s exports and internationalisation and to support Finnish business. The strengthening of the network of delegations under the Government Programme is now more topical than ever from the point of view of economic recovery. In accordance with the Government Programme, the establishment of new representations should be taken forward. The draft budget for 2021 includes the opening of one new delegation, the location of which will be decided at a later date. In accordance with the Government Programme, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to strengthen the processing of immigration issues next year, in particular in order to break down bottlenecks in work-related immigration. At the same time, the development of visa activities and immigration communications will continue. Changes in the international operating environment will increase the need for the security and security of the Finnish delegation network. In the framework of the draft budget, the development of secure communication by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also continue. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u210	Thank you, and then for his own responsibility, Minister Skinner, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u211	Mr President! Under the influence of interest, extreme poverty and hunger in the world have turned to growth and many developments are at risk. The situation is particularly worrying in sub-Saharan Africa, which is forecast to sink into recession this year for the first time in 25 years. The number of people living in extreme poverty will rise by as much as 70 to 100 million, half of whom are estimated by the IMF in Africa. We stand on the watershed and have the opportunity to do things in a new way after the crisis. We must drive the remaining silos down the road of trade and development synergies and involve the private sector in the work of sustainable development. The sustainability of development effects is often perceived through the so-called nexus approach, i.e. as a continuation of humanitarian aid, development cooperation and peace activities. This is a good starting point, but the risk is that three-part thinking will eventually be like a stool that looks solid in itself but on which you are afraid to lean with full weight. As sustainable development requires economic growth, trade should be seen as the fourth pillar of a nexus approach. It would create a sturdy chair under us. Mr President! Global challenges are enormous, but the corona virus also challenges Finland's own open economy seriously. Strengthening the operating conditions of Finnish actors in emerging markets contributes to providing solutions based on our excellence to the challenges of developing countries and at the same time opens new markets for Finnish companies. A stronger presence will also contribute to making European options and values the most desirable option in developing countries. Strengthening capacity, economy and trade in developing countries is a prerequisite for their sustainable growth. Mr President! A few comments on the budget. Finland’s public development cooperation is estimated to total EUR 1.2 billion next year. This is about 0.49% of gross national income. In addition to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the largest expenditure items are included in the budgets of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. An amount of EUR 711 million is proposed for the actual development cooperation managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This includes an increase of around EUR 25 million due to the acute global situation. In accordance with the Government Programme, we propose strengthening the funding of multilateral organisations and non-governmental organisations, humanitarian aid and Finnfund's activities. The interest crisis has shown that Finland’s development policy priorities broadly support the resilience of societies. Consistency, long-term sustainability and building on our strengths are essential to achieving the results. In this context, I would like to emphasise the strategic nature of the use of appropriations, their effectiveness and the introduction of changes in the level of the system. With next year's budget, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also continue to support Finnish exports and Finnish companies' business opportunities, economic growth and employment. We need to identify post-pandemic market openings, be in the front line and quickly launch stronger export promotion measures and develop new virtual tools to support export efforts. Because of the interest rate, the entire Team Finland network has been proactive towards companies, and this has also, of course, been accompanied by forms of corona financial support. In order to promote exports, the coverage of the network of representations is essential. We must now have the courage to open up new representations, while at the same time strengthening existing Team Finland resources, particularly in Europe, Asia and Africa. This also responds to the report of the Exit and Reconstruction Task Force, which clearly states that Finland will continue to be a part of its external economic relations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u212	Now we have a chance to debat here for a few hours. Please press the V button, you who want to take part in the debate. You have to push from where you're going.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u213	Mr President! Finland wants to be bigger than its size in the world. This entry in the Government Programme may have had a few sarcastic reactions at times, but it is quite right and important, because our well-being, our security, our future depends on how this international community stands together and how it can solve the challenges that can only be solved together. I am therefore very pleased that the budget has taken account not only of the significant increase in development cooperation but also of the expansion of the network of delegations — both of which were previously overshadowed and which caused a lot of damage that is now being corrected. When we have the ambit of being a small superpower of mediation or peace-keeping and we never have the great powers to do so, then it is all the more important that all these are used together simultaneously and efficiently, and I am a little concerned that one small piece of mediation seems to have fallen by one million in this budget. That's what I call it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u214	Mr President! The government budget lists the improvement of this network of representations and the opening of one new delegation. Now that we are looking at this whole package, we are thinking of this situation in the Afghan delegation. Minister Kaikkonen has mentioned that a NATO-led operation in Finland could possibly end for Finns as early as next spring. Of course, this was just news and there are many variables still on the way, but there are still very high embassy costs. And if we look at where this money would be needed specifically for the promotion of exports, for example, in India, which came up in our committee hearing. It has huge market potential, but we only have an embassy in Delhi. Denmark and Sweden, for example, have consulates in Mumbai, and many other countries are investing very heavily in it because it is a future market where many countries are already trading well. Mr Foreign Minister, how can we target these delegations?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u215	Mr President! We're celebrating International Girls' Day this week. The effects of climate change are indisputable and affect the lives of all of us but particularly badly the lives of girls in developing countries. Climate change increases school drop-out and child marriages, reduces girls’ nutrition, causes refugees and exposes girls to various forms of exploitation. Globally, improving the position of girls requires a great deal of work not only on climate mitigation but also on equality, and the interest rate has further increased the challenges. The increase in appropriations for development cooperation is absolutely important and worthy of support. However, we are not at the level of the 0.7% target that has been talked about there yet, and I ask: what is the plan to achieve this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u216	Mr President! A stable foreign policy, good relations with different directions, taking care of our own defence capabilities — based on our foreign and security policy. And it is a good thing that it is done in a good consensus, always in good cooperation across party boundaries, was in government or opposition. Crisis management is where Finland has been strong in the world and remains strong. We are involved in operations aimed at stabilising the situation, as in Afghanistan, for example. Now, according to the latest information, the United States is withdrawing from Afghanistan on a very fast schedule, by Christmas, and I would like to ask the Foreign Minister: How has this been done in Finland so that no irreparable damage is done here by the fact that this fight against terrorism is still ongoing and that these human rights issues, which are still not well in the country, will not be harmed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u217	Mr President! It is great that the budget proposal increases the level of development aid in accordance with the Government Programme. Although we do not yet reach the 0.7% target, the trend is still the right one. In addition to the level of funding, the key question is where and how to allocate Finland's development funds. Education is the cornerstone of sustainable development. Education is also a basic prerequisite for poverty reduction, job creation, economic growth, equality, stable democracies and also the fight against climate change. None of Finland's development policy priorities will be realised without education, which is why raising education to Finland's development policy was really important. What are the concrete measures that Finland intends to take to promote the education priority and make use of Finland's strong educational expertise to promote education in developing countries next year and in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u218	Mr President! Foreign Trade Minister Skinneri criticized the three-legged stool. I deeply resent this. Artek's three-legged stool 60, the so-called Aalto stool, from 1934 is one of the largest Finnish design classics — and export products. The Minister for Foreign Trade should specifically promote exports of such design products even further, not criticise them here. Mr President! More seriously: According to the Government Programme, Finland does not export defence material to countries that trample on human rights or war. However, Finland has taken Turkey — fortunately, after the attack on Syria, the then Prime Minister, Rinne, said that it will no longer do so. We've had spare parts taken to the UAE. On the other hand, if we look at arms purchases, they have been made, among other things, from Israel, which maintains illegal settlements and the blockade in Gaza. I would now like to hear the direction in which this entry in the Government Programme takes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u219	Mr President! Perhaps the most important and major item in this section is development cooperation, and in that respect we must strongly thank the government — a clear change of direction compared to the previous government, which in practice collapsed development cooperation. Now the course has been reversed. The budget for development cooperation, both quantitatively and in terms of national product shares, is rising by 0.6% to almost 0.5% at the moment. And what is essential, for the least developed countries too, is this increase from 0.16 to 0.18. After all, the international objective is 0.2 for these least developed countries and 0.7 for the whole of development cooperation. What is important is that humanitarian aid should also be given a fair and high-value or high-quality level of development cooperation, the activities of NGOs, be re-emphasised. I, too, would like to ask the same question as was already asked here: What do these international objectives, 0.7 and 0.2, look like? What is the crude plan that the government has in relation to these? In any case, congratulations on the increase in development cooperation appropriations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u220	Mr. Speaker! We understand the moral obligation to support developing countries, but it is high time to admit that development aid does not work properly, it does not produce the desired results. For example, there must have been more money pumped into that sub-Saharan Africa than in the post-war reconstruction of Europe. Similarly, development aid to Asia is less than that used in Africa, and yet Asia has risen from poverty. In other words, it cannot be said frankly that the amount of development aid is the decisive factor. As a small country, it is somewhat difficult for Finland to manage several projects and to target them effectively. That is why the Finns are investing in quality rather than quantity. I would like to ask the Minister whether the 0.7% target is an absolute value or whether it would be
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u221	Mr President! I would urge Mr Tavio to read the development policy performance report for 2018. There is quite a lot of concrete results that have been achieved over the years. [Ville Tavio’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u222	Mr President! The expertise of the previous speaker can be seen and heard. Among other things, the report makes it clear that the level of education of girls and women has increased with development aid, and much can be done with development aid. It does not exclude that it is not also possible to learn from mistakes and critically look at what can be done better. I would have asked the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development how we could attract even more shops to Finland, Finnish shops around the world, investments in our country and, on the other hand, attract experts to the service of the country. How can this be strengthened? We have a fairly comprehensive network of representations, and it will be further increased. The recent years have focused on the fact that new diplomats are better placed to export and to market products, but how can we improve this even further? Just as you said at the beginning, Finland is a small open economy, and trade is very important for this country and must be invested in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u223	Mr President! The Koronapandem has provided a kind of smoke screen for anti-women movements around the world. The sexual rights already acquired around the world are being attacked both openly and, as it were, in shadows, by various means. For example: at the UN General Assembly, these countries which oppose women's rights and sexual rights, the United States in the first place, are seeking to redefine even fundamental human rights. They say that the 1948 Declaration of Human Rights contains, as it were, too many human rights and they seek to undermine the position of women and gender and sexual minorities. Finland’s commitment to the Human Rights Council is a truly important effort and a fine demonstration that we are prepared to work for human rights even when — and perhaps especially when — it is difficult. In fact, I would like to ask both ministers: what can we do to ensure that this attack on sexual rights and an attempt is made?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u224	Mr President! At the moment, one war crisis, which is very topical and worrying, is between Armenia and Azerbaijan. There is a long historical burden in the background. There is Russia, but above all Turkey. Turkey has sought to expand its activities and influence: the attack on the Kurds in Syria, not only at war with the Kurds within its own country, but also at the war between Armenia and Azerbaijan, in which Turkey plays a major role on the side of Azerbaijan;
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u225	Mr. Speaker! In this respect, colleagues have said, with satisfaction, that this growing amount of development cooperation funds is increasing. In this context, I would like to ask about this ever-increasing EU development funding. Neighbourhood programmes in both northern Africa and then east and south-east of us will grow dramatically in the coming seven-year period, and Finnish exports have traditionally been rather weakly successful in these development-funded projects. What kind of ideas does the Minister have, how are we going to do better now that there is a large part of this funding targeted on sectors where Finland has good and high technological know-how and also this kind of project know-how? How would these development banks and other development funding help to get in? For example, within the framework of this European Development Fund, the Cotonou Agreement, but
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u226	Mr President! This world is now very complicated, and things are happening quickly. There are different tensions, there are foreign exchange wars, technological wars and so on. And all of this, of course, means that foreign policy actors must also be on the map of what is happening in technology and in the economy and so on, more and more closely. Do you have any ideas and what thoughts you have about how this will appear in the competence pool of the State Department? This question is perhaps partly related to what Mr Könttä also asked. Of course, wider and closer cooperation between different administrative sectors is important, but also within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of these individuals themselves must, of course, be able to absorb information.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u227	Mr President! In fact, I have a question for the Foreign Minister, thinking about the importance of a value-based foreign policy in our world and in our thinking, mind-blowing. It is only now that the growing centres of power in world politics, which take on an increasing, greater, growing role, have a value base further away from what we value. And our values are pretty light stuff from the direction of a lot of such power centres, looking east or looking west, unfortunately. We cannot give up a value-based foreign policy, but I would like to hear the Foreign Minister's view on how he emphasises a value-based foreign policy and a foreign policy that takes into account the interests and interests of these big players, which can then also be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u228	I will give the ministers, both of them, the two-minute answers, that much questions have come up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u229	Thank you. — Excellent questions. I am sure a colleague will answer those framework questions. Representative for the Judiciary: The funding of the so-called second basket, which the government still has to deal with, also includes these mediation appropriations as a whole, so that is not the situation you described, in terms of the whole, but the overall resources of mediation are growing. It is also important to note here that we have now opened up a mediation centre for the Foreign Affairs Office on 1 October, which means that there are also human resources in an entirely different way. And, of course, we are also very pleased that the USA and Russia have chosen Helsinki as the forum for this New Start agreement. Mr Niikko and Mr Savola, you raised your question about the future of this operation in Afghanistan. And I very much agree with Mr Savola that it should not be the case that the rapid withdrawal of soldiers would result in a situation in which those long-term achievements in Afghanistan would strike. There is a situation in which Finland is now involved in organising this Afghanistan relief meeting in November. I have just been in contact today with the Afghan negotiators who have been in Qatar and have followed these Doha negotiations. This is a very important political process and it would be very important for this military component to support what is now being achieved in these negotiations. So it is hoped that nothing like this sudden rapid withdrawal would happen. Congressman Arhinmäki, you said about arms exports. Perhaps this is just a quick answer to the fact that not everything can be seen in these decisions, because when the government's line has tightened, there will be entrepreneurs and companies who do not go for these permits or get an early warning that these permits will not be obtained in certain countries. This reality may appear to be somewhat different from these statistics. You also had an excellent question about the crisis in Armenia and Azerbaijan. I have just come here on a call with the Turkish Foreign Minister, Mr Çavuşo.lu, and I have spoken to the Armenian and Azerbaijani ministers this week. Finland is involved in this
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u230	Mr President! As regards the new embassies, Mr Niikko asked about the balance of the embassies' network in relation to trade, exports and everything else. Yes, it will be in balance. It will be in balance because Finland needs all these elements of political importance to us. How is the 0.7 target? It's the right direction. We are now working on a timetable, a scheduled road map, and, by way of example, I can say that an increase of around EUR 100 to 150 million per year is required in order to be at that level. With regard to the objective of 0.2, we are, in fact, quite close, with 0.18 coming in the near future. Mr Tavio, what is the point of development cooperation? Let me give you a few examples. Vietnam should serve as a good example in which it has been possible to develop society through development, to develop structures, to establish commercial relations. As another example, I will give you Mozambique. Eight Finnish energy technology companies — in fact from Vaasa, under Wärtsilä’s leadership — can electrify an entire country and at the same time do climate-positive work,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u233	Mr President! I have a question which, in my opinion, is rather strange in structure, but I ask the Minister for Development: We now have EUR 711 million in the actual development cooperation budget under that item. Last autumn, when we were discussing the budget, the Finns of Peru submitted a EUR 300 million reduction in the development budget. I appreciate in itself that there are clear and bold openings in the opposition's alternative budgets, but since then I have wondered: what would really happen to Finland's international reputation and its links with other countries if such a decision were passed here? And I am now sincerely asking for your assessment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u234	Thank you. — Mr Niikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u235	Mr President! Thank you, President, for giving me the answer. — I can now tell you, on behalf of the Finns, what the criticalness of the development cooperation of the Finns on which they are based is. Now that, for example, EUR 180 million has been allocated to the indicative programmes, each country and region, there is also sector budget support for Somalia, for example. Now we think that, for example, when Somalia receives money, it is committed to improving the position of girls and women, for example. For example, in 2014, a charter was signed by the Somali Government which committed itself to ending child marriages by 2020. However, in August the Somali Parliament will be discussing a bill allowing children to marry at the beginning of puberty, which may mean that when they reach the age of 10. This was discussed in the Somali Parliament in August. And there are currently child marriages in Somalia, for example, with 34% according to their official estimates.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u236	Mr President! This year the 70th anniversary of the UN is celebrated, and this year's theme is to promote dialogue and interaction. I think that this is remarkable and very valuable, that if the debate in some sections of the budget is quite contrasted, then this debate in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may not be so much so. And from the point of view of the Assembly, these efforts in the administrative sector are in the right direction and are also broadly in line with our objectives. There is now a greater need for strengthened rule-based and multilateral cooperation than perhaps for a long time. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister: How do you see Finland's role and potential in this challenging global situation? How is the UN's framework for action to be met?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u237	President! At some point, Finland and Europe will emerge from this crisis. We're getting greener and greener. We too need to respond to green economic growth in the front. We must now be sensitive to megatrends and signals where the right paths can be found for success in international trade. For example, I am raising the sectors of the circular economy. We have a circular economy business park in Pirkanmaa, with EUR 70 million invested in it. There are 28 companies operating there, and it is developing and expanding all the time. This is a concept and a platform for a circular economy that is a system for the world to be exported. It is easily extended to the Nordic countries, for example. Our knowledge of this circular economy and waste management should be harnessed in particular to third countries — as we monitor the situation in the sector from the news. When EU recovery funds or other export subsidies are allocated to different regions, the potential of circular economy concepts such as Eco3 is now taken into account. How could this sector be exported to the world more effectively? Could development aid be used for this development of waste management?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u238	Mr President! Yes, these arms export permits must be in line with those of other EU countries. I see that this cannot be more stringent than the other countries are. We are talking about security of supply, we are talking about our own jobs. At worst, we fly our expertise or our business beyond the borders of our country. And it is also a matter of trust — that if we have provided something, then we must also be able to supply spare parts in it afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u239	Mr President! Four questions. First Minister Skinner of 5G's foreign policy importance: does its development picture affect Finland's geopolitical relations, how is Nokia's competitiveness secured, and what attitude is taken towards China's efforts to influence information networks? And here's to Minister Haavisto: There was a story about Nagorno-Karabakh. Of course, the OSCE Minsk Group is trying to resolve it, but this group includes Turkey, for example, and that is why it is quite difficult. But is Finland doing something concrete on the UM side now? Do you see that in relations with Turkey? France has quite openly expressed its opinion on this. Has there been bilateral contact with Russia, for example? But it has the keys to the solution in its pocket. There are obviously four questions I do not have time for, but let us take one more — about civilian crisis management. Its focus is, among other things, in Georgia. What is the role of Finland in the region at the moment, whether it operates on the border with the Republic of Abkhazia or where, and how does Russia's aggression affect it today?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u240	Mr President! Finland will be setting up a new embassy next year, possibly in South-East Asia or Africa. Both areas are very interesting. For example, if we look at the EU programme in Africa, there will certainly be different opportunities for Finnish companies – Morocco, for example, is very exemplary and ambitious in introducing renewable energy alternatives. And, on the other hand, if you look at the India raised by Mr Niko, then there too, in the same way, there are opportunities for companies to build infrastructure and water infrastructure, to name a few. What are your criteria for opening this embassy? And, Mr President, there is another question: development cooperation is very important, it is not disputed, but it sometimes turns out that there are also abuses. Last year it became clear that there were irregularities in Zambia after 45 years of cooperation. Do we currently have other such countries under the loop where similar abuses are emerging?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u241	Mr President! Yes, the government’s goal is to be larger in size in the world. This requires not only adequate development resources but also means to support the private sector in addressing development challenges. Finland is committed to contributing to the UN’s sustainable development goals, including the ‘leavenoonebehind’, i.e. ‘no waste after’. Finland and other actors should be able to support small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular those committed to the sustainable development of Africa. However, these companies have high employment potential and thus the potential to address the root causes of refugees. There is a great deal of potential for fiscal investment. How would growing fiscal investment also be made to support sustainable development goals in the more fragile countries? How, for example, Finnfund or other actors could direct investments in support in particular
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u242	Mr President! The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Haavisto, rightly said here that securing an international rule-based system is extremely important for Finland. I'm sure it is. So is the progress of democracy and human rights. I would therefore like to ask the Foreign Minister's assessment of the situation in Belarus. Of course, Belarus is touching us quite strongly, because it is a shorter journey from Parliament House to Minsk than it is to Rovaniemi, and it is quite incomprehensible that there is a situation so close to us that we cannot trust the results of the elections, and those people who then demonstrate their minds and demand honest, new elections are arrested. This may also have become a bit of a symbol of whether democracy and human rights can move forward in this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u243	Mr President! In addition to the question of India and the New Delhi Embassy, Mr Niikko raised the possibility of a consulate in Mumbai here, quite rightly. Well, it's an interesting area, isn't it? There will also be many experts in Finland, for example from Bangladesh. I understand that applying for a visa is a major problem for both Pakistani and Bangladeshi citizens. Have we thought about how to help these experts get to Finland more easily when we go through the Embassy Network? For example, there has been an embassy in Bangladesh for a long time. The second, then further east, if we look at trade policy, is the issue of China. It uses softness to power around the world, but inside it's pretty raw power. There are Uighur prison camps, the Uighur situation is one of the worst human rights violations of our time. In what way do such issues arise with China in foreign policy, on the one hand,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u244	Mr President! Thank you for giving the floor. Firstly, for Mr Ovaska: I am surprised that human rights are not
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u248	Mr President! On 25 June 2016, it was announced that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has EUR 1.2 million in development cooperation funds that have been misused and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs received between 16 and 28 cases of misappropriation each year between 2015 and 2018. I would ask you, Minister: has this money been recovered? Finland has discontinued development cooperation with Zambia and the final instalment will be paid in 2023. I would like to ask why on earth is still being paid, because in Zambia these doubts were directed precisely at the social security programme supported by Finland and that money did not go there to the right targets. I also asked a written question about this a year ago. I'd like to ask Minister Skinner about education exports: Wouldn't it be wise to go there? How do you promote, for example, the possibility of teaching on the spot? And finally, to Minister Haavisto, I would like to thank you for acting in the corona crisis when you arranged for Finns to come home.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u249	Mr President! Internationality is a prerequisite for Finland at many different levels, both in terms of security and trade. Unfortunately, the interest crisis has accelerated problems in many parts of the world. It also spreads like a virus. Many children live in constant danger. The challenging time will highlight Finland's ability to develop its own international position in crisis management, for example. I am very grateful to the ministers that it is precisely the budget for crisis management that remains quite at the same old level. In crisis management tasks, Finland needs to focus more on quality than quantity and thus leadership. How do you, Minister of State, ensure that the Government has strong political support for Finnish crisis management professionals, and promote their ability to lead international operations?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u250	Mr. Speaker! Minister Haavisto mentioned the New Start negotiations in Helsinki, and that is the only bright spot in the world that is otherwise marked by the separation from arms control and disarmament agreements and the arms embargo that seems to have been reflected to some extent in Finland. In this situation, we do not know whether this Start agreement will produce results. But there is another point of light, and that is that the number of ratifications of the full nuclear non-proliferation treaty will increase so that it will come into force in the next few months. This is important. Although it does not yet remove any nuclear weapons, it increases the pressure on nuclear states and provides support for the implementation of the Non-Proliferation Treaty in this regard as well. I hope that the government, in line with the reference given by Parliament, will monitor this development and will be prepared to make a contribution from Finland, given that:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u251	Mr President! Foreign Minister Haavisto said that he had had a telephone conversation with the Turkish Foreign Minister today. Together with him, you will also lead a network of friendships between peace brokers within the framework of the UN. Did you possibly have a conversation about this network? Probably not. Perhaps ironically I have to say this, knowing the nature of Turkey's current policy. Instead, I would like to ask about this mediation centre, which has been set up in the Ministry. Congratulations on that. It was also good to hear that the funds specifically earmarked for mediation have increased. Could you tell us a little about the agenda of this centre, what kind of action you are going to take, and a little about the action programme that it is going to pursue?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u252	Mr President! Minister Skinner, you mentioned, as a good performance of development cooperation models, for example, Vietnam, which has gained its feet and obtained development cooperation, but, if I remember correctly, during the 2011 parliamentary term at least, there was a debate among the MPs that, if there were any, the money that was given there went into corruption. Checkpoints were made from this Parliament. I don't want to mention which MPs were out of town. I can tell you that after official inspections, they came to show them, to tell them what kind of villas they were living with the guys who led the project. Was this Vietnam funding stopped precisely because there were suspicions of corruption there? Do you know this? Was there any investigation going on at the State Department? And as far as Somalia is concerned,I did not receive a reply — when the budget book says ‘sector budget support to partner governments’ —to improve the rights of female women if money is given to the government. Is there any recorded statement on this that we will condition its support for these human rights?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u253	Mr. Speaker! Minister Skinner mentioned Mozambique and climate change in the same sentence in a positive tone. I would like to ask: how do you feel about Mozambique trying to be the largest coal-producing country in the world? In other words, Finland indirectly supports growing coal-fired power stations in Africa.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u254	Mr President! The representative of Estonia made a good speech in relation to Africa. Africa has been mentioned here in several speeches. The preparation of Finland’s national strategy for Africa has now been launched, and the objective of this strategy, namely to extend relations between Finland and Africa from development cooperation to political and economic cooperation, is easy to agree with and support. But I'd say, Is there something more specific about this expansion of relations already in place, because this is a very interesting subject? And what is the timetable for the Africa strategy? As I understand it, the strategy does not really come before Parliament. How will this Africa strategy in Finland be coordinated with the EU?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u255	Mr President! Finland is known worldwide as a model country for equality. And when we look at this civilian crisis management, that is what the UN's aim is for 15% of peacekeepers to be women. Unfortunately, our figure is currently 5%, and the government's objective is to increase it to 7%. So I ask Minister Haavisto: is this level of ambition high enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u256	Mr President! It is very motivating to have the floor at this stage on a list which has already had 20 speakers, at least, and the minister has one minute — two minutes — to reply to them. It is an absolutely intolerable situation in itself to have this debate, which is not real. But let me now say my own opinion or my question on this development cooperation. To the extent that it is possible to think that, when our strength is our education system, one particular country could well be named in Africa, in which Finland's education exports would be carried out in a way that goes from the very foundation to the university level, and it would be carried out in a way that, if successful, would also set an example for wider education exports at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u257	Thank you. — And now I give Mr Haavisto 4 minutes and Mr Skinner 3 minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u258	Mr President! From the previous round, Mr Kanerva, you had an excellent question, geopolitics versus value-basedness, and both are those elements. The reason why I also judge this value-based approach is that we get a larger number of allies behind these values if we talk about multilateralism, human rights issues and issues of democracy, allies who are not necessarily neighbours of some great power or those that are generally more affected by geopolitics, but this is an important point of view, without forgetting geopolitics. Mr Sirén, in an excellent way you have highlighted the multilateralism of this 70th anniversary of the UN and the rule-based nature of the UN. Finland has participated in the Alliance for Multilateralism project launched by Germany and France. There are about 70 countries, it is no longer a small group, and it also challenges the fact that there are countries that underestimate the importance of multilateralism. Of course, the worst kind of understatement is to break away from the UN organisations, as we saw with the WHO, the World Health Organisation, we have seen with the UNCHR, the Palestinian organisations or UNESCO. Now, with regard to the WHO, with regard to the World Health Organisation, Finland increased its own funding — a little as opposed to those countries that then tried to compensate for this loss. The UN's operating conditions, of course, must be safeguarded from the Finnish perspective. Mr Junnila and Mrs Kausto, you well described the importance and importance of both crisis management and civilian crisis management. First of all, to Mr Junnila on the role we have played in civilian crisis management and where we have succeeded: I often take the work of Ukraine and Eastern Ukraine as an example. Our men and women in the OSCE, for example, have reached the East Ukrainian sectors and across borders and have done a huge job in the middle of the crisis — and here I add the Estonians’ idea that both women and men are needed in these. Finland may have about 40% of women on the civilian crisis management side, but you are right, there is less in the military crisis management sector, and here we still have work to do. Mr Satonen raised a topical political issue, the issue of Belarus: what is the Finnish line, what can be done? Of course, we had first signaled when we saw what was coming out of the elections and, of course, we had already called for national observers who were not there. Then there was this failed election countdown, the protests on the streets. Of course, we appealed among the other EU countries, and I also used my own foreign minister relationship with Foreign Minister Maki, that we should now take the voice of the opposition seriously and start negotiations there. Well, this has not happened: we have seen police violence, people have had to leave the country, and now the most recent diplomats, the Lithuanian and Polish diplomats had to leave the country. This development is not good, and we have tried, among other things, with Sweden to see if the OSCE mechanisms could be used in this regard. Sweden is becoming the OSCE Presidency. But, as you well said, this is close to us, it concerns us and affects the Europe we are currently living in. Representative Judgments, you spoke of this New Start initiative, and I myself regard it as a bright spot. It is very interesting where this nuclear non-proliferation treaty leads, and I see, in the same way as you, that it can also lead to increased pressure from nuclear powers in this regard. A very important point of view, and the government will continue to have an ongoing debate on these issues. The representative of Kauma was concerned with these new delegations and with these criteria for opening up new embassies. It combines many commercial interests, Finland's representation, possibly Finnish communities operating in these countries, Finnish companies operating, but also our political interests. This also has little to do with Mr Pelkonen's strategy for Africa, that we want more political relations, dialogue, genuine dialogue with African countries too, for example, West Africa is an area in which we are not properly represented. I believe that the Africa strategy creates the philosophy that we do not look from the top down, not just from the donor-beneficiary point of view, but from an equal point of view in terms of trade, development, common climate issues and so on, Africa today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u259	And Minister Skinner, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u260	Mr President! Representatives Koskinen and Lindén asked how Finland would be better involved in development banks and development funds, how Finland would be better glued to public procurement, what if we were not involved in multilateral activities, to which Mr Lindén apparently referred. Of course, Finland is involved in many ways, but we must be honest that we are a small country and our business structure and that our business shoulders are relatively narrow, as the events in Finland show. It needs to be diversified, and that is the work we are doing, but, as I said, we have a lot of opportunities, and we have also invested more in it. Then to Mr Junnila: Digitalisation, technological transformation, 5G — an excellent question. The world's playing field is not even, and of course we are working for it in trade policy in the European Union as Finland, to ensure that it is as smooth as possible. And it is good to note that Nokia is a highly competent and competitive player, and now that the world market is being redistributed, it is important that Nokia succeeds, because Finland will also succeed. Representative for Kauma: Actually the same question about the world market, its distribution. It's happening now. There was a time before and after the corona, and we need to ask ourselves which side we want to be on, what kind of world we want to build. And Mr. Tavio, you spoke of coal, Mozambique. In fact, it is the Finnish Wärtsilä that makes the decision: to replace coal with gas. This is a climate action, this is Finnish competence. The 200 million investment in R & D in Vaasa is an excellent example of this. Finland is the best in the world here, so let us support that work together. Unfortunately, I do not know all the things about Vietnam's history in relation to this project, but it is quite clear that when it comes to abuse, the State Department will react immediately. Everything will be clarified, and we will take all of these very seriously. As far as Zambia is concerned, I know that this project has been frozen immediately. Of course, not all of the events of the previous government or from 2011 to 2015 can be opened up to you here, but I am sure that we will work this out and we will come back to that. Sexual, reproductive health, related rights, Finland's focus, the role of women and girls, including the inclusion of people with disabilities — in this, of course, SRHR activity supports balanced population growth overall. What is important, and in that too, Finnish expertise, maternity and child health care activities, everything we do with the UN, is very important. Representative to Asell about the circular economy, the Nokia model: Thanks to Nokia, we need such departures, but that's our problem that when the dimensions and size are quite small, it's a journey to the Wärtsilä world. But this is the work we in the government, together with Minister Lintilä, are doing, that you
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u261	Mr President! I did not yet get a clear answer about the extension of the delegation network. Well, that could go right down there. However, the question would be that, for example, when Denmark and Sweden are very successful there, for example through consulates in Mumbai, would we be able to spend that money, for example, on the establishment of permanent offices in other regions of India? This would be such a strategic choice in a way. Where would you find the money? Could money be found, for example, at the Afghan embassy? It would be good if it were to be assessed once and for all how important it is to the Afghan delegation, because it costs several million dollars, just to secure it, every year, and in itself it could be managed a little further away. But as far as this development aid is concerned, there were no answers to that either, but many of you who have not been here before do not know that, during the 2011 parliamentary term, governments, for example, were caught in Afghanistan when they stole $900 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u262	Congressman Kanerva. — Did Mr Kanerva speak?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u266	Mr President! India is a democracy, but at the moment it is very much on its way to the system of the model of Erdo. The Minister did not comment on this peace mediation cooperation in Turkey. I understand that it is awkward, and we do not need to make a big deal out of it, but it would probably calm us down if we knew that this was going to be buried quietly because, when we started it, Turkey had no problems in any direction, but now there are wars in every direction. This makes it a country of mediation; it is by no means typified by mediation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u267	Madam President! I will return to these development funds. I was looking at the financial statements for 2019 from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was reported that 17 misdemeanors were recorded there then and a little less than EUR 80000 would then still be recovered. I would like to ask you about this and I hope that we will receive further information on this. I have a written question coming from myself on the subject. 2019 we also paid money for development cooperation in Nigeria, and then, in Nigeria — when the word education was mentioned here — very bad abuses were discovered in the same year. These students and students had even been tortured there. I would like to ask: how do we see that this money is certainly targeted at the right targets? Madam President! Finally, I would like to ask you about this Agenda for 2030, in which we are all very deeply and strongly involved. What are the most visible achievements we have achieved there in the world, and what about Finland? How do you see how, for example, this programme will be introduced in other parts of Europe? For example, poverty eradication is one of our themes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u268	Madam President! I liked the presentation by Mrs Kanerva that there would be a country where the education system could be built from start to finish. But we would have this type of competence to take a target country at a time, for example, in forest expertise, in combating climate change through this, in our own food production in these countries. We have a great deal of expertise in these different areas, and that is why this should be strengthened more. In fact, I would ask the ministers: now that we have this network of embassies strengthened and each of these embassies has our business card in the world, so how do we ensure that there is sufficient marketing expertise there, that there is always a Finnish flag at the centre, that Finnish brands are always strongly promoted, that Finnish products are marketed, Finnish expertise, that solutions are sought together with the locals, so that the maximum benefit can be gained from all the expertise that has been baked here in Finland, and that it can then be exported, that the euro has also been imported to us in Finland through this, that extensive knowledge for wider use?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u269	Madam President! I am happy to support Mrs Kanerva's view that Finland could have stronger cooperation with India. In addition to delegations, it could be research cooperation or even a stronger presence of NGOs there. But I wanted to talk a little about climate change, the global challenge, the critical consequences of which are already evident as natural disasters in many parts of the world. The climate crisis and the loss of biodiversity, the accelerating disappearance, are also a major threat to the realisation of human rights. We have promised to make a human rights-based foreign policy. I'd like to ask you a question. How is this human rights perspective and climate work more visible now in this regime? And we are active in international environmental and climate policy and we are looking for similar partners so that we can raise the international level of ambition in the fight against climate change?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u270	Madam President! Thank you, ministers, for your answers. I will continue with that civilian crisis management some other time, as I will ask Minister Haavisto about relations with the United States. I have received the message that some neutrality in external relations is sometimes lacking, and that is how it sometimes seems to you. However, it may jeopardise many diplomatic and commercial relations if, on the other side of the pond, they are perceived to be even partially coloured. Of course, Washington D.C. is in a special position and exerts pressure, but America is a well polarized country with large state differences. Is it understood that Finland may not be in favour of leaning too much on the side of another power party, but of promoting relations more widely, especially outside the capital? I believe that we would be able to make much more use of trade relations, which, as is well known, are also influenced by geopolitical factors. Has there been a broader discussion? If not, I will suggest that it be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u271	Mr President! There are so many questions coming out of the hall that the ministers are running out of time to answer. But I would continue with this representation through development banks, the strategy in it. Now that this level of development funding in Finland is rising quite rapidly, we would have the opportunity to consider acquiring a foothold in these development banks' funds, either regional, country or thematic, through which we can get to really large flows of development spending, into decision-making, so that it would be better known, and then there would also be many more opportunities to improve Finland's exports and development partnerships. The Africa strategy that has been presented here must include this kind of thinking. But, across the board, it would be particularly important to get involved in the cash flows of the EU's neighbourhood programmes. If we are involved in a way that also supports Finnish employment, so is this wider acceptance of development cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u272	And for both ministers, three minutes. — — — — Minister Haavisto will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you again for the good questions. In the earlier round, Mr Kiljunen asked about this mediation centre how it worked. Its idea now is to bring together these Finnish organisations and organisations, and also such peace brokers, which we have very competent ones, and to make them network with each other so that there will be no overlaps and other things, and then actively work with these other countries and governments, but also with international organisations on mediation issues. It has already shown its claws, and it is very good that this kind of strength is in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we can also market our mediation expertise more centrally and organizedly in UN contexts, EU contexts and elsewhere. Formerly, Mr Tavio had a question here about population growth and development. My own response to this has always been that this training of girls, the education of women, the status of girls, the status of women, is the best remedy in terms of changing societies and, for example, situations where a large family size has been a guarantee of social security, whether in old age or otherwise. When people are brought into education and organised social security, it is the best remedy for this issue. As far as the network of representatives was concerned, Mr Niikko asked whether it would be possible to leave Afghanistan when security costs were so high. Of course, if there were to be a more sustainable peace situation in Afghanistan now in the Qatar peace process, then security costs could be lower then, that is to say, there would be peace in the country. And perhaps I would appeal to the point of view that it is not worth leaving quickly for projects which have been heavily invested in and which have had a long commitment, but that those fruits of development then somehow remain in that country and can be supported. I'd be pretty careful about this, at least not to make any quick calls. Representative Judgments and Former Representative Mr Kiljunen asked whether the peace mediation cooperation with Turkey was still going on, and that is precisely what you describe as: Turkey is now, as is the case with conflicts on various sides, whether it is the eastern Mediterranean or the Nagorno-Karabakh in a certain sense or otherwise. In other words, the communication itself will continue, but now there are a few other reasons: let us try to influence Turkey too to give up military action or to support it in some cases and then come to the negotiating table. Communication is important in itself, but Turkey's action is not acceptable on all these occasions. Mr Juvonen asked a good question about the Agenda 2030 action programme, about the eradication of poverty and its very broad spectrum, and we do have such a manual in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for all activities. There are many sectors and these issues of peace and development are also part of it. I think that applies to both domestic and foreign countries. Mr Junnila still had a question about relations with the United States. I have not noticed, nor have I heard, that we have a bad or worse relationship with the United States in some way. I am just referring to the active interaction of Heads of State and now to this meeting in Helsinki, where both Russia and the United States felt that Helsinki was a suitable place for the New Start negotiations, so that this was probably not a problem. What you referred to then in relation to this regional coverage in the United States was a very important point of view, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u274	Secretary Skinner, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u275	Mr President! It is clear that the question that Mrs Kanerva had — whether we could make the education system as a whole — is quite right. That is the right question at strategic level. I was talking about energy, I was talking about mobilization or digitalisation, and that is why I have set up at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs six thematic ambassadors' modules, which include education, trade and development, energy and circular economy and digitalisation, and also health and well-being, to which Päivi Sillanaukee was actually transferred from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. I am very pleased that this cross-administrativeism is now developing in us too, this is the genuine dismantling of silos. And that is the ownership we can apply for at country level in commitment, and in Ethiopia and Mozambique, among other things, we see precisely this development. Congressman Juvonen asked about malpractice. It is quite clear that human rights are always examined before funding decisions and proposals are made. And I would be happy to come to your parliamentary group to open these details on a country-by-country basis and on a case-by-case basis, because this 3 minutes is unfortunately not enough. Representative Savola referred to these system-level solutions, the future of Finnish industry and business in general, the forest industry. Yes, I see the same way, but here too we must learn to make them scalable business models, that we can truly be involved in those larger projects. Often that smallness is our challenge. And that is also what Junnila referred to earlier: Great Power Policy, the role of China, the role of the United States, the strategy for Africa. The relationship between the Finnish strategy for Africa and the EU Commission's strategy for Africa was asked. We have a very close relationship when we prepare, we do this work. I would like to raise the issue of young people, future generations, next generation. This is quite one of the work of Commissioner Urpilainen: how young people find jobs, how we train people in these countries and how we approach this at country level. And by the end of the year, when we in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are able to complete the country programmes, we would be happy to go through this debate openly with you in a good dialogue. Then there was the question of Agenda 2030, where we have succeeded. Yes, we moved on very much before the corona, but now we have to be honest: at worst we will be back for 25 to 30 years. It is a major emergency, which is why Finland has responded with humanitarian aid. We have done what we have been able to do together with the Nordic countries as a joint European Team Europe team. We have done everything we can to address that problem, and it is not just a corona in Africa, but the socio-economic problems that are already in hand, even if the corona itself is not necessarily the worst problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u276	Madam President! Mr Skinner, you raised Mozambique here as a country example of successful development cooperation. As your Minister for Development, I am sure you should know that Mozambique does not exactly have this. My own common-law partner is from Mozambique, and every day we discuss the situation in that country as one of the poorest countries in the world. I asked him if he could go pick up a congressman one day and improve the state of the country. He said that ‘in any name’ because he did not want to be killed. Every day there are absolutely shocking examples of the condition of the country, even if some electricity networks and others are built there. People are dying just because piles of garbage in the cities are flying on top of them. There in the north, Islamists kill ordinary people. If we do not make the earth itself rise so that it itself develops itself, then certain segments, certain things that we are about to accomplish, will also be broken in the future. That is why development must be long-term
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u277	Mr President! Mr Tynkkynen described Mozambique, I could describe a large number of developing countries with similar problems. This observation is in itself correct. At this earlier stage, Mr Kanerva made a proposal to which the Minister replied that, in a programme-type way, we would concentrate, for example, cooperation in education and training in a particular country — Africa, you said. I also have an idea or a concrete proposal for you when the Minister replied that this would be possible. Is not the country that might best fit it — when it has to be a relatively small country, so that it also has a showiness, and Finland’s resources are also small — naturally Namibia? Why Namibia? Since we have been the first to export training to that country, and Namibia is by the way the only country in the world on which an official proposal has been made at the State Department, in 1922 that it will become our colony. By the way, it is the only country that has been seriously discussed at this level in Finland that it could actually be a colonial country for Finland. And we have had a special relationship with Namibia for a very long time, which can be seen in many ways. There Finland is a specific case, when you go to Windhoek, you go to Namibia — missionary work
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u278	Madam President! There has been much talk of development cooperation here today, and I believe that open civil dialogue and open democracy are part of the fact that we can also critically look at development cooperation. In part, we have development cooperation through such project funding, where project funding is divided into sections and is gradually examined and the funding for the next phase depends on its first stage principles being implemented. I believe that this principle can be extended and used in the lessons learned from it. But I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about this arms exports, which we have heard a lot of talk about here today: could it be considered that Finland should move towards such a genuine common EU arms export line? We have an arms export department in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs very well, we have had a good arms export line for years, but these dual-use goods are a challenge even among the countries of the European Union, and countries that follow the same principles themselves do not follow the same principles. I believe that this would be in the interests of the Finnish arms industry if France and Sweden were to practice the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u279	Mr President! I would like to return to this earlier speech by Minister Haavisto on value-based foreign policy — a rather fundamental aspect of it. And in the Government Programme, the government is very strongly emphasising value-based foreign policy. On the other hand, there is such a school of political realism, where interests are explicitly emphasised as part of foreign policy. Minister Haavisto, I believe you have said in the past that these two can at least go hand in hand so that there is no conflict between them, but if you think that this international multilateral system of agreements is swinging and on the other hand this kind of power policy is becoming increasingly in the picture, would you see that there is a risk that the balance will go more to that side of realism, and if ambition in this sort of value-based foreign policy is being raised too high, then it will have to be withdrawn? I would see, for example, that previous defence policy solutions in Sweden were an example of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u280	Mr President! A high-quality, value-based and human rights-based foreign policy has been discussed here. I personally believe that it means defending and promoting those values and human rights, even when it is a little difficult, uncomfortable or perhaps even economically unfavourable in the short term. That means it's not all for sale. The tragic situation of the Uigurs is an example of a situation in which the international community should be better able to deal with the flagrant violations of human rights, even if it is faced with an important trading partner from China. On the other hand, arms exports are another example of the way in which values and principles, human rights-based principles, set the frame. And yes, I think that we have to set those principles and principles ourselves instead of making fools of others. It is great to hear that arms export issues go through a rigorous human rights review in Finland, and all support that this will continue to be the case. And, of course, if such a line could be extended to the whole of the EU — this human rights-based approach and intransigence in it —
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u281	Madam President! As Mr Hyrkko has just pointed out, I would also like to hear about this Uighur situation earlier on how it will be raised in foreign policy and trade policy with China. Of course, Hong Kong is another question. We've been talking about colonials. If we look at Africa, there is yet another colony, Western Sahara, which has been illegally occupied by Morocco since 1975. The UN has condemned that occupation. At the same time, however, the EU has also had fisheries agreements with Morocco in Western Sahara waters. I would like to ask: in what way in the EU and more widely, will Finland contribute to this issue of Western Sahara and to the right of the people there? Then I must say that I am surprised when the Finns of Peru criticize development aid for every possible angle, saying that it must be long-term, and at the same time they want to cut it. On the other hand, you constantly say that we must help people where the problems are, that they do not have to move, but on the other hand you do not want development aid to help people, so that societies can rise so that people do not have to move. You can't be at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u282	Mr President! When asked if they support development cooperation, there are hugely good figures there, and the Finns actually support it up to 90%. I believe that even from today's debate you will see that, in party politics, every party has been of the opinion that development cooperation should be carried out — there has only been some discussion about how to prioritise, how focused and how long it will be. It is strongly supported across the board. My question now relates specifically to this specific development aid order. Can we, for example, have this Finnish preparedness and security of supply that has now been advertised in all the world's newspapers, in some way packaged and sold to the world? If there were more epidemic preparedness in the world, for example, we would have survived this corona with fewer negatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u283	Mr President! This is an unfortunate debate in itself when we have to spend time on two important themes, foreign policy and development cooperation. I would like to talk more about foreign policy, but also about development cooperation. Now I have to answer again at this point that the Finns of Finland understand the value of development cooperation, for example, by Finnish NGOs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u286	Mr President! To Mr Niiko, at the end of this speech, it should be clarified that development policy is very much part of Finland's foreign policy. But I would like to ask myself about the priorities, such as those of this development cooperation. We have a good set of priorities last season, which are based on the strengths of Finland, which the Government also emphasises. But are there any plans to emphasise within these priorities in particular, for example, the girls and women who have been present here? I would also like to ask about the appropriations for crisis management. Of course, decisions are always made on a case-by-case basis, but in what way are UN operations weighted? The annex to the Government Programme includes the clarification and safeguarding of the operating conditions of non-governmental organisations. Is there any information on how progress has been made towards this objective? And again, President: the Government Programme aims to channel 30% through the UN. What's this look like?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u287	Mr President! There has been talk of both geopolitics and value-based foreign policy in this debate, and I think it is important that we do not create any contradiction between them. If we now look at, for example, the greatest common challenges in the world, climate change and unsustainable development, then action against them can be seen as value-based, but it is, to a great extent, a real policy of survival, survival. One bridge between these concepts is rule-based cooperation and strengthening it, perhaps more to maintain it today, because we have an unfortunate number of examples of countries that are breaking away from it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u288	Mr President! One thing we have not yet spoken about is the poisoning of opposition leader Navalny by novichok, who was certainly a shock to everyone and, on the other hand, a reminder of the situation of opposition representatives in Russia. What do you think, Minister Haavisto, is going to happen? Is this where we end up with personal sanctions? Nord Stream has also been mentioned about braking the second. Or what is going to happen in this situation, or where do we want to take this policy? The second question, Minister Haavisto: an embassy was set up in Baghdad in Iraq about a year ago, and there were also some great hopes for commercial cooperation. It would be interesting to know how this cooperation has developed, and also that, when we have quite a few asylum seekers from Iraq who have refused to return to their country of origin, this return policy has developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u289	Mr President! In fact, one more thing I would like to touch on in this debate is the effect of Brexit, because it has implications for the so-called greater security, but also for our trade policy. And now that these meetings on the EU tables are unquestionably absent, I would like to ask you how you have been able to conduct these bilateral meetings and, for Finland, to ensure that Great Britain stays in this security community, is involved in the development of the EU's common defence policy, as it has been seen as part of — this was supposed to be a matter outside Brexit — and then, on the one hand, as regards trade, that our companies have the capacity to take to and bring to Great Britain and there are no additional challenges here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u290	And at this point, I will give the ministers the floor, three minutes. Let's start with Skinner this time. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u291	Thank you, Mr President. — Representatives of Arhinmäki and Judgments, the rule-based system as a whole, as I pointed out in my speech, trade policy and development policy are part of foreign and security policy. I am very pleased and proud of this debate, because I am sure we all understand that everything is related to everything in Finland, and it is also very important to extend the nexus thinking in this respect. ‘Open’, ‘strategic’, ‘autonomous’ may have threewords,which the European Union,in the German leadership’spresidency term,stresses,andthereforesuccess,butthe sameautonomity, sovereignty,which,in some cases,in Europe,in a positive way,isneededto wage a trade But for that we need unity. Mr Tynkkynen, you are quite right: development policy must be long-term. You are absolutely right in that, and I share with you all the challenges, the problems you mentioned. This is exactly the strategic approach we need. So you're talking the full story. Representative al-Taee, Finnish security of supply — yes, it is certainly an export product, and in this, as I said earlier to Mr Kanerva's question, it is a systemic approach between states, but also European and Nordic approaches that we have discussed among development ministers, and it is also related to food security, which is also a strength for us in many ways. All in all, at the European Trade Ministers' meeting in Berlin, we were just going through how we can do better together, and in the case of development ministers, how, in the context of the Africa strategy, under the leadership of Commissioner Urp, Europeans, we will be able to influence the country programmes so that we will be more prepared for new crises in the future, that we will not be caught off guard in any other world, as we are all now. Finally, Mr President, I would like to add to this the perspective of the NGOs that emerged. The Government has invested very much in and appreciated this NGO work. We are currently running a round of applications for communications and global education projects for the years 21-22, — a total of EUR 2 million has been allocated for these years — and a round of applications for operating grants from Finnish UN-backed NGOs for the years 21-22, and here again there is a total of 2 million. The programme support application will open again at the end of October. In other words, in that sense too, we very much appreciate the work of Finnish NGOs and, in particular, the work in the country of destination that we are developing civil society and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u292	Secretary Haavisto, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u293	Thank you, Speaker! Good conversation. I cannot help but touch on one issue of development cooperation, even though it does not belong to my property, and that is the idea of Mrs Kanerva that we should target a country and put the education system or another system in order there. Perhaps it is this donor-beneficiary arrangement that is now breaking down so that there are very few countries for which you can, as it were, do things directly. After all, these countries perhaps want a situation in which they have more partners, they want EU coordination, they want to work with UN organisations. There may not be a situation where anyone would be able to dominate a country’s system. Countries are very sensitive, perhaps, to such overdependence. This is just one observation, all the other things are concerned. This is where the arms exports were talking. Könttä, al-Taee and others raised the question of principles if Finnish weapons are used for human rights violations. That is, of course, the reason for the ban. Finnish instruments cannot be exported to such countries and for such purposes. Could we have better EU coordination? That's what Congressman Könttä needed. This would be desirable if it were not to be the case that when Finland refuses, someone else is going to take it. And especially these dual-use items are problematic. There have also been cases where, first, an unwanted buyer has tried to acquire the product and, when the product has not been sold, the entire company has been bought. So we've bought the whole company. This situation is rather problematic. Representatives Hyrkko and Arhinmäki raised the issue of Uighurs and, in general, how Finland raises human rights issues. We are also raising very difficult situations with China, the Uighur situation, the Hong Kong situation and this type of situation. It is part of the Finnish way and the Finnish negotiations. Human rights issues have also been regularly raised with Russia. There are no taboos here, and I think it is a good thing that this can be done. Representative Sirén asked about the crisis management appropriations and Finland's willingness to be in UN operations, and of course Lebanon is important to us. There is constant discussion with the UN about the skills needed for their operation and where Finland could be good. It was perhaps the way we used to speak here that when we were little, we should have the precision of what we offer in just different situations. I believe that with the UN this dialogue is important. The representative of the Court of Justice paid great attention to this decline in the whole multi-system or rule-based system. And I think what should be done is what is already being done: we have made this multi-world alliance, which supports the maintenance of a rule-based world order, and there are so many Alliance for Multilateralism countries already in this group. Then, last time, I would like to take the question of Navalnyi — the very important question of Mr Kauman. Yes, the EU must also react to it. And, of course, two wrong things have happened. Someone has made the poison, which is forbidden, and someone has placed the poison for use in which a person has been tried to kill. In a way, there have been two abuses, and these must be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u294	At this point, I would like to ask whether there is any willingness to take more speeches. Stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u295	Mr President! I am starting from where the Minister for Foreign Affairs concluded his speech on the idea of ‘allianceformultilateralism ’ — a good, beautiful idea to be supported. At the same time, however, we must remember that it may be risking the foundations of the UN system and it should not be part of it in itself. We are witnessing a phase in which geopolitics are, in a sense, marching out of the backside of the main stage. And the work that is being done on the Finnish basis has been done for decades, mediation and crisis management, and the value-based issues that are important to us are about to be challenged. That is why we appreciate, certainly everyone here in Parliament, the fact that development cooperation,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u296	Mr President! This case of Navalny was on the table here, and the Minister has already responded to it. Mr Kauma was already imposing sanctions on this situation — this, of course, is something you will have to ask when you first need to know who did it and who did it. But the Minister rightly said that Russia owes us a genuine explanation, and this must also be possible internationally if the authorities are not willing to cooperate. After that, of course, we need to think about what we're going to do. In any case, we know that the representative Mr Kauma wanted to say that in Russia, the opposition, the genuine opposition, has little room for manoeuvre, at its worst there are murders, very many legal murders, as we know. Now here is the latest news that Russia seems to be interfering with the opposition in other countries as well, and I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether it is a news duck or a genuine situation in Russia where an arrest warrant has been issued for Svetlana Tihanovskaya, the most visible opposition leader in Belarus at the moment, would have been placed in this position in Russia.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u297	Mr President! I would also like to raise a question which may seem small in this world of foreign policy, but is the world's greatest to those it concerns. Issues related to international adoption have raised widespread concern now during the period of the corona pandemic. Many adoption processes have gone into the ice with the pandemic, and people cannot get their children home. Understandably, it is extremely painful. The Finnish embassies can play a major role in dismantling these international adoptions, as it were. I would like to ask: what is the situation like at the moment, and what can we do to get the children home?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u298	Madam President! The interest crisis has shown in an unfortunate way how important food security is not only here in Finland but also globally. According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), as many as one in nine people on the planet suffer from hunger, and according to UNICEF, one in three children under 5 years of age suffer from malnutrition. At present, extreme weather phenomena are increasing and the resulting many disadvantages are increasing in the world. It also makes food production more difficult globally. In what way could Finland use its own expertise to promote the strengthening of food security in the world and, in particular, in developing countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u299	Mr President! The Navalnyi case is one where Russia's refusal to cooperate is an issue that requires a reaction. In this case, I fully agree with the need to prepare and adopt sanctions in the EU. We have imposed these sanctions, mainly on individuals, in a number of other directions, most recently also in Belarus. But at the same time, the question of how these sanctions actually work is puzzled. It is such a kind of political spinal reaction, understandable and justified that they are flogged, but it is not usually a question of how to get out of them, what kind of law can affect the wrong or event that is causing them to be imposed. And I think this has been lacking in the EU, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u300	Madam President! On this matter of development cooperation, what did Mr Arhinmäki ask us about? After all, it is intended to take sustainable development measures and help those in need. Misuse of development cooperation funds completely undermines the development model and undermines citizens' confidence in development cooperation. That's all this is about, isn't it? When we learned in 2019 that students between 7 and 40 years of age have even been chained up in Nigeria at school, tortured, raped, assaulted, of course we are interested in it, because while we are giving it money, we need to know where the money is going. That's what this is all about. People want to know, don't they? There has been a very good debate here, and I thank the Minister for even agreeing to join us. This is what I asked about education exports in the first question. I can see it's very good. In 2018, teachers already said that the teacher is like an emperor in China. We have such great expertise. I hope that, for example, maternity care, midwives and this awareness
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u301	Mr President! Mr Hyrkko asked a very topical and important question on how to promote the progress of international adoption in this difficult situation. I myself asked myself a written question on the subject in the summer. Mr Kiuru replied, but I am sure that the Foreign Minister will have the opportunity to respond to the question of whether, for example, there is something that could be used in diplomatic relations, or through delegations, as Mr Hyrkko pointed out. I would like to ask again about this entry in the annex to the Government Programme, in which the Government has set itself the goal of clarifying the operating conditions of non-governmental organisations and also the long-term security of such organisations. Has such work begun, and what is its timetable?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u302	Madam President! In the past, we were challenging the views of the Finns, that we are not prepared to help here on the ground and not beyond the borders. I'll tell you what's going on. We cannot accept the irresponsible or loose use of Finnish tax money. We have talked about helping on the ground in refugee camps. When the crisis is over, people can easily get back to their own country. But if that money is spent and wasted on helping those people who can get through Europe to come to Finland, then we have no money for anything else. We do not want this to be supported. The second thing we cannot give money for under any circumstances is development cooperation that goes to corrupt regimes and does not produce results. Here this is simply explained. If we did the right thing, we could give you money, and even a small amount of money could make a lot of difference. I understand the political reality of trying to reverse this, but that is what this is all about. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u303	Mr President! This issue of adoptive parents and adopted children and the assistance of the diplomatic corps on this issue is very important. I would then like to extend it directly to the issue of family reunification, in a way. Many, many families abroad, many families with children, expect to get to Finland, but different interviews have been difficult to arrange, and they have not been able to organise them in a virtual way, for example. At this point, I would like Mr Haavisto to be relieved. My real point now concerns the EU. We have 27 countries, of which France is a nuclear country. What can we do to strengthen EU defence cooperation, especially now that the Arctic region is of particular interest? China bigger than ever before?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u304	Mr President! I would like to return to this situation between Greece and Turkey. Of course, the fact that Turkey has drilled gas on several occasions in the territorial waters and coast of Cyprus is one thing. But the second question is that what, Minister Haavisto, you think is behind these efforts by Turkey. Is this just about gas, or could it be more than that? I will return, for example, to this issue of refugee camps. There are still about half a million Syrian refugees there, apparently, and this has been a sort of blackmail screw towards the EU. So can there be more to this than just the question of gas and who is allowed to use it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u305	Mr President! Here, the Finns of Peru have raised some examples of corruption and failed development projects. If these contexts and countries were easy, they would not need our development cooperation. This sector has been very carefully managed and monitored, and unfortunate mistakes have been made, but they have been tackled and corrected, and the confidence of the public has certainly not been lost, but, on the contrary, 90% consider development cooperation to be important or rather important. I would like to ask when Minister Skinner raised the triple nexus approach on how to work for peace
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u306	Madam Speaker! Here, when this two hours begins to be fulfilled, it is time for us to thank the ministers for being here and for answering every question. And I would like to thank you in particular, even though we disagree on some content issues, Minister Skinner, for doing a good job of promoting Finland's exports. And I hope that you will have the courage to make such reforms that we will catch up with what some people in the Nordic countries, for example, have taken precedence over us. This requires courage, innovation. And then, Mr Haavisto, I would also like to thank you for doing a good job of getting this peace-keeping spirit born there — both on the question of Navalny in the direction of Russia and on these Turkey issues, which are very difficult issues. And when you go on Monday to negotiate with your colleagues, you will take that spiritit with you, but you will also insist that we are the example of the one who shows that agreement can be found through patient cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u307	And this part will be decided by the ministers. Minister Haavisto, 3 minutes, and Minister Skinner, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u308	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank this debate — good speeches, good ideas, excellent questions — and perhaps to raise the two themes that arose in a great many speeches, and I did not comment on them separately: the importance of climate policy as part of foreign policy — it is a matter of fate for us, it is a question of life and death in many ways on this planet — and women's rights, women's and girls' rights, how in different areas through development cooperation, but also in Finland's political activities, they must be visible and visible at the moment. Any support for these is valuable. Congressman Kiljunen asked about the situation in Svetlana Tihanovskaya in Russia, whether he was wanted there. This is my impression, based on press information, that Russia and Belarus have such an agreement on wanted persons, that, when someone is wanted in another country, this will be extended to another, and this is obviously an explanation here, but it also seems to me to be a very politically questionable measure at the moment. More people asked about international adoption: Sirén, Hyrkko and others raised this issue. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made every effort to bring families together. Fortunately, we now have positive cases from the Philippines, we have already been able to bring babies or children, and we are having this debate with Thailand. Thailand's own rules have been the limit here, and we will do everything in our power to ensure that diplomacy is successful. This also relates to this rather broader question of family reunification raised by Al-Tae. You mentioned that when physical interviews were not possible during the corona period, there have been no interviews at all, and I think this is a major problem. It does not depend solely on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but such video interviews and remote interviews in this world would be appropriate, and that would bring these things forward. We have a meeting next week with the ministers on this issue in the government. Let us try to find sensible solutions to that effect. In the Navalnyi case, the representative of the Court of Justice raised this issue of coercion. It is really important to think about what kind of sanctions, how they affect and so on, but I also think it is very important to react to the fact that, when an international rule-based system is being challenged, there must of course be a response from the international community. Mr Kauma asked a good question about this Greek-Turkey-Turkey-Cyprus situation: is it just these natural resources? There is, in a way, an underwater border dispute, that is, the question of where territorial waters and own water rights go, an unresolved one, which should, in fact, be resolved under international law if the parties were to be brought to the same table, but it is also, of course, a hidden or transparent question of the difficult internal situation in Cyprus and the tensions associated with it. And it is regrettable that, as we have seen, this has even made this decision on Belarus difficult in the EU, that this eastern Mediterranean, Cyprus and Turkey issue and so on has been a slow-track in this regard. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u309	Skinnari, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u310	Mr President! For me, too, a big thank you, and at the same time, of course, I would like to thank all those members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all Finns around the world who, even during this crisis, have been able to serve Finnish and Finnish companies, all of us, and in this sense too, I hope that this debate can continue on the details later. Perhaps I myself would draw together this debate on trade, exports, development policy and development cooperation in such a way that the traditional strengths and areas of competence of our Finns and Finland from education to equality, climate competence, democracy, rule of law and transparency are our international strengths, our trademarks, as we are known, women's and girls' rights, sexual and reproductive health and so on. This is what we are doing, and this is what we are investing in. Perhaps, Mr President, a few individual withdrawals to this end. There were a lot of questions. I would like to see that the Taxation and Development Programme is something we would discuss further: how it is reflected in Finland's development cooperation, how it is reflected at country level. It is also a fact that Finland does not provide direct budget support, not for any country, and that is what I want to do as I have to say once again. As regards the role of the United Nations, the UN, yes, we have also been more active in the UN's economic activities, and it has increased most in 2020. The largest are UN Women and UNFPA, the Population Fund. Mr Könttä, excellent speech on food. I myself raised school food at the EU ministerial meeting with the Director-General of the International Food Programme: what has shown how Finland has built society, the well-being of young people and families in a sustainable way. Overall, school food is a good example of this. Representative Juvonen, Education Exports: You're absolutely right. We work daily to ensure that the Finnish education system and Finnish
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u312	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u313	Mr President! Since the financial crisis in 2008, Finland's public finances have not been balanced or reversed even in the years of the rise in the global economy. At the same time, the development of the domestic market has remained weak, although we would also need a much more vibrant domestic market as a growth platform for businesses and, consequently, employment. In the current government programme, expenditure increases were originally built on the optimistic hope of raising the employment rate to 75% as economic growth continued. The interest was the black swan that brought the situation to a halt at the very latest. Now the employment objective has been abandoned by moving it towards the end of the decade. This year, the Finnish government will take out EUR 16.7 billion in debt, and in the September budget debate, the government agreed on measures that will increase the deficit to EUR 10.8 billion next year. The rate of debt is faster than during the financial crisis in the countries of crisis in southern Europe. So acute shocks are becoming a chronic crisis. The fact that the government is not prepared to assess its overall approach makes the situation dangerous. The Government Programme promised to re-evaluate the previously decided expenditure increases in the current year's budget debate if their implementation jeopardised the achievement of the budgetary targets. This entry did not take place; instead, the government has insisted on all agreed expenditure and, above all, on its ideological projects in a situation where the revenue base for expenditure increases has collapsed. Poorly integrated immigration from developing and crisis countries can be a burden on public finances for several generations. The most ambitious climate policy in the world must also give way to economic and technological realities. Realism is also needed for joint responsibilities, and in the EU Recovery Fund Finland is a net contributor of billions. At the same time, it should be noted that Finland still has the lowest standard of living in terms of GDP adjusted for purchasing power, among the traditional EU analogue countries, i.e. Holland, Denmark, Sweden and Belgium. Ministers have argued that this would be a one-off solution, but this is hardly the case. Last time it was suggested from the European Central Bank that the transfer mechanism should be made permanent. By including Finland’s various commitments through the European Union and also through the European Central Bank, the total value of the liabilities assumed by Finland can move in tens of billions of euros. These responsibilities can be dangerous, especially in exceptional situations where financial markets, and possibly also the euro area, are destabilising. In such a situation, the entire government programme should be re-evaluated on a realistic basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u314	Madam President! There is now a record amount of investment in military defence. Finland’s defence budget in 2021 is well above 2% of gross national income, which is in international comparisons higher than in many countries in our neighbourhood. In my opinion, the size of the defence budget should be maintained at more than 2% in the future. Defence policy cannot depend on political or economic conditions. Defence must be taken care of in all circumstances, and that is exactly what the government is doing. The draft budget is a real defence speech. The old outposts of the Border Guard will be replaced by two new ones. The Navy Fleet 2020 will be fully implemented. The current Air Force Hornets will be replaced by new multi-functional fighters. For the record, almost 20,000 reruns will take place next year, if the interest rate situation allows. The number will rise by 1200 from the 2019 level. Almost EUR 1 billion will be allocated to the armed forces' material capacity next year. New soldiers will again be hired as both permanent and contract soldiers. The new tasks will benefit Finland as a whole, and they will be divided into almost all Defence Forces organisations regionally around Finland. Each new mission has a positive impact on the performance of the Defence Forces personnel. The new tasks are equally divided into civilian missions, special officers, officers and officers. The increase in staff will indeed come in need, but more investment will also be needed in the future. The current course is correct, but in the future we will need additional funding to hire new soldiers on top of these increases. It is clear that, in times of uncertainty, investments in safety will be emphasised. Mr President! The cornerstones of Finnish security must be maintained at all times. Investing in defence and Finland's defence capability is patriotic, and we can certainly all agree on this in this Chamber. It is also true that Finland, which is socially integrated, is stronger than Finland in terms of defence. In times of crisis, the functioning of the rule of law and civil society will be weighed. Next year's economic performance is a budget of law and order that emphasises Finland's security, the functioning of society, social peace and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u315	Madam President! The interest crisis has put countries in the face of difficult decisions around the world. In order to protect human lives, we have had to take the necessary measures, which affect society as a whole. In Finland, too, mobility and business activities have had to be restricted, which has severely destabilised both the public and the state economy. It is estimated that the government will be in debt this year by an estimated 18 billion, and next year's budget, presented by the government, will further increase the debt burden by nearly 11 billion. The interest will inevitably entail costs for the State, as demonstrated by, for example, one item of EUR 1.4 billion for interest rate testing. These expenses should not be compromised. However, the interest-rate crisis must not be used as a means of avoiding responsibility for difficult decisions, nor must it be used to achieve its own ideological objectives. In connection with indebtedness, the Government has called for a road map to restore the Finnish economy to a sustainable career by the end of the decade. However, inadequate employment measures and at the same time reckless indebtedness threaten to push Finland into a path that no longer finds a way back. In presenting the budget, Mr Vanhanen said that the government's efforts were to ensure that the temporary effects of the interest rate would not remain permanent. However, the situation seems to be the opposite for Finns, as the government is taking Finland under the pretext of corona into the recovery package, which will change the position of Finland for a very long time. The principles of the EU as a whole will be reinstated and Finland will, at the same time, be subject to a total liability of EUR 13 billion, which will further jeopardise the state of public finances. Mr President! Mr Vanhanen, Minister of Finance, presented the recovery package as a necessary solution to enable us to make a leap to the new era and hoped that Parliament would give the recovery package a green light. The recovery package would indeed be an irreversible leap towards a new era, namely a federal state and a common debt. However, the 50,000 signatures collected in a few days for the referendum-requested citizens’ initiative are a strong signal that Finns should be asked what color light they want to show for the recovery package. The Government repeatedly reminds us of how Finland is part of the global system, and in this way tries to justify when. However, in its own ideological passion, the government seems to forget what globalisation means for Finland. Finland is a small country with limited resources and influence. We alone cannot save the world's climate or eradicate poverty. Nevertheless, with its budget, the government shovels huge amounts of money for climate projects, increases the amount of development aid to 1.2 billion and wants more immigrants in Finland. Even with these projects, we cannot save the world, but it is possible for us to destroy the well-being of our own and future generations. By taxing and indebtedness Finns in the name of global well-being and driving companies out of Finland with too ambitious climate goals, we do not contribute to the Prime Minister's call for a genuine united spirit on behalf of the country. Although the government was concerned that it decided not to increase the taxation of work or business, it would not bring back the jobs that have already moved away as a result of the already high costs. Mr President! While the government is focusing its attention and distributing money abroad, it will forget that Finland is also a large country with a large area of land for which jobs are needed. The unemployed operator of the peat industry does not find it comforting that the employment wheel is offered as a tax-free advantage. A person living in rural areas who travels by car to work and warms his own house does not find it comforting that in southern Europe his money will allow us to continue paying lower taxes. The government is scaring the public that if we are not involved in green projects, capital will flee the country and we will starve with fossil fuels. However, disciplining the countryside and mobility will not attract any investment here, and as a result, the government will only smite the provinces with its own policy. The government also suggests that the budget is a bridge building for a new era. In fact, the new era seems to be a red - green period, which means that the paving of this bridge is being torn from the villages of the countryside and from the roads between jobs and homes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u316	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, who are still here. The budget revenue for next year is EUR 53.4 billion and the budget is EUR 64.2 billion. The draft budget is EUR 10.8 billion in deficit. This year we will be in debt of EUR 16.7 billion, and next year we will be in debt of EUR 10.8 billion, which means that we are really on the path to debt. Madam President! Korona has played a hard role throughout the year in Finland, and we have all been in this same boat. The battle against the corona has been hard. Jobs have been lost and people are still losing them before this year is over. At the same time, however, our Prime Minister doubts whether companies have social responsibility. I mean, this really got in my ear. I would have liked to ask the city centre if you agree. However, entrepreneurs are the ones who create the jobs in Finland. We should not talk about labour shortages, but about lack of jobs. And all the glory and thanks to the entrepreneurs for still holding up in the middle of this corona. Madam President! We are in the middle of big business, and I think that the government programme should be relegated accordingly. Among other things, we are about to reform social welfare and health care, and we have already heard from municipal leaders throughout Finland how future social security will cause economic distress. For example, EUR 400 million is negative for Uusimaa and EUR 91-92 per person in Espoo alone would cause this future social security, and they are big, big figures, and at the same time we are already in deficit. I would like to ask myself how to bring the war to the finish line, what on the shoulders, because the situation is so difficult. We should devote all our strength to the fact that we are now rejecting the corona. In the midst of all this, just in October, the Human Resources Act came into force, and it would now be very important for sufficient resources to be allocated for next year in order to achieve that law. Now it's 0.5 this year, and next year it's 0.55. The number of carers that are increasing is not very high, but it would be good if operators preferred to hire more carers than too few. Mr President! A few thanks to the government. I just heard from Mr Haatainen that my idea of a summer voucher is moving forward, and I look forward to what it will be like. The intention would be to encourage young people to work, for example, next summer, to have summer jobs for them. I suggested that the summer voucher could also be used in households. Households could hire more young people. Mr President! I'd also like to thank you for the hospice. I have been talking about it here for years, and apparently now the themes of hospice care are finally being recorded in the law. So I no longer need to bring it here as a budget initiative. As far as the recovery package is concerned, when citizens are asked, they feel that it goes beyond the distress and distress of the Finns. We feel that the recovery package money is direct support for the budgets of the states and does not actually hit the corona crisis. They support the budgets of those countries which have failed to manage their economies. The amount of debt is increasing, but it is not allowed to buy the next elections. When everyone is given everything, this is the image that comes out of it. The nursing debt is a big problem that we're going to have to deal with for the whole next year. This means that, now that unsolicited treatment has been restricted, people have remained in queues and they will last for years to come. The interest supplement, Madam President, would certainly be a good employment measure for the carers. Today we learned that Attendo brings nurses from the Philippines to Finland. We all know what's happened before. They are highly trained nurses, but because of language skills problems, among other things, they are not able to work as a nurse but are actually doing the nursing assistant's duties. Is it not entirely wrong that we should bring high-skilled nurses with skills but actually end up doing the lowest-paid job? This is if someone's underpaid, and this is wrong. That's what I wanted to say. Madam President! The budget is in debt. We live in the midst of the corona. Let's try and do everything we can to deal with the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u317	Mr President! Under the leadership of the Minister for Labour, Mr Haatainen, the Government has made a major reform of the employment agenda by making bold decisions to strengthen employment. I welcome these decisive steps. The resources of employment services will be strengthened so that they are closer to the Nordic level. The reform of the Nordic model of employment services will bring flexibility to jobseekers. The unreasonable is given up, and the carnival is rationalised. In the reform, I think it is important to support and develop job search in such a way that employment becomes faster. In the future, customer orientation will be emphasised and the unemployed face-to-face face-to-face at the TE service point in the beginning of the job search every two weeks. In addition, the job search obligation focuses on the working capacity of the unemployed and the workplace situation in the region. Through the encounter of jobseekers, the employment service becomes effective and active, and the monitoring of job search will shorten periods of unemployment. Unemployment benefit will remain free of charge, although the focus of compulsoryity will change. For these activities, the resources of the TE Offices will be increased by EUR 70 million. Mr President! In addition, the Ministry of Labour will invest in simplifying pay subsidies. The use of pay subsidies will be significantly increased in companies. The level of support will be set at 50% regardless of the length of unemployment and the level of wage subsidies for those who are able to work part-time will be raised to 70%. The organisations will continue to receive 100% wage support. As a result of this reform, the amount of pay subsidies is estimated to increase by up to 4500 per person-year. More attention will also be paid to those who are able to work part-time. For them, the Finnish model will be built for employment in the brokerage market. It is important to invest in part-time skills and create new opportunities for them to find employment through services. For too long, those who are able to work part-time have been interveners. Mr President! In the future, youth employment will be supported and developed through the Ohjaamos, which will be able to guide young people in the field of employment with expertise. For this purpose, municipalities receive incentives to hire training and social work professionals. The model is being prepared for funding from the EU Recovery Package. Mr President! Here, too, humanity is emphasized. It is easy to warmly support this part of the budget that takes account of the human and human value base.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u318	Mr President! The uncertain situation in the global economy is also strongly reflected in Finland, as we have often seen when dealing with this draft budget. The challenges have hit almost all sectors, such as industry and exports, but services have also been hit particularly badly and immediately. Nutritional movements, tourism, the field of events and many others are struggling to survive in the face of the corona epidemic around the world. We must now work hard to ensure that, first of all, existing jobs are maintained, but at the same time we must also be able to create the conditions for the creation of new jobs. The Government's draft budget for 2021 seeks to meet both these challenges. Entrepreneurs will be supported so that healthy businesses do not collapse as a result of this crisis. Labour services will be improved in order to make job search more individual in the future and to serve the jobseeker as well as possible. Mr President! Employment services are now being developed towards the model of Nordic job search. When the former active model penalised the unemployed by cutting unemployment allowance, a much more humane model has now been introduced. If an unemployed person cannot find a job without his or her own fault, unemployment benefit will not be cut immediately. The rights and obligations of the unemployed must be balanced. The Karens will be moderated and the job seeker will not be punished for failure, but rather rewarded for trying. The job seeker also has the opportunity to choose for himself which job opportunities he or she is looking for, and they must also have a real chance of finding employment. The obligation to seek a job is prepared in such a way that it takes into account the ability of the unemployed to work and the workplace situation in the region, and nobody is required to be impossible. The model of individual job search proposed by the government is therefore fair, human and fair. Mr President! There is a great deal of potential for those who are able to work part-time, but for some reason they have been overlooked far too little in the past. Many people who are able to work part-time would like to get into work, but there are hardly any suitable models available. In this instance, the government is now offering a solution. In order to employ part-time workers, a 70% wage subsidy will be allocated, and in the intermediate labour market, a Finnish model will be built on the experience gained from Sweden and the previous experiences of the Finnish work bank experiment. The model of employment in the intermediate labour market is intended to convey to businesses the contribution of people with disabilities and those with disabilities. In Sweden, a similar type of operator employs up to 25,000 part-time employees. Mr President! Finally, a few words about trust. It's glue that builds society. Trust is needed in order to be agreed. Internally stable countries also make investors trust it and place themselves here. The Social Democrats have always been in favour of a contractual society, and that is what we want to continue to uphold. It creates predictability and security for both employees and employers. Local agreements can be developed with due respect for existing labour law. Among other things, these actions support the Government’s employment objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u319	Mr President! In fact, I stayed in this Chamber because Mrs Könttä made a very heavy speech here and I wanted to supplement it a little. I had thought at all that it would be worth saying a few words about this defence and security policy. In the meantime, however, I would like to respond to Mr Tynkkys when, when we were dealing with the previous point, he twisted the approach of the Finns, which said that you cannot accept the misuse and irresponsible use of taxpayers' money in development cooperation. If that is the approach of the Finns on development cooperation, then I must say that we Social Democrats, at least I share, fully share that principle.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u322	Mr President! The representative spoke strongly about defence policy just now. I will be happy to return to this theme again today. I hope we will have time for that too, but I also take the liberty of talking about transport policy when tomorrow we are discussing the section of the Ministry of Transport. When it comes to transport and communication, we talk about the fundamental pillars of our everyday life and society, that Finns throughout this vast country have the opportunity to live, engage, try and work. Next year's draft budget supports the idea of the whole country being driven forward by the people of the centre around this country. Promoting diversity, regional equality and support for people’s freedom of choice — these are the reasons why it is important to be interested in transport and communication issues. The budget therefore reflects both the continuation of the increased level of state aid for basic infrastructure maintenance and private roads, the launch of new bus projects and the construction of broadband. It is true that people, goods and information can move, and that is what we are investing in. In particular, I am pleased that a mandate of EUR 19 million is proposed to improve the Tampere-Jyväskylä track, which is important for the accessibility of Central Finland, of which EUR 7 million will be allocated for the coming year, i.e. 2021. The mandate for the Viitasaari road, just over EUR 21 million, presented by Highway 4 will also be a real need. The allocation of EUR 5 million from this mandate for next year will improve road safety and traffic flow. We improve the safety of bypass lanes, different level interfaces, lighting and game fences. This government is on the side of movement and transport, contrary to what the opposition sometimes claims. Mr President! I personally do not accept the theoretical proposals recently made by professors and other experts on drastic increases in taxes on fuels.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u324	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u325	Madam President! A moment ago, a completely absurd proposal was heard about the employment of Finns. We in the opposition have called for measures to be taken to ensure that this government takes this situation seriously, which is currently the case in Finland: we are in an economic emergency, we need more employment immediately. Well, in this Green presentation, it was a question of taking more cheap labour here in Finland, and this was publicly presented here. The employment of Finns should be raised, and it is proposed that more cheap labour be taken from elsewhere, foreigners in Finland. In what way does this work for Finns? In addition to that, we also see in the light of statistics that many of these immigrants who come into low-paid sectors in just a few years' time will depend on social security, which means that in order to pay that social security to these immigrants, then more Finns will have to go to work, pay their taxes so that these immigrants who have come here to Finland in low-paid sectors can be paid for this social protection. In fact, this same idea has been put forward at the meeting of the Green Chair, represented by Maria Ohio, where this figure was 80,000 work-related immigrants by 2030. Madam President! Such means do not increase the employment of Finns, not at all. Such measures will, as it were, jump into a really big swamp, and after that we will be forced to employ even more Finns in order to pay for this fun. In addition to these proposals to increase employment through immigration, there is an extremely serious moral problem, and that is the fact that we currently have so many Finnish unemployed, and in particular it is morally unacceptable that when we have so much youth unemployment in this country, we bypass these young people and then offer jobs for work-related immigration. When you come to the low-paid sector, then you almost always compete with these immigrants and Finnish young people, students, because the first jobs are just the cashier of the store where you yourself have been, it is the cleaning business, it is the personal assistant where you yourself have been, and so on. We will therefore turn our backs on these Finnish young people. And I would say that it is only after the employment of Finnish young people and the wider unemployed can we begin to discuss the fact that what if there were more to come here in these areas, if it were to be said that there would then be a need. I will certainly not condemn it if it is about this kind of high-skilled immigration: will be set up businesses, hired workers through it and so on. That is something we have never condemned as basic Finns. That's a good thing. But what the government is proposing, what was heard from the Greens today in this Chamber, what President-in-Office, Maria Ohio, has highlighted in her own speeches is precisely about bringing cheap labour to Finland, and this will be a bulwarking burden for us Finns. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u326	Madam President! We have thousands of illegal residents in Finland — the exact figure is not known — and it would be very important that these illegal residents, even if they are seeking social and health care services, should be registered. After all, the Social Welfare Act was discussed in the Parliament in 2017, which replaces the services of illegal residents to municipalities, and this budget book always contains a certain amount of money each year, approximately EUR 6 million, then reserved for that money. At that time, we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health made various statements, including that these illegal residents should be registered, and our presentation received support from the Greens, among others, in the great Chamber of Parliament. I would have liked you to be able to hold a debate in the government and take forward these proposals, which were supported together at the time. There was also a cost monitoring and encouragement to leave the country, because it is not in anyone's interest that illegal residents are here in Finland. Mr President! These were those who were illegally resident and what the budget book says about them, but I would like to raise a few more points here. In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, care for the elderly is mentioned and raised, an extremely important issue, and this care staff, which I have just spoken about, but also the development of informal care and home care. I see that our biggest goal in the care of the elderly next year is to develop home care, and I hope that the government is actually preparing the staffing dimension for that home care too, because at the moment it does not exist, and it is always a little guesswork about the way in which home care is done, whether there is enough staff there. It would be very important for home care to be put in order next year, now that this staffing measure has already been put in place for this long-term care. To the extent that I hope the government will take note of the fact that, once this year has been exceptional, many family carers have not been able to take statutory holidays, so how could they possibly keep them on the side of next year, if there is a better prospect? This is because care facilities have simply been closed down, they have not been there, and family carers have then stayed in their own homes to care for their loved ones — of course they have been happy to do so, because safety has been very important to everyone in these difficult times. The nursing debt, which lasts for a long time next year, also includes dental care, including looking at the teeth of the elderly. They may not be able to get there for treatment. It is very important that the government, especially the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, bear this in mind, as well as the fact that serious diseases are not unsearchable and untreated and tumors are not cut because of the delay in urgent treatment and the risk of people being afraid to seek treatment there. So it is important to communicate on the board line also about what can be done, what can't be done, what can't be done in the corona period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u327	Mr President! I do not want to open the debate on immigration in principle now, and I would like to say perhaps just one thought about it. This whole debate, now that I have listened to it here recently and, of course, over a longer period of time, we are drawing attention to what it means to us as a host country, that people come from abroad. This forgets the other corner of the word freedom of movement. We recognise that debate in another way when we say that there have been prisons of nations that cannot be removed from them, and we have started by saying that the right to move out of the country must be guaranteed to everyone. Everyone must have the opportunity to move around the world. Its reverse side is immigration, and suddenly it has become a huge dilemma. The world is getting smaller, people are moving — not only technology, capital, goods are moving across borders and information. But I don't want to open this conversation. And very briefly this defence policy, which was not completed. With regard to the acquisition of the destroyer, I wanted to say that I recognise the starting point for this being the defence of the country, the defence needs of the country, and that is why we are taking this decision. There are five competing fighter manufacturers: the United States, with which a direct negotiation with the State — directly with the Pentagon — and then in Europe, three manufacturers of equipment with which commercial agreements are concluded. There will then be an agreement with the United States of America if it does not, which will also be discussed in Congress in due course. But what is the big question here is that this is a fixed price tender. And in the sense that we wanted to fully replace the Hornets' performance, we do not know whether we will fully replace it over or under, because this is price-determining. But that performance is there, the military performance, which is the key competitive criterion. And now I would like to open that question once again — to understand the matter itself — that military capability is, however, only one aspect of our security when we talk about security needs. At least as great a safety factor in this competitive situation is to assess the strategic interests of the acquisition in relation to the region in which the destroyer comes. Another big issue, which is also in large-scale security: It is essential for economic development and so on what kind of domestic contribution this process will make. What is the nature of industrial cooperation, the research, product development input, what does this get, the training arrangements, all that possible? What is the degree of domesticism when, however, we talk about a project of EUR 30 billion over 50 years? And I would hope that, when we have this debate here in Parliament in the future, we will also pay attention to this industrial cooperation and to these interdependencies, which are also important for security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u328	Madam President! In my opinion, Mr Kiljunen's excellent point raised this debate on defence policy. In its own way, we might even need such a wide-ranging debate on foreign and security policy in this Chamber — perhaps even a longer time — where this issue could be discussed more extensively. I fully agree with you that defence policy and defence security, in general security policy, are broader concepts than a mere defence budget. They understand what had already been discussed today: diplomacy, overall national security and the way in which we live in Europe and in the world. I myself spoke of this 2% share of GDP. I believe that this is a good quantitative objective, on which we will now be able to be on the better side next year and hopefully for as long as possible. It makes it possible for a large country such as ourselves to invest in defence needs that are undoubtedly required by this location of ours. And I believe that, in the same way that, for example, a quantitative objective can be set for development cooperation, such a quantitative objective may also exist in defence policy. But, Mr Kiljunen, you have raised this HX project, and I agree that this draft budget makes a decision in principle on how to proceed with this project. Perhaps it would be particularly important for Parliament to have discussed this even more widely than it is now discussing. We will allocate next year to the HX project and will continue to harvest it for the following years. We reserve EUR 10 billion for these direct costs and I fully agree that there will be additional costs, operating costs, as we have seen from similar projects in other countries. But now this EUR 10 billion will hopefully replace fully the capacity we now have in the Hornets. In view of this, it would be good if there were — I do not know whether we could even make a discussion about it — such a foreign and security policy debate. Or perhaps it will happen when the report on foreign and security policy is discussed in Parliament, it may be the right forum. But it would be good if, as is certainly the case, both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence were present in this debate. But I am glad that yesterday and today we have a defence policy debate. I must say that I am also very pleased that Parliament is quite united in these big lines, in the big issues when it comes to the security of the country and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u329	Madam President! Here, Mr Kiljunen, you spoke earlier about how you think immigration policy is being mistreated in Finland. You spoke about how the perspective on immigration is more beneficial to us. Here you must be criticising the way this debate is being held on the side of the Chamber. In other words, we Finns are not talking about what good it is for Finland. We emphasise how it does not benefit Finland. You emphasise how you buy a good conscience by being helped. You also emphasise how every euro spent on the refugee, when they are taken here, comes back multiple times, how it improves our dependency ratio and so on, so on. You keep talking on the side of the road about what it will do for Finland. We should talk about how we can help those people who are really in need. Mr President! When we talk about the people, about the young men who have left Iraq, for example, who have adventured over the Mediterranean, who have gone from one country to another in Europe, eventually even Sweden, but even Sweden has not been accepted, but even Sweden has been applied for asylum across the border to Finland, so it is not really people who are in need that are being talked about, but people who want to shop with different social security systems, with different social models, which brings the best benefits to themselves. If we are actually talking about the people in need, then we are actually talking about the people who are in refugee camps at the UN, especially those children, women, the elderly. They're there, they never do this kind of shopping, they accept the help they're offered, and when the crisis is over, when the crisis is over. Isis is defeated when so on, so on, they get back quickly from that neighborhood to return to their own region. But the fact that we are wasting the resources of our assistance on these young men who come through Europe and who, unfortunately, have caused certain problems, which we have seen in the news, is not in any way responsible or helpful. I myself am quite prepared, like the whole party I represent, to stop talking about the benefits of immigration, precisely this kind of humanitarian immigration, which you referred to, is for Finland, because there is no such thing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u330	Mr President! I stayed here a while longer. This debate on security policy is necessary and will take place on a large scale in the context of the reports. In this fighter project, where this politician is able to make decisions — and we are now making these decisions — there are actually three strands, and they can be on the agenda at all: how much money is being given to it in the budget, that is, what scale is it on this issue, what is the timetable for this project, and thirdly, where they are being acquired. These are actually the three things. It is now in this budget that we will end these first two things, its allocation and, secondly, its timetable. The third thing that is open here is, of course, the most important thing — I referred to strategic dependence and other things — that is to say, where it comes from. I will not open that debate at all now, but I hope that we will have that wide-ranging debate. This immigration: you misunderstood, Mr Tynkkynen, my expression of useful thinking. I looked at it in such a way that we are having a discussion from side to side about what this phenomenon of immigration means for Finland. We rarely have a serious debate about what it is for that immigrant: whether for love he will come here, whether he will study here, whether he will come for work or whether he will genuinely come for asylum. Mr Tynkkynen, I can assure you that I have had some experience in my life of being in very difficult refugee situations and I also know these boat refugees. I have just visited these boat refugees camps in Palermo. You are right, there are many young men who cross borders here in Europe. But what are they coming for? You are wrong about that if you say that they are going to come here for the subsidies provided by the social security system. They come here to do what Finns did when they went to America or when they went to Sweden: they come for a job.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u331	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u333	On this point, I would like to point out that this sitting will end at 10 a.m. but that it can then be resumed on other days.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u334	Mr President! I still want to take part in this last theme of the evening. I think it is important for us not to look at this immigration from the potholes, not from the left or from the right, but from the perspective of different people. Perhaps the previous representative referred to this as an attempt to see a little more broadly this whole, and I think it is important that this immigration is also referred to, as if not as a single unit, in the sense that it contains a wide range of immigration. There are quota refugees there, for example Finland takes about 1,000 quota refugees a year through UNHCR. I think that system is quite right, and it can talk about the duty or sense of duty to help those who are the weakest. Then we have asylum seekers. In Europe, too, we have seen quite a large-scale movement of asylum seekers, in which Finland undoubtedly did not succeed in the best possible way by the government that started in 2015. I believe that the government, under the leadership of the Centre Party, the Finns Party and the National Coalition Party, tried to do its best, but it did not succeed in the best possible way. Then we also have work-related immigration, we have, for example, intra-European work-related immigration — I myself have worked outside Finland for a few years — and that too is needed. And, above all, in Finland we will need work-related immigration, skilled people, for example in the high tech sector, but also nurses, for example. We're gonna have a big shortage of nurses. In other words, in the debate on immigration, I would perhaps like to see this broader perspective and also the fact that immigration is very different. It must also be possible to have a critical debate, but I hope that we will also see other people's points of view and, if necessary, correct the mistakes that have been made. But I personally see that the quota refugee system, when it works and we genuinely help those in need, makes sense. I also understand that there are asylum seekers, and the common systems of the European Union, for example, are the most sensible. And work-related immigration: from my point of view, I feel that work-related immigration — skilled people — is welcome in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u335	Madam President! Mr Könttä, you spoke about how refugees could be admitted to Finland through the quota refugee system, specifically the UN. And in this regard, I can say that in the Basic Finns we have specifically suggested that if humanitarian immigration, such as free asylum, cross the Swedish border and there on the border, people from Sweden are clearly told who are seeking asylum in Finland, that, based on the Dublin agreements, you have no reason to apply for asylum in Finland when you are already in Sweden, and if this is brought to an end, then one of these numbers of refugees can then be negotiated through quotas from the UN refugee camps. But so far, unfortunately, we have not found the capacity to do so, but, as crazy as it is, we have been allowed to apply for asylum in Finland, and so we have, as it were, uncontrollable costs. And these will have a huge impact on the future budget, on the future budgets. We always have to pay uncontrollably for reception centres that may rise like mushrooms in the rain, as we have seen before. They're unloading them, they're lifting them up again. This will result in administrative costs, a huge amount of costs for our judicial system, for example, which we will have to bear in mind. Now that we have dealt with, for example, the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice in this budget, new costs are coming in precisely in order to improve the legal protection of asylum seekers. This, in fact, has a budgetary impact on this too. These randomist asylum seekers who: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u336	Parliament's plenary session will continue. Let's continue today at 12 noon with the adjourned session. The 19th issue of the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present, as usual, to move to the ministerial box. Now I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u337	Congressman Slunga-Poutsalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u338	Mr President! We, the Finns of Peru, have been seeking concrete measures from the government to improve employment and increase the profitability of work. Because that is the task of the government. You will answer this call in a strange way: with tolls. According to information, the plans for tolls or congestion charges appear to have been well advanced, at the same time as you have made a major historic fuel tax increase, and you are probably already planning to do the following. Do you really think, Mr Government, that people are driving for pleasure to work, and by punishing them for this, emissions are decreasing and jobs are increasing?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u339	Mr President! At least in part this concerned taxation. So the government doesn't think people drive to work for fun. Finland must be able to move, and this will continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u340	Mr President! This week, we have received quite unique research data, even of international importance, on what are really the means of reducing emissions, with the aim of halving transport emissions from 05 to 30 for both the governments of Marin, Rinte and Sipilä. And from this material VTT and Aalto University have been informed that if congestion charges were to be introduced — there is no preparation for it yet, and that would in any case be the city’s own solution — their impact would appear to be quite modest in the light of this unique data.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u341	And now I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Representative Slunga-Poutsalo continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u342	Mr President! We now have to take up Minister Haraka's comment on the fact that there is not yet any preparation. 2.6. The Finnish state reached the result of negotiations with municipalities, among other things, that HSL and the Helsinki region will start developing tolls. A beloved child has many names: emission charge, congestion charge, toll, toll or mileage tax. You're not trying to throw this through by changing the name, are you? A recent poll by the U.S.A. reports that the people reject such plans. They're trying to rip more out of the backskin of a worker and a small entrepreneur. In this situation, Mr Government, is such legislation not to be adopted, because this is a full extension of the tax base, i.e. an employment tax?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u343	Mr President! This is some shadow boxing. The MAL agreements were signed today with the four largest urban regions in Finland. They represent an important investment in sustainable and accessible transport. On the other hand, as regards congestion charges, tolls and so on, there is still a record of the Government Programme. They were not crossed out in the MAL agreements, but are still in preparation for the Ministry of Finance insofar as it is progressing, not more quickly. And, as I said, ultimately no municipality will have to introduce such a congestion charge if it so decides.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u344	Mr President! It was argued that the preparation was underway. It's not going on. The preparation schedule has been agreed in the Government Programme for the end of the parliamentary term. At the Ministry of Finance, the preparatory resources in these sectors are currently focusing on the overall reform of future transport taxation, which will be ready next spring. The next steps can only be taken after this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u345	Mr President! The municipalities have been involved in this MAL agreement. Many municipalities have given a clear message in Uusimaa: “No” to certain people. In Hyvinkää, we discussed this a few weeks ago in the council. The Finns of Peru suggested that Hyvinkää's will must be that congestion charges should not be introduced. By the way, we lost a few votes. I understand that the Green Left was in favour of tolls and taxes, but that the city centre
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u346	Mr President! In the context of the MAL agreement, no decisions have been made on tolls or congestion charges, they have been identified in the Government Programme. The Government Programme has announced that legislation allowing congestion charges will be laid down during this parliamentary term, there is nothing else...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u348	Mr President! A low-income working Finn has been driven into a rather strange situation, especially in the capital region. The rent level is so high that there is often nothing left behind from the salary. This is largely due to the fact that people from abroad, whose housing is costing society, are constantly moving here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u353	Mr President! Total taxation on transport, including VAT, is about EUR 8 billion. It has been at that level for a very long time — all parties have been in government during that time. A significant part of our society's funding is based on different forms of taxation in transport. The last tax solutions that the government has presented to Parliament are not blackmailing but lightening. Rather, the taxation of employment benefits is being reduced rather than tightened.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u354	Mr President! The cost of driving is very high in Finland. In the draft budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, environmental issues are at the top of the priority list, the promotion of over-effective and affordable mobility. In Finland, especially in rural areas, distances are long and public transport is weak in some places. Korona has pushed very many Finnish economies into tight straits. Now all the relief from everyday spending is more than necessary. The Government aims to support electric motoring and cycling through taxation, but expensive electric spending games are not an option for everyone's purses. In this situation, we should consider reducing the tax burden on motor vehicles and not any tolls. As the cost of driving would fall, more would be used for other consumption. That's what our companies need right now. I would ask the minister in question: what is the government going to do to reduce the cost of driving for all Finns — including those who do not have a nearby mall with charging points for an electric car or money for these more expensive transport games? True Finns think it would be important to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u358	Mr President! Thank you for the question that is important to the questioner. The heart of the Ministry of Transport and Communications is the smooth movement of Finland and the fact that roads and tracks are in good condition. And, as you may know, in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, this government has decided to add EUR 300 million each year, i.e. EUR 1.2 billion in basic bus maintenance during this term of government. Furthermore, in order to help people to afford public transport, we have already increased public transport support by EUR 100 million in the amending budget so far, so that more alternatives can be made available also in rural areas, including remote areas, where ely connections ensure that everyone can move forward. This is a matter of our heart, and we will try to do our best to ensure, even under these difficult circumstances, that travel is going well in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u359	Mr President! However, it seems that the government's attitude towards transport taxation is perverse. You are going to increase taxes, and whether they are congestion charges or tolls or whatever, it will increase the cost of driving and the cost of working, and the coalition is definitely against it. I hope that government ministers will get to know the European situation. Germany will increase support for electric cars. It's going to put them in place so that 2030 is 10 million. This means that a significant number of used high-emission cars will also enter Finland with this car tax structure. And if you, the government and the Minister for Finance, do nothing, then we will see an unprecedented rush of old cars into Finland, and then all these emissions targets in transport will get out of hand. You're not making this mistake, are you?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u360	Mr President! As I said, the Ministry of Finance is in the process of reforming the overall taxation of transport in the working group. That group's presentation will be ready next spring. And when we look at the taxation of future transport, we are faced with the very great challenge of gradually moving towards fossil-free transport, a significant part of the tax base on which society collects an important part of its tax revenue, at the same time disappears and we need to change the structure of transport taxation. But that does not mean that we are now changing the structure in order to increase the tax burden on transport and to make it more difficult for people, especially for long distances. There's no such plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u361	Mr President! Finland is a country of long distances and we really need private cars now and in the future. The Centre will not accept solutions that place regions and people in an unequal position across Finland. And the fact is that the climate is not only saved by making driving too expensive. It would only be a transfer to the rich. I believe that the scientists mentioned by Minister Haraka have considered halving transport emissions from only one particular point of view and from a certain direction. Mr Finance Minister, could we look here in Parliament and also develop motoring as a natural right for people?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u362	Mr President! I would not call this a tax mix, but it is an important part of our tax system, which we will not get anywhere from. EUR 8 billion is an enormous amount in the state budget, and I do not want to create unwarranted expectations that large items could be taken from it. As far as transport is concerned, the most important thing that has happened in the last year is the rapid increase in telework for well-known reasons. It has made transport much easier, reduced people's costs, and this is one of the things that Parliament could think about, what the prospects for the future are for more telework to be done permanently in the future. And otherwise, we must try to change the structures of transport in such a way that it is possible to drive, but this is done with low or non-existent emissions. I hope it would be cheap. I hope it would be safe.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u363	Mr President! I would like to thank the honourable Members for their excellent questions. We really have a unique opportunity right now to look at the various options that achieve the objective of halving transport emissions from 05 to 30, that is, the smartest, most fair means of doing so. And here we have many important ways. The government has not yet begun its decision-making process. With regard to the solution, I can only say that there is a very wide range of means which also contribute to motoring: the addition of biofuels, biogas also to heavy traffic; the renewal of the car fleet to zero emissions; low emissions; car manufacturers' own standards both in Finland and in Europe; and, as I have already mentioned, large investments in road maintenance, rail maintenance; and, last but not least, the investments in several hundreds of millions of euros in an additional budget in June, specifically on roads and railways.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u364	Mr President! When the Minister mentioned just now that there will be a new tax reform, is the government really going to pay for electric cars with tolls? So those who cannot afford to buy a new car and drive an old Ford Mondeo or an Opel Astra or something are paying for this project Humpa.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u365	Mr President! No such mandate has been given. I wouldn't call electric motoring anything like that. It is, of course, a very strong trend in the world. In Norway, it seems that 80% of cars are already partly electric. It will be the future in Finland too, but their purchasing prices are still too expensive for the majority of Finns. But gradually, when they are used, they will also be transferred to the sale of secondhand cars. This development is relatively slow, but it is inevitable, and it will be accompanied by these biogases, ethanols, biodiesels, other power forces that will enable us to drive, but we will do so without emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u366	Mr President! The government's intention to allow tolls, that is, a new duty on employment, is completely absurd. The City Greens have clearly got their way when the demarches, the center and the RKP were apparently not interested enough in the interests of those working and entrepreneurs. You said that there is no preparation, but in the region, in Uusimaa, the matter has been prepared. According to the plan presented by the Helsinki region, the toll would be up to 1500 euros per year for a working person who is working outside Ring 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u367	Mr President! As I said, this preparation is not yet under way, but it is quite certain that the municipalities of the Helsinki region – where there are, of course, hopes for this payment – do not have the right to decide, for example, on how the Ring Three, the state-built and paid road, some charges would be charged. It requires legislation, and that is where this Chamber will be able to participate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u368	Mr President! My very brief comment is that even by repeating this argument, it will not become true. This intimidation that you are running here is a one-and-a-half-year-old text. Still no preparation exists,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u369	Mr President! Minister Harakka, here you called for the smart means of reducing transport emissions. What if, first of all, you withdrew the tax subsidy you made right at the beginning of this term of government on paraffinic diesel, that is, domestic diesel, which reduces emissions by 90%? Instead, you raised taxes, and this period you have increased taxes on both petrol and diesel more than any previous government in the 21st century. If you think of Finland as a country of long distances, a country of few settlements, this is poison to the purchasing power of citizens. And in that sense we are indeed wondering in this Chamber how it is possible that the smart means, what would be in use, you are ruining and then, on the other hand, you are prepared to come there all the time to the driver's purse and thus to collect more taxes and to export the purchasing power of the citizens. Isn't there going to be a change?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u370	President! The increase in the taxation of petrol and diesel for this parliamentary term came into force in the summer. It is reasonably accurate as to what is the overall increase in costs. I checked it again today, among other things, with regard to the price of diesel. As far as this decade is concerned, we are at the same level of real diesel prices as we were, for example, in 2011. This creates strong impressions that it is going to rise, but I think that those of us who use the car with that gas pump will know what the price of diesel and petrol is. Is it something exceptionally high now?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u371	Mr President! It is a good thing that this has come to the fore, because in ten years the technology will develop so that the benefits of this paraffinic diesel will no longer be realised in the new vehicles, the new motor technology. This is also confirmed by the manufacturers of paraffinic diesel. But in addition to what each of us as consumers decides when refueling, including myself, the question is often asked as to why biodiesel could not be cheaper. I believe that this system-level solution, which has now been introduced in Finland and is being extended, is that each of us participates: when we have this 20% distribution obligation, i.e. when we mix with all fuel the bio-part and it is increased to 30%, hopefully more, then each of us will be able to participate in the fact that transport is less emission-free without actually seeing it. These are the most important ways of getting to these commons.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u372	Mr President! These reports from the Ministry of Transport and Communications made it clear that it is not just enough for us to change our fleet of cars or turn fuels into less emission, but we also need to reduce the supply of passenger car transport. Of course, reducing car traffic is the easiest place where there are other alternatives — public transport, walking and cycling — and that is why many have also experienced these tolls as a fairly fair way of reducing car traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u373	Mr President! Indeed, we have unique research material here that allows us to compare different methods that have been produced for months by the best researchers at Aalto University and VTT. There are dozens of different emission impacts here, and this comparison shows some surprising and interesting points. The introduction of congestion charges in the Helsinki region in practice would result in an extremely low emission reduction. This must now be taken into account when considering these different ways. We do not yet have a plan, we have not yet started the decision-making process in the government, but we have excellent material here, even internationally, on how we can make responsible decision-making. In addition to this, this government will increase the amount of money for walking and cycling, 30 million this year, to a very record amount, and we have, by the way, made the number one in Europe in terms of the amount of money we have increased for cycling thanks to the interest rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u374	And Mr Purra, and then we'll change the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u375	Mr President! Indeed, this project is in the government programme, it is pointless to deny it. This is where we heard earlier that the Greens, of course, are in favour of this project. The party feels that people should not live further away than a bicycle ride from the city. But the center, indeed — I think the center has a desire to hit the New Land whenever possible. Unfortunately, at the same time, they do not take measures to make life easier in remote areas. Indeed, it is a regressive charge that reduces the money that people have spent and, as has already been heard here, people rarely drive for pleasure, so this will have no effect on emissions either. But here we have heard both the center and the green line,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u376	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u377	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u378	Mr President! The taxes were mentioned, that's when I'll answer. As I said, taxation, including transport, is primarily intended to finance our welfare system. It's been collected for decades. Its importance is about EUR 8 billion in the state budget. I know that people do not like it, but it is about one and a half times as much as we receive government income tax, which is why it is so important, and that is why it should not be treated lightly either. But it has been done in a long-term way so that people must be able to move. In most of Finland there is no alternative to public transport. From this we will ensure that Finland will continue to be able to live and work everywhere, and it will also involve mobility that takes place outside the public transport sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u379	Now to the next topic, Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u380	Mr President! Time and again, you have to wonder about the government's corona communication. If SEO of Kortesjärvi asks what is the government's recommendation for a mask today or until when the restaurant will be open today, I don't think I'll get a sure answer, and that's no wonder. After all, from the news of recent days, it seems that you ministers are not even talking to each other. Minister of Economic Affairs Lintilä said on Tuesday that he or the whole Ministry of Employment and the Economy does not know what kind of interest rate measures Minister Kiuru is preparing. I'm surprised at this. Of course, you are busy, but somehow you would think that the message would go to the ministers, with so many secretaries and special assistants to support them, that the heads would come together. Maybe there's a few words you could exchange with each other at the same time. Government communication is the key. Oh, my God, it's cramping. So I ask the Prime Minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u381	Mr President! This was a very important question because the corona situation is serious and, unfortunately, there will be more cases of disease in Finland every day, and it is important that we stop seriously at this point. We are currently living in normal conditions, we are no longer in emergency conditions, and at present, within the framework of normal legislation, within the framework of the Act on communicable diseases, regions, municipalities, hospital districts and regional government agencies are those who are at the forefront of the fight against corona. Decisions are taken in our municipalities, decisions are taken in the medical districts and decisions are taken to push down these regional clusters of infections, and many regions have been exemplary. For example, Mikkeli, Kuhmo and now also Vaasa have taken prompt action and brought these local clusters under control. I hope that in Vaasa too this will succeed well in the actions that have been taken there. But we also have areas that have not acted so quickly, and it is clear that national policies are also needed to support this. That is why the Government, the Government, will hold a debate next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u382	And now, you representatives who want to ask questions on this subject, stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u383	Mr President! Inconsistent instructions are not about any small matter. What ministers or officials say in public is always taken seriously among people. Errors and contradictions in communication have caused damage, for example, in the event and tourism sectors. There have been unnecessary cancellations when instructions from the government or authorities have been incorrectly or incompletely reported. We are talking about the future of businesses and jobs for people. It is the government's job to do everything in its power to keep them now. One problem remains the pattern of restrictions. If infections have been detected in a nightclub, why is the same regulation applicable to food places? Mr President! I ask the government: what measures are you going to take to ensure that the regulation of the restaurant sector takes greater account of the purpose of the action in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u384	Mr President! We live, as I said earlier, under normal conditions, and the regions have the main responsibility for effectively printing down the corona. However, we also need national legal bases and national measures to support the regions. As far as restaurants are concerned, the Government is responsible for this whole package, and we have set out the guidelines that we need to close at one o'clock at the level of the whole nation, and then we need to close down at twelve o'clock and then in those areas where there is an acceleration or dispersal, i.e. the situation is rapidly becoming very bad, both the drinking hours and the opening hours need to be tightened further.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u387	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u388	Mr President! Brief question: who is in charge and who is in charge of the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u389	Mr President! As I described earlier — and I think this debate is very important because it is also good to open this whole carefully —
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u391	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u392	Mr President! Finland will survive this crisis well if this crisis is also managed as a whole. So whenever restrictions are imposed to improve health and combat the disease, the impact on employment and businesses will be assessed, will that not be the case? And this is also the government's own strategy, as the Constitutional Committee pointed out last spring. It has now become apparent this week that the government is preparing new restrictions. And is that not the case that the overall impact on employment and business should then be assessed? But it has now become clear that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is not at all involved in this. So the question is: will this be managed as a whole? In spring, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs pointed out that the STM, in its own silo, is preparing them without taking into account the impact on employment and business. And now, apparently, from the interview with Minister Lintilä, you can conclude that the same situation will continue. Prime Minister, will the situation be conducted as a whole? Why is the Ministry of Employment and the Economy outside?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u393	Mr President! Whenever it is a matter of extensive action, they are jointly negotiated by the government. This was done with regard to restaurant restrictions and will also be done next week with regard to the measures that need to be taken to control the epidemic. In this way, all ministers and ministries will be represented in the debate, and there will always be a need to carry out wider impact assessments, in what way these activities will have an impact on society more widely. So this is what we do together. As regards restaurant restrictions, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy worked closely together to ensure that this package was successfully implemented and all these effects were identified. With regard to the negotiations next week, this work will also be carried out between the ministries concerned. In practice, therefore, we are talking about assembly restrictions — I would like to emphasise that they are recommendations because action is being taken in the regions. In other words, we are talking about restrictions on assembly, public spaces, such as the use of distance learning opportunities in secondary and higher education, the recommendation on distance work,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u394	Mr President! If I remember correctly, the journalists then asked if you knew what was being prepared at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and I replied that I do not know.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u395	Mr President! In the spring, you said that there was no need for masks in Finland. Now we're all wearing masks. Since March, there has been talk of another wave coming at some point. Well, first you guys had summer vacations, then I was busy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u396	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u397	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u398	Mr President! Finland has done well in dealing with the corona crisis compared to many other countries. As far as the disease is concerned, and as far as the economy is concerned, we have survived with a smaller blow than other countries, so it is worth acknowledging that things have been done right in this country. Sometimes when you listen to criticism in this Chamber — which I think is necessary because the situation is serious and it is good to have this debate very directly — you get the feeling that everything is wrong here. Yes, Finland has as a general rule done well, and the regions in Finland have worked well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u399	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u400	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u401	Mr President! In the spring, when the corona crisis was really bad, the Government took over this state-responsible responsibility in accordance with the will expressed by Parliament. In exceptional circumstances, the preparedness laws were introduced, and in this respect leadership came directly from the measures, directly from the parliamentary authority, to the government. At the moment we are living in normal conditions, and that means that we have five types of actors to implement the Act on communicable diseases today. It is quite right to say that, when regional measures are required, they are different. They are different across Finland, and that is why we have to endure the fact that the implementation of this Act on communicable diseases in the crisis is different depending on the situation in the region. And I can tell you that I would very much like us to have more restraint in doing everything possible in the regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u402	Mr President! Already in January, the Finns of Finland called for urgent information and a rapid response. At that time, Minister, you replied that panic should not be fomented. I think it would be worth it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u403	Mr President! There must always be room for improvement in communication. I'm sure it's true. I'm not going to deny it. But it is also good to note that many of these issues — although they seem to be very simple to us here in the debate — I can say when the government has been sitting on these issues for hours, that many of these issues are surprisingly complex. Whether they are questions relating to travel restrictions or questions relating to many other matters, it must also be said out loud that these issues are not simple. When we restrict the fundamental rights of people, when we impose restrictive measures that are not in normal circumstances — we are no longer in exceptional circumstances, we are now acting with the powers of normal legislation, but we are still experiencing a deep crisis — it must also be said that this whole is extremely challenging and very difficult. There is certainly room for improvement in communication, and I can openly acknowledge that. But it is also good to note that these things are not always very simple. They're tricky. This situation as a whole is challenging, and this is what we are struggling with every day.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u404	Mr President! Many times during this corona crisis I have hoped that all Members of Parliament would read our excellent infectious disease law. There are very clear tasks for five different authorities: the municipality, the hospital district, the regional government authority, the health welfare institution THL and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. And within this framework we are very well able to manage and manage this situation, which — note. — changes on a weekly basis. In the last two weeks, there have been 1890 infections, less than a hundred in the previous two weeks. It is natural that in such a situation we should react quickly, and then the whole Government will be required when new laws or budgetary solutions are introduced, all of which have been presented to us in the right order. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: at what point will the entire Government next consider the necessary laws and budgetary solutions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u405	Mr President! Last today, the entire Government has received information on the most up-to-date situation during its session. We are constantly going through this situation because, as Mr Lindén said, the situation is changing and, unfortunately, in a worrying direction. Next week I have invited all the parliamentary parties, i.e. the opposition parties, to discuss the whole issue of the Act on communicable diseases, which has been prepared all summer and all autumn, and now we are bringing this to Parliament. I have invited all the parties to this debate because it is a big whole and I think it is important that this is the subject of a broad parliamentary debate, that we seek cooperation between all the parties, because this challenge is common to all of us, and I want to believe that, on this issue, we are all on the people's side and that we want to contain the disease with all possible measures. In addition, next week the government will also discuss this whole and the recommendations that need to be made to the regions so that the disease situation can be contained everywhere and the spread of the disease.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u406	Mr President! In the spring, the corona surprised us all. That's when they had to react. Now the corona virus situation is deteriorating rapidly. It can no longer come as a surprise to the government. You have now announced that the STM has begun to prepare for action. The question arises as to what has been done for the past six months if we have not already prepared for different options by the whole government in cooperation so that, now that these means are needed, they would already be ready and prepared. It seems that the government broke the previous restrictions and took a summer vacation and again the government has been surprised. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: could you reconsider the idea of setting up the corona fist proposed by President Niinistö? A fist of experts
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u407	Mr President! I can assure you that the government has not been on vacation in the summer. We haven't had much vacations. We've been working all summer. We have managed this summer's disease situation in accordance with the government's hybrid strategy. We have been able to dismantle the restrictive measures while at the same time ensuring that the disease situation has remained under control, as in the summer it has remained under excellent control. At the beginning of autumn, the government has updated its strategy and made clear plans on how to proceed at any stage. There is no need to introduce extensive restrictive measures at the base stage, to introduce restrictive measures at the accelerated stage, but to a very large extent can be applied at regional level, and then at the spread stage, in particular:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u408	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u409	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u410	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u411	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u412	Mr President! Here is a good example of whether we have all understood how serious the situation is in Finland. There are nearly 300 infections, currently the incidence is fluttering
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u413	Mr President! In the spring, when the disease started to progress, ministers said that the use of the mask was not necessary and that there was no reason to go along with such an overreaction. The Government Programme states that Finland is governed by information. I ask the Minister: what has changed with the information that changed the situation to the fact that, for example, we all have masks here in the Chamber? WHO recommended the use of masks in the spring. Many other countries made a strong recommendation or even an order to wear masks, and we were told that wearing masks could even be harmful. What is the changed research data, or was it a question of telling us that the use of the mask was not necessary because the background was that masks were not available? I dare say that the people can endure the truth, but they cannot stand to change the truth.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u414	Mr President! The government has never said that masks must not be worn. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u415	The debate on this subject will continue at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u416	Let's move on to the next item. Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u417	Mr President! Prime Minister, it has become known to Parliament that there is an informal network of rainbow cooperation within the Government. The network is coordinated by the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. There are six ministers involved. It seems to have a direct impact on the legislative projects promoted by the government and their preparation, although its composition and functioning are not known on the Government's website.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u418	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u419	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u420	Prime Minister Marin and then Minister Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u421	Mr President! As far as I know, Parliament also has a rainbow network,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u422	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u423	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u424	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u425	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u426	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen has also asked a written question on this same issue, and I have answered this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u427	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u428	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u429	The real situation is that I have received two replies from the Minister. [Left: Have you read?]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u430	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u431	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u432	It's a minute full, on an equal basis. — Prime Minister Marin, and then to the next item.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u433	Mr President! You spoke in your recent question about the Cabal,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u434	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u435	Mr President! The problem of interest rate epidemics has a wide range of side effects that are equally important to tackle. One such side effect is that people’s access to treatment has been significantly prolonged. Now that the situation of the corona epidemic is again more difficult, it seems unlikely that the queues will be shortened by themselves. It is therefore important that existing resources are used sensibly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u436	Mr President! Yes, the interest rate has also led to an increase in the service debt and care debt, and that has given the Government broad support to the fact that we in society will also be able to reduce this maintenance and service debt in the coming two-year period. We are in the process of working out a systematic way, which is why, in the run-up to multi-disciplinaryism, we can together support people's access to treatment and are also being treated. The challenges lie not only in the fact that the waiting lists for special care are lagging behind, but also in the fact that, at the basic level, people have not even been able to get the general practitioner to take care of themselves or any other effort. In the social field, too, the challenges of child protection are already considerable. In that regard, it should be noted that the basic level must also:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u437	Next topic. Left Alliance, Congressman Kautto.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u438	Mr President! For decades, working conditions have been agreed on in Finland at common tables. This has created stability, prosperity and growth, which has benefited both employees and employers. The decision of the forest industry to withdraw from collective bargaining is a step towards a return to dominance. A general collective bargaining system has been used to agree on matters that are governed by law in many other countries. Finnish labour law does not lay down minimum wages or many other essential conditions for safeguarding the status of workers. This desire to push down organised workers requires action from trade union movements as well as from us legislators. My question to the government is: what measures are you going to take to safeguard workers' rights if the worrying line opened up by the forest industry spreads to other parts of the world of work?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-08-ps-126.u439	Mr President! The forest industry is now separated from this, and in a free society this can be done. In other words, the social partners themselves decide how they organise themselves and how they organise themselves. Now, in practice, in this situation, the wage and salary earners must find that partner, and in that case it is likely to be a company level, i.e. these agreements will be negotiated with the companies. At the moment we have existing collective agreements, so there is no rush in it, but this is what the labour market is going through. And what I think is essential is that we continue to have a society of reconciliation, even if the forms change. I hope that the parties will also find procedures for the long-term development of working life.
