ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-131.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 8/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-131.u2	Mr President! Minister! The proposal proposes to provide for a temporary amendment of the enforcement cycle. The law would be in line with the law on the temporary modification of the enforcement cycle, which entered into force at the beginning of May and is due to expire after two weeks, i.e. on the last day of October. The provisional provisions currently under discussion, which provide for the reduction, limitation and suspension of enforcement of the enforcement procedure in the wake of the covid-19 epidemic, would be in force until the end of April next year, i.e. the provisions of the current enforcement cycle would be extended by six months. The law is intended to enter into force on 1 November of this year. The content of the new interim law corresponds to the content of the provisional law currently in force. The continuation of the period of validity is intended to ensure the economic survival of citizens and businesses from the difficulties caused by the covid-19 epidemic. On the basis of a report presented and received by the Board of Directors, the Legal Committee considers the proposal to be necessary and appropriate and supports the adoption of the draft law contained in the proposal by means of technical typographical errors. The committee had no other amendments or observations to make. According to the survey, efforts have also been made in other countries to mitigate the economic impact of the corona virus epidemic. Each country has adapted the measures and amendments to the law to fit its own legislation and insolvency system. The committee heard experts — although there was an urgent timetable, we wanted to work carefully — and there was general support for this extension. Attention was paid to the financial problems and difficulties faced by citizens and businesses and to the fact that they are reflected in the financial and debt counselling and enforcement measures with some delay. For example, in financial and debt counselling, and The citizens and their contacts with the Foundation’s services, caused by the corona epidemic, did not start to appear until the end of the summer. Many companies and industries are also still correcting their economic situation after the first wave of the epidemic, and the needs are expected to continue for a long time next year. It is also considered that the further worsening of the epidemic is still in favour of the extension of the provisional law. On the other hand, there was also opposition. It was considered problematic that such temporary laws should be regulated and extended, even though the law is limited in time and was therefore initially constitutionally acceptable. The consultation has also highlighted the fact that: Finland is no longer in exceptional circumstances and it is not known that the effects of the crisis will be crisis-like to the present. It has also been considered problematic that there is not even a greater knowledge of the current existence of the crisis. The extension of provisional laws without sufficient justification has also been considered to have the potential to lead to the establishment of temporary regulation in a new way. When examining the proposal, the Committee on Legal Affairs has assessed whether there are grounds for extending the provisional law for a period of six months. The committee has also asked the constitutional authority for an assessment as to whether there is constitutional ambiguity in the proposal and whether the Committee on Legal Affairs should therefore ask for the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. According to the constitutional expert, the draft law contained in the government proposal before us does not contain any constitutionally problematic provisions which would have required the Legal Committee to seek the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. An expert in constitutional law has assessed the objective of the proposed regulation to ensure the financial survival of citizens and businesses from the difficulties caused by the covid-19 epidemic and has considered them acceptable to the fundamental rights system in such a way as to limit to some extent the protection of the creditor’s assets. For example, the proposed regulation will safeguard the ability of the debtor to continue his business and the ability of the debtor to cope with temporary difficulties in general in a situation where the deterioration of the financial position of the debtor has been the result of an epidemic of interest rates and the resulting exceptional circumstances. According to the constitutional expert, it is also important from the point of view of the proportionality of the restriction that regulation does not, in itself, interfere with the legal status of the creditor and the debtor, but is merely a matter of reconciling the regulation of the enforcement of the creditor’s rights and the current regulation on it in an exceptional economic situation caused by the corona virus epidemic. The committee has therefore considered that the extension of the temporary law is not disproportionate to creditors. Having assessed the proposal as a whole, the Committee on Legal Affairs considered that an extension of the provisional law for a further period of six months is justified and necessary and limited to what is necessary in time. For the sake of clarity, the committee has stated in its report that the reduction and restriction of the enforcement procedure provided for by the temporary law requires a criterion resulting from the covid-19 epidemic. Consequently, if the financial consequences of the epidemic end earlier or if the debtor’s payment difficulties are not due to the epidemic, the situation of application of the provisional law will not arise, except for the extended payment period. The duration and extent of the Covid-19 epidemic and its economic impact on citizens and businesses cannot be accurately predicted at the moment. However, if the situation persists, it is important to assess in good time what means are available to facilitate the situation of enforcement debtors. The consultation also highlighted the impact of the covid-19 epidemic on the enforcement operation and has so far been relatively mild. In the light of the information received, resource needs are likely to increase, so the committee considers it necessary to monitor the situation of the enforcement agency's resources closely and to ensure adequate resources. The committee's proposal for a decision is that Parliament approve the bill contained in the Government proposal 157/2020, and the committee's amendment is a correction of a typographical error with regard to the entry into force provision. The committee's report is unanimous. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-131.u3	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-131.u4	Mr President, värderade talman! In the spring, the bankruptcy law was temporarily amended to remove the presumption of insolvency in the event of a default call for payment threatened by bankruptcy from the beginning of May to the end of October. Now we propose extending the validity of the law until the end of January. The impact of the law has been significant, since the number of bankruptcies has fallen sharply since the entry into force of the law, and this is a very good thing. In practice, creditors have not filed for bankruptcy in a situation where the law applies. At the same time, public operators, such as the Tax Administration, have also decided not to go bankrupt in this situation. This too is and will be important. However, the plight of companies has not ended. Coronavirus pandemic affects companies in different sectors differently. Many companies and industries continue to adjust their financial situation after the first wave of coronavirus pandemic. Some of the companies got into payment difficulties right at the start of the crisis, some of them only now in the autumn. The second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has reached Finland, and new restrictive measures have to be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-131.u5	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. The timetable is tight: the Committee on Legal Affairs will start hearings on this matter tomorrow morning. It was good to hear about these plans for the future, because in that way this is a rather challenging law to move forward in this way. Of course, now that this presumption is gone, it has made it more difficult for creditors to apply for bankruptcy when they always have to show something. However, the assumption is that there is already a presumption that the conditions for bankruptcy can be met. So we'll try to deal with this quickly. And thank you, Minister.
