ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u1	Unlike the preliminary data, the timetables for today's plenary session are slightly different. We will start with an additional budget proposal, which will be scheduled for an hour and a half, but instead there will be no time limit for the next item, the restaurant law, and the debate will take place once and for all, and then we will return to the additional budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u2	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 1.5 hours will be reserved for the referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u3	Mr President! In the light of the significant economic shock caused by the Korona virus, the government is, exceptionally, already proposing a third amending budget to Parliament at this stage of the year. The increase in appropriations in the third draft amending budget for the year is EUR 832 million and the increase in the need for net borrowing by the State is the same. The government's net borrowing is estimated at EUR 13.5 billion at this stage, but unfortunately this figure will increase further as a result of interest rate measures. An increase of EUR 700 million is proposed in the acquisition of shares in state ownership steering. The increase results from the financing of share subscriptions where the state subscribes to shares in the share issue organised by Finnair. If necessary, the State may also participate in other recapitalisation schemes. The planned share issue and other possible capitalisation solutions are necessary to strengthen the company’s equity and financial position. Finnair is a strategic interest company for the state. International air connections are essential for Finland and the importance of the company for the Finnish economy is great. For example, from the point of view of tourism, air links are essential. Good connections are also key to the operating environment of the Finnish export industry, and domestic air routes also play an important role in regional accessibility. An appropriation of EUR 123 million is proposed to support restaurant entrepreneurs to compensate for restrictions on restaurant activities and to support re-employment. The amount to be credited shall be made up of a cutter related to the volume of sales and shall not exceed EUR 500000. Thus, large operators in the sector receive relatively less than small operators. The aim is to ensure that even large operators do not get excessively high credits. Aid for reemployment shall be paid at EUR 1000 per employed person. The aid shall be paid for an employee to whom the undertaking pays a salary of at least EUR 2500 for the three months following the end of the limitation obligation. In addition, it is proposed to increase the mandate of the Academy of Finland by EUR 10 million for 2020 due to support for the national covid-19 vaccine and drug development research and the study on the effectiveness, safety and effectiveness of new coronavirus vaccines and medicines. An amount of EUR 6 million is proposed for expenditure on the preparation, procurement, commissioning and maintenance of the Corona virus tracking application and for state grants. Mr President! In addition to the increase in appropriations, the draft amending budget proposes an increase in state guarantees. As a result of the interest-bearing crisis, unemployment security expenditure under the responsibility of the Employment Fund will increase significantly. The Fund needs debt financing to cover the deficit and ensure liquidity. In order to ensure access to finance, it is proposed to grant a State guarantee of EUR 800 million for capital. The amending budget proposes that the Government may grant a State guarantee of up to EUR 432 million to cover loans under the temporary support instrument SURE to mitigate the risk of unemployment resulting from a European emergency. In addition, it is proposed to authorise the Government to grant a State guarantee of up to EUR 372 million to the European Investment Bank in the event of losses arising from the Pan-European EU Covid-19 Guarantee Fund. SURE is a temporary support instrument aimed at mitigating the employment-related effects of the interest rate. It would serve as a loan facility to cover Member States' unemployment expenditure, which grew suddenly and strongly as a result of the interest rate. The increase in expenditure should relate mainly to costs arising directly from the arrangements for reduced working hours and similar means made directly due to the interest rate. The loan facility is based on the flexibility of the EU budget and Member States' guarantees. In Finland, both the Government and the Parliament have required that the overall responsibility for SURE is clearly, accurately and unambiguously limited. The guarantee liability is defined in the guarantee agreement in euro. Of course, the fact that someone or some Member States will not be able to pay off their loans and guarantees will have to be used is also possible but extremely unlikely. This would require an EU Member State to declare itself insolvent. The Fund set up within the framework of the European Investment Bank is about the possibility for the European Investment Bank, with the support of a temporary guarantee fund, to grant guarantees to banks and national specialised financial institutions in order to open up and increase their lending to actors in the real economy, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. It has been estimated that Finnish companies are in a good position to benefit from this fund. The burden-sharing between Member States is limited at most to the share of each Member State in the Fund itself. The guarantee is a separate guarantee of a self-debted nature, not a solidarity guarantee. This instrument is also temporary in nature and the aid is limited to the exceptional situation resulting from the interest rate. There are two things that need to be distinguished in this debate. It is clear that not all EU countries have managed their economies as well as others before the crisis, nor must they be too naive to have done enough to get their economies in order. But the crisis caused by the corona epidemic has come to Europe regardless of the economic policies of the Member States. It calls for exceptional measures, although it also requires us to be careful not to try to water down the responsibility of the Member States for the proper management of their own economic policies on the pretext of the corona crisis. The Commission is preparing a proposal for the financial framework and the new recovery fund, and this will be possible next week. Mr President! Here's the introduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u4	Mr President! This third amending budget could be described as an urgent amending budget, i.e. an increase in appropriations and also an increase in the guarantee powers which must be completed immediately for timescale reasons. As far as the increase in appropriations is concerned, it could be said in such general terms that the Christian Democrats are in favour of them, but in some respects they are inadequate. We have considered that support for nutritious entrepreneurs, for example, by 123 million, is not sufficient, given the high employment potential of the sector and, at the moment, also the high risk that these layoffs will also become redundancies in that sector. In that sense, the Christian Democrats are putting forward a larger budget of 250 million, and also some changes to the terms of that support and also to take account of companies such as catering services and seasonal restaurants that are not taken into account here, but then more of this in the government proposal's own paragraph. EUR 6 million for the social e-service system — of which I would like to ask the Minister for Finance what these estimates are based on. I understand that the establishment of such a system requires much greater financial investment, so where is this 6 million figure found? Raising the research powers of the Academy of Finland — of course to be welcomed. At that point, the Christian Democrats would also like to remind you of the possibility of this own production of vaccines and of the fact that there should also be an increase in research appropriations. Finally, I would like to highlight these EU guarantees. It must now be taken into account that, overall, the interest rate crisis increases the credit liability events of the Finnish state strongly. In Finland, our stock of state guarantees is clearly the largest share of GDP in the EU countries. In its report, the Economic Policy Evaluation Council has pointed out that the high level of guarantees poses a risk to central government finances. It must now be pointed out, as the Ministry of Finance's own documents have said, that these granting of EU guarantee powers is a matter of high-risk guarantees and also of the very possibility of these guarantees being paid out at some point in time. In this respect, it would be important to take into account what the Constitutional Committee has pointed out that these arrangements relating to the interest rate crisis can at least be regarded as constitutional without jeopardising the state economy if we are not clearly on the map of the total amount of these responsibilities. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also pointed out that this guarantee fund:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u5	Mr President! This third additional budget for the year focuses in particular on facilitating the financial situation of companies and the costs of managing and combating corona virus. As we know, the corona virus epidemic has put our country's economy on the line, and it also treats companies differently. For example, tourism has been particularly hard hit, which has almost completely stopped while people stay at home. Nor can it be expected that people will put aside their money for tourism to wait for better times. Travel money is now being used to repair the personal economy weakened by the corona. Finland's service and tourism industries have grown significantly in recent years, and tourism to Finland has flourished. Finnair is a strategic interest company for the state. International air connections are essential for Finland, and Finnair is of great importance to the Finnish economy. In this context, the capitalisation of Finnair by the State is well-founded. As a result of the interest rate crisis and the associated restrictions, the number of layoffs and layoffs has increased sharply. This increases significantly Unemployment security expenditure under the responsibility of the Employment Fund. The result of the Employment Fund is estimated to fall into deficit in 2020. Here again, the government is on the right track in this amending budget. Mr President! We know that the sale of restaurants has collapsed and that the workers have been largely laid off. At the same time, however, rents and other expenses must be covered. The amending budget therefore proposes a budget of EUR 123 million to support food service entrepreneurs to compensate for restrictions on the activities of restaurants and to support re-employment. The proposal is good and well-founded in this regard. On the other hand, the proposal to make up for the restrictions is somewhat problematic. It proposes that the compensation be paid in proportion to the situation in January and February 2020. The sales of restaurants are highly seasonally dependent, so perhaps it would be better to compare the situation to the same time one year ago. In addition, it may be appropriate for Parliament to do some exercise on this issue anyway. President! But we're still talking about restaurants.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u6	Mr President! Finland’s position vis-à-vis East Asia is favourable from the point of view of air traffic, and flight times to China, Japan and South Korea, for example, are the shortest in the European Union. Securing Finnair's position in air transport between Europe and Asia is very important, as is ensuring smooth air connections, especially across Europe. The survival of Finnair from the corona crisis is of paramount importance, and it is clear that the proposal to safeguard Finnair's finances and ensure the continuity of the company's operations will receive parliamentary support. The company’s strategic importance for the Finnish economy is enormous, as it secures smooth air connections away from Finland and within Finland. Mr President! The restaurant sector is one of the main sufferers of the corona crisis, as business is currently limited to selling out. The aid package is therefore absolutely necessary and must be as fair as possible. The restaurant sector is a big employer, so the smoothest recovery in the sector is our common interest. There is also a real need for support for re-employment. I will come back to this point when the proposal on restaurant support is set out in the next item in the referral debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u7	Mr President! The Coalition Party has today submitted two amending budget initiatives. I'll be back in a minute. But we support these measures, such as immediate assistance to resolve the situation in Finnair that the Government is proposing, as well as state guarantees through the Employment Fund, the EU's SURE unemployment system and the EU Covid-19 Guarantee Fund. We have left a lot of government records in them, and we hope that the government will take them into account. Together, we're the best way out of this. In the spirit of a close Europe day, I myself am convinced that Europe is stronger together than one by one. ‘The main thing is to fulfil its obligations and to do work, A bad day goes by just like a good day,” J.V. Snellman said in his day, and this is certainly good advice and learned to work hard to overcome this corona crisis. For the Academy's research on vaccines and drugs, the Coalition Party will present a little more money in relation to that government base proposal, so that that mandate would reach 20 million, and we are also supporting the allocation for the covid-19 tracking programme. Our biggest duubios are targeting this restaurant support, and now that it has already been severely criticised in the centre of the Chamber today, we wonder why the government itself has not corrected it when it comes to bringing it here. But the coalition is ready to help: together we will make a package that will save the restaurants and their tens of thousands of workers over this crisis. The coalition requires that the restaurant subsidy be increased to EUR 300 million. It is a reasonable compensation for two months for an industry that has been prescribed by law to be kept. Exceptionally, their property protection and freedom to conduct a business have been restricted. Furthermore, the Coalition Party does not accept that Business Finland's or Ely's development project funds could be used to reduce the support required by the Constitutional Committee for lost turnover. This connection must be dismantled in Parliament. The comparison period must also be someone other than the quietest months of the year in restaurants in January and February. We have suggested that companies, restaurants, could choose from three different options: the previous financial year, six months before the corona crisis or April and May from the previous year. And in the model of the convention, this support for restaurants would also be simpler, general support — fast, fair, non-distorting and not tied to staff. That would be fair to these people. Mr President! Finally, the Coalition Party is also ready to help the restaurant sector more quickly beyond this crisis. We are prepared to assess regionally already at this stage, for example, the opening of smaller cafés and small cafés, as the Constitutional Committee already required in Parliament. They could well be opened at this stage, especially in municipalities and regions where the corona virus has hardly introduced itself. The Coalition Party has also proposed allowing the sale of wines to restaurants. Today, we have read that Alko seems to be the only industry that basks. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u8	Mr President! One of the most critical ways of solving the corona crisis is to find a viable and safe vaccine. Currently, there is no vaccine or effective medical treatment available for corona, but there is a need for both national and international research, development and cooperation in the development of the vaccine and, of course, in the development of medical treatment. The draft resolution therefore proposes an increase in the total funding for the development of the vaccine to EUR 20 million. The authority of the Academy of Finland has been increased here, but we challenge to double this addition. The funding of the Academy of Finland focuses on the most competitive top research, the evaluation criteria of which highlight extensive peer reviews and the quality of research work, and its support under these prevailing conditions is of paramount importance. In the future, however, I would like to point out that, while I am sure that this vaccine research will also have to be continued, future draft amending budgets would also allow this research funding to be allocated directly to university budgets, thus ensuring continuity of research projects and reducing bureaucracy and heavy searches involving extra costs. I would also like to draw attention to the need for future funding not only for this pharmaceutical and vaccine research but also for the vaccines themselves. In order to overcome the interest rate, the infection tracking application is also critically important and we warmly encourage the EUR 6 million proposed to be added to it. That's a great thing about this show. The Coalition Party strongly supports support for restaurants and cafes, but the proposal submitted to Parliament, EUR 123 million, is inadequate. It is unfortunately late and it is also slow, complex and even distorting competition. The Coalition Party proposes a better adaptation of the aid model to the situation of restaurants and an increase in total aid to EUR 300 million. Mr President! Finally, a few more aspects of the cities. The bailout package for municipalities is not coming until the next draft amending budget, but right now, for example, there are negotiations on land use, housing and transport agreements in large urban areas. Many of these projects are currently in a waiting state in urban areas until the commitment of the state is confirmed. When the tools for recovery are sought to emerge from the corona crisis, these MAL projects would find concrete proposals quite directly, and I hope that they will be taken up in the next preparation. They serve sustainable growth in urban areas, but they must not forget national and international accessibility by road, rail and air. Now that we are still talking about the importance of air connections in connection with this capitalisation point at Finnair, I hope that in this context other airports and their importance for the regional economy will be seen as well as Helsinki Airport. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u9	Mr President! The crisis must not be brought down to the weaker, but it can be overcome together and united. At the same time, it is right to support both the maintenance of jobs by preventing bankruptcies in healthy businesses and those who become unemployed and those who are in poor situations. My Minister’s Kulmun and Lintilä’s Group of Economists left their report, whose big line supports both the Government’s programme and the selected corona line in a very fine way. The economy must now be kept in line feeding, after which a recovery of several billions is needed to avoid being stuck in a recession that would be costly for both people's well-being and the economy. In the future, Finland will also have to carry out structural reforms; for example, training efforts in the Greens report are absolutely necessary if we are to: Finland will succeed in the future. On the other hand, we need more tax money, which must be collected, as the report points out, with taxes that are minimally detrimental to the economy, and the best example of such necessary restructuring is the abolition of tax subsidies for the owners of the wealthiest non-listed companies. The cuts would benefit the economy and, as the report also states, they should not be done this year or next. Time will tell whether an adjustment can be considered for 2023, as estimated by economists. Now, however, we must all breathe in common coal and deal with the acute crisis as well as possible. It is quite irresponsible that the right-wing opposition has been called for in public for cutting lists and fomented uncertainty in the midst of a crisis. That way would drive people into distress, companies into bankruptcy, and the economy into a downward spiral. Mr President! I demand in this Chamber in March that any subsidies from Finnair should be made by increasing taxpayers' ownership by means of a market-based investment rather than free of charge, and it is excellent that the government has decided to do just that in this amending budget. I hope that in the future this will be the case for all the larger companies: not to sow taxpayers' money for owners, but to support the maintenance of jobs and, at the same time, to increase national wealth by reducing net debt. Of course, for small companies, support schemes must be different, and I will come back to that myself in the next paragraph for restaurants. Of course, there too, it is essential to support work beyond the crisis. While supporting businesses, we should also support people on low incomes by making, for example, a temporary increase in income support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u10	Mr President! The environment and social justice must be taken into account in all reconstruction activities. It is to be welcomed that the State is seeking to guarantee the operating conditions of the state company Finnair by means of a support package. By supporting Finnair, we maintain connections from Finland to the world, which is important especially for the Finnish tourism and business sector. However, it is unacceptable that no climate action is required from the company in exchange for Finnair’s support. In a recent international study, over 200 top economists listed support for airlines without climate conditions as a very poor stimulus for climate and long-term economic impacts. This is exactly what Finland is now doing with Finnair. Mr President! The environmental crisis has not disappeared with the corona. Therefore, the support measures now being taken must not lead to a return to old unsustainable policies, but must reform society in such a way that it is also able to respond to other crises, such as global warming. This also applies to the conditions of support for air transport. In the case of public money in particular, it is our duty to consider what action is necessary and not necessary for both the interest rate and the climate crisis. In France, for example, the Air France aid package has been proposed as a condition for reducing domestic flights. The same procedure would be possible in Finland, however, ensuring that critical domestic connections are secured. It is questionable that Finnair maintains domestic flights on routes where the distance by train is reasonable. For example, according to a study conducted at the University of Jyväskylä last year, flights of 400 kilometres or less than an hour would be justified and could be replaced by other forms of travel. The differences between emissions from different modes of transport were up to 17 times higher. Mr President! Last week in Parliament, I submitted a measure initiative to commit Finnair's support to climate action. I very much hope that this can at least be taken into account in future support measures. Despite its gravity, the interest crisis is also an opportunity for mankind to build a different world. One step in the new direction is that we political decision-makers are creating structures that encourage major emitters to take responsibility for them instead of taking responsibility for individual citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u11	Mr President! In this time of crisis, it has proved effective to take action to sustain the economy against the interest rate as quickly as possible and to constantly develop a line to tackle both the disease and the economic crisis, and that is important to be able to take the necessary action quickly. At the same time, we must adhere to the fundamental principles that Finland is also known for. No one must be left alone in the midst of this disease, but we must ensure that everyone gets help and support in this crisis, and we must also look after employment and, therefore, the foundations of the welfare state. At the same time, it is good to recognise that this disease will not be tackled alone and that the economy will not be revived unless, in particular, the European region, but also the world as a whole, is able to rise. As a small export-driven open economy, it is precisely the interdependence of the economy that is essential for us to bear in mind. In practice, this has been emphasised by all the economists heard by the Committee on Finance. 60% of Finland's exports are to the EU, so EU and EU action in particular play a major role in the recovery. And that is why the type of activity that protects jobs and businesses in the EU is also in Finland's interest. That is why these contributions to EU action in the draft amending budget are very much to be welcomed, since it is precisely these measures that are necessary to enable Finland's exports to recover and thus Finland's economy to recover. At the same time, of course, we must look forward to our EU policy, as well as to our domestic recovery strategy. We are now taking the large-scale measures to save as many jobs as possible, but when we look at this for a few years now, it is essential to turn to the path of green recovery, that is to say to support jobs and businesses that continue to operate on a sustainable basis in the future, and to pursue tax reforms that tax environmentally harmful activities — often found to be the least harmful way to other economic activities — to generate more tax revenue. And we need more tax revenue in the longer term, because otherwise we will not make it out of this government deficit. At the same time, it is of course essential to invest in research and training. We are now investing particularly in the fight against the corona. There was concern about how to take care of the activities of our schools, educational institutions and research institutes in general. This is what the government has done: basic funding for universities has been increased by 60 million. This has now become quite unpredictable because it has now been recognised that, when there has been insufficient resources in the field of epidemiology in Finland and elsewhere in the world in recent years, it is now evident that we do not have all the research that could have been, which would have been a huge help in dealing with this disease. So now that we are turning to a sustainable path, we are investing in research, and we can best ensure that when the next crisis comes, we know more about what is at stake and we also know better how to deal with the crisis most quickly. It is therefore important to ensure that research and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u12	Mr President! As a result of the epidemic, general economic activity is deteriorating, and that is why, of course, the government has brought us these amending budgets. One line, which is quite justified in its main points, is that until the end of July the events of more than 500 people will have to be cancelled, and this policy will of course have a significant impact on summer events and festivals. In addition to social and communality, culture also has a great deal of impact on the economy, small-scale entrepreneurship, community, well-being, freelancer activities and so on. In the second amending budget, the government allocated some EUR 40 million to support culture, and there was money for cultural professionals, artists and cultural events — thank you very much. However, the aid only went up to 31 May, and in this context the Ministry of Education and Culture has launched a search, but it really does not help for summer events. In its report on the second amending budget, the Committee on Finance said that ‘it is important to monitor the need foraid to provide additional resources in the event of an epidemic’. Well, now they have to be withdrawn, and with regard to this report by the Committee on Finance, I expected that this third amending budget would have brought up this festival issue, but it has not yet come to that, and I hope it will be included in the fourth. These festivals would like to get over this valley of death, hoping that their eyes would reach the next year. Another issue which does not in itself need money concerns, for example, the League of Veikkaus and Superpes: when we have this 500-person entry until the end of July, I would like the government to be more specific about this Government's decision in principle. Is it 500 strict limits, or is there a situation-specific consideration? For example, if you take a football game that is played in Ratina and there are 17,000 seats in the stands, then of course the situation is different from a small stadium with 3,000 seats — in the same way we have different speed limits for road traffic due to safety on small roads and large roads. And here I would like a case-by-case consideration to be made if there is a large stadium, outside, many spectators, different entrances, if that is possible with regard to safety. Security is, of course, also a priority for the sports community.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u13	Mr President! As several colleagues have already pointed out, this crisis has affected businesses in the service sector in particular in the early stages, many of which are currently in a very difficult situation. In particular, the restaurant sector has emerged here, where the turnover of many companies has completely collapsed. At present thousands of businesses and tens of thousands of people working in these companies are at risk, and it is therefore important that they are helped now and here so that as many of these companies as possible can overcome this acute crisis. Mr. Speaker! At the end of March, we discussed the legislation on the closing of restaurants in this Chamber and then we took this decision to close down restaurants in this exceptional situation. In this context, we also unanimously adopted a statement which has obliged the government to take prompt action to support the livelihood of restaurant entrepreneurs in this exceptional situation. Similarly, in its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered it necessary to provide both a reasonable compensation for the losses caused by the ban and a mitigating mechanism for traders. Mr. Speaker! Now the fundamental question is: is this government's proposal in line with what Parliament, this Chamber, has demanded of the government? He's not answering. This government model cannot be regarded as a reasonable compensation for companies whose turnover has completely collapsed. This support of EUR 123 million, with this kind of run-off, which has already been mentioned in this debate, is certainly not what Parliament has required of its government, and it is therefore important that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy now has to move in practice, to do a great deal of work in order to put this proposal in order to move forward with it. Mr. Speaker! So, as Mr Heinonen has pointed out, we have indeed proposed this increase in restaurant support to EUR 300 million. We have also pointed out that if an entrepreneur has applied for support from the Ely Centre or Business Finland, these subsidies must not affect the possible support for a restaurant provided by this restaurant company. It is also absurd that the reference period for this aid is the beginning of the year, which is once again the quietest time in the restaurant's business. Mr. Speaker! All these things must now be corrected when this issue is being dealt with in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u14	Mr President! In addition to the health crisis, interest has caused an acute shock to the economy. It is now imperative that we avoid the mistakes of the '90s recession. Jobs must be defended with determination. The amending budget before us today proposes € 123 million in support for restaurants. The loss of income resulting from the closure decision will be compensated and firms in the sector will be encouraged to employ. Parliament will examine how the aid would be targeted as fairly and as appropriately as possible. For example, for restaurants that have already applied for development aid, it must be ensured that they are not placed in a more difficult position than others. At the same time as companies are supported, we must also remember the livelihood of people who do not have a job. The Left Alliance is pleased that it was decided to increase the protective part of unemployment benefit to EUR 500. This will make it easier for an unemployed person to take up a job without a loss of income. A temporary increase in income support would also ensure that the lowest incomes would survive in the midst of the crisis. Mr President! Much has been said in recent days about how the Finnish economy should be strengthened in the long term. It has been a pity to see how enthusiasticly the opposition has left its ranks to stir up uncertainty and talk about cuts. It is now up to us to ensure people’s trust in society by taking care of people’s well-being and livelihoods. When the acute crisis is over, we will need revitalizing measures. These are expected to be outlined in the next amending budgets. For example, a stimulus voucher to be distributed to all Finns would be an effective way to accelerate the recovery of the cultural and service sectors. These sectors are among the biggest sufferers of the crisis, and the banknote would support entrepreneurs and the access of low and middle-income people to services. In addition, infrastructure projects that are important from a climate point of view need to be accelerated, as well as the construction of affordable rental housing. There is also concern about the welfare of children and families in exceptional circumstances. The Government must invest in providing special additional support to counselling centres, day care centres and schools as soon as possible to strengthen the well-being of children and young people. Local authorities are already looking forward to a support package of at least EUR 1 billion promised by the government, and it would be useful to learn more about this as soon as possible, so that municipalities can focus on the well-being of residents and not on financial concerns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u15	Mr President! The draft amending budget provides for an increase of EUR 832 million in total in the form of additional debt. Good recovery targets can be considered, for example, infraa or, for example, the correction of mould schools, because, above all, education, research and development should now be invested in. In these knowledge investments we have fallen behind competitors in recent years. It is clear that support measures must be directed to those whose business has been restricted by the state. Although the need for resuscitation is high, it does not exclude the fact that central government expenditure must also be critically reviewed in the autumn budget debate. Millions cannot afford to be thrown into every hole, which seems to be a government line at the moment. I would also like to call for cost-effectiveness. The budget is EUR 6 million for the development of a mobile application that has not even been competitive. Why does every EU country have to develop its own application? Could it have been possible to develop jointly in a coordinated way? Almost the same amount, EUR 5 and a half million, was just given as voluntary funding to the WHO, even though the organisation spends some USD 200 million a year just on the travel expenses of its employees. Where is the efficiency and assurance that the millions we are feeding the WHO with debt money are really going against covid-19? Nor is there any justification for increasing the solidarity of the euro countries. Above all, however, we should consider what options we have for mere debt-taking. True Finns are not in favour of tax tightening, but I have already talked on several occasions about strengthening the tax base for ay movements, as these public-interest entities are still enjoying their tax exemption. This is where the government could get hundreds of millions of income, according to calculations. This spring, Kojamo alone pays its owners 84 million in dividends anyway. Citizens are in distress because of layoffs, and because of the high rents, housing subsidies coming through Kela flow directly through Kojamo as tax-free income for pension companies and trade unions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u18	Mr President! Central government debt is at unprecedented levels and should therefore be critical of what current activities, let alone the government's new plans, can afford. The government programme has dropped its base, but the government continues to work on ideological issues, leaving adjustment measures to the next government. — Good government: You have a responsibility now. Do as you're told. And where is the municipal support package? In municipal policy, the Social Democrats and the Green Left are holding back municipal negotiations and other austerity measures by convincing themselves and other decision-makers that the government is still helping. It's nothing. It's nothing. It's nothing. It's just a way to close your eyes to the real situation. The government is not becoming a municipal package that would actually save the deep-water municipal economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u21	Mr President! In particular, the amending budget and the spring financing arrangements call into question EU guarantee responsibilities. Guarantee liabilities can be dangerous for a small economy such as Finland. This proposal contains a State guarantee of EUR 432 million to secure the EU SURE Facility and a State guarantee of EUR 372 million to the EU Covid Guarantee Fund. We must already think about a situation in which the financial markets may be in a situation of instability. In such a situation, Finland would be in a very different position from Germany, for example, and the whole and size of the solidarity guarantee liabilities. This is an exceptionally difficult situation because the economy is deteriorating in all areas: firstly, it is deteriorating from the point of view of central government finances. Then there's the business demand cut off and the lay-off wave. The production capacity of companies and, at the same time, the ability of taxes to pay will be reduced. The situation in local government finances has deteriorated for a long time in the 21st century and still projects are being carried out that do not have sufficient profitability through income funding. Guarantee liabilities through Finnvera have increased considerably, and this will be followed by these EU-level solidarity, such as this SURE, Guarantee Fund, ESM and the recovery fund on the table. These various suggestions now come from doors and windows. As we requested in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is precisely this package that needs to be examined now, not only for these individual aid instruments or guarantee instruments individually, but for this whole situation in a situation where the economic situation in Finland can deteriorate further. For example, the Bank of England has predicted that the country will face the worst recession in up to 300 years. The government's attitude towards joint responsibilities is too loose. In particular, the EU Guarantee Fund in this proposal is risky and losses are possible. At the very least, then, a decision must be postponed and a strong conditional decision must be included. With regard to the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), the Committee on Constitutional Affairs called for appropriate conditionality as a condition for support. This means the commitment of the Member States which are taking subsidies to fiscal consolidation, otherwise the money will only be taken and may, in practice, be used for other purposes than the acute health measures for which it was intended. Finally, it is important to highlight this preparatory EU recovery fund. Despite its name, it is in practice a project to launch joint and several Eurobonds, with the size of the joint responsibilities already moving in thousands of billions of euros.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u22	Irade the Talman! First of all, it is good that Finland also supports the WHO. When someone drops the baton, the solidarity - bearing countries lift it up for the common good and take it forward. The undeniable advantage of a small country, such as Finland, is that we have rules-based international cooperation, that we can work together, even though there are, of course, some shortcomings in all of them. During this spring, companies have been supported in an unprecedented way, in many different ways. This additional budget is another indication of a strong desire to support, and we all see that, although there is a huge negative cash flow here, it is a prerequisite for that cash flow to turn positive that we have companies that can employ at the time when the economy is being mobilised. Restaurant support as a matter of fact will be dealt with here at a later stage. It's great that it's coming, it's a parliamentary requirement. It is a good thing that there is still room for discussion here, we can consider certain points where it may be necessary to refer to the details, mainly in relation to the reference months and perhaps how other aid for various purposes is taken into account here. Of course, you can also think about free ways of supporting small brewery activities or restaurants and temporarily making exceptions to the provisions on alcohol law and out-of-door sales. Finnair is also involved in this and cannot underestimate the importance of its own airline in a small bordering European country. It's important to keep it up. Without Finnair, Finland's ability to cope with the challenges of the future would be considerably weaker. 13.5 billion, it is a huge deficit, it must be quickly closed. Although it is not the time for the cut-off lists — although the basic Finns seem to have them there a little bit of them — it is clear that when the stimulus starts, we must also have a plan for adjustment measures, there must be a plan for how to close this gap, and that was also the opinion of experts today when the matter was discussed in the Committee on Finance. As early as the autumn, we need to reflect on the issues that will bring the whole of central government finances, public finances to balanss. There's no time to lose on that. We also need to consider how to maintain the flexibility introduced during the crisis, how to make working life more flexible, and how to increase labour supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u23	Mr President! In response to Mr Koponen and Mr Simula: the municipal support package is on the way in the fourth amending budget proposal. Representative Park spoke ahead of the Finnish guarantees, and I will continue with them. I agree that the situation should be seen as a whole. This third amending budget proposes that the Government may grant a State guarantee of up to EUR 432 million for loans granted under the temporary support instrument SURE to mitigate unemployment risks arising from a European emergency. In addition, it is proposed to authorise the Government to grant a State guarantee of up to EUR 372 million to the European Investment Bank in the event of losses arising from the Pan-European Guarantee Fund. This Guarantee Fund shall be established within the framework of the European Investment Bank. I agree with the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the overall assessment of growing responsibilities will ultimately have an impact on whether the arrangements relating to the corona crisis can be considered constitutional. In the future, when discussing such proposals for EU membership, the Government's report will assess the financial responsibilities and risks cumulatively, and I hope that taking into account the issues that have already been decided and foreseen, which will soon be decided upon. There should be an adequate explanation of the guarantees and similar liabilities related to Finland’s membership of the EU as a whole. This is a good thing to keep in mind in the future. The Vesa Vipriälä report has sought our economy out of this crisis and a way out of reconstruction. In addition to the recovery, measures must be sought to keep public finances on a balanced path. We must not unduly increase the burden on future generations. The time has come for challenging decisions. These decisions concern both Finland and the European Union's joint decisions. This amending budget focuses a great deal on business situations, their facilitation and the costs of managing and combating corona virus. I believe that all these measures are necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u24	Mr President! There are four stages of this crisis: the first is the suppression of the epidemic, the second is the exit, the third is the recovery and the fourth is the adjustment. I'm sure it'll take more than a decade for all of these things to be taken care of. The government's policy on the suppression of the epidemic is very unclear. And even before repression can be seen, the government is already starting an exit for schools this week, and then very soon we will move on from it. This is a very risky policy. This draft budget contains some of these measures that target Finnish business activities, and the Finns of Peru support the investments made by the state in favour of Finnish business and employment. On the other hand, we certainly do not understand this government's European policy. Now that there is a European minister here, you will certainly know exactly what Finland's responsibilities are already at European level. The European Central Bank, with its purchase programme, has already contributed some 2500 to 3000 billion to the central bank balance sheet. Finland's calculated share is tens of billions of euros. This is our responsibility inside. Of course, the EU budget is open and we are now building more spending on it for us. The Target 2 system should include approximately 100 billion responsibilities for Finland. They are imputed liabilities in this situation but existing ones. Within the ESM there is a sum of tens of billions, at least EUR 12 billion, which must be paid on demand. In addition, these bonds are being discussed. This budget includes, through the SURE system and the guarantee of the European Investment Bank, additional liabilities of more than EUR 800 million to Finnish taxpayers. How much is the government prepared to take responsibility for the bad, reckless economic conduct of other countries and, on the other hand, for the responsibility that comes to us when there is an emergency in Finland, as it is at present? Our job is to save Finnish companies, jobs and create a basis for recovery and adjustment after this situation is over. How is the government prepared for this, and what is your policy in this regard? That is certainly what the people of Finland are asking today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u25	Mr. Speaker! Today we are celebrating two of these days, a day of attention, and in relation to that, the handling of this third amending budget for 2020 actually happens quite nicely: today we are celebrating a Finnish day — a good Finnish day for all — and also a nurse's day. After all, this amending budget is part of the management of the corona crisis that Finnish society and all mankind have been doing in this early year. In this Chamber, too, we have made numerous legislative proposals, financial decisions to deal with this corona crisis, and nurses are in the vanguard. And this is a snellmanic, blue-and-white issue in many ways when these solutions are also being made for this amending budget. President! The theme of this amending budget could be support for companies, industrial policy and also support for tourism in Finland. The size of this amending budget is about EUR 800 million, and the lion's share, about EUR 700 million, is a provision for the capitalisation of our Finnish blue and white airline, Finnair, that a country with more than 50 % of Finnair's shares could participate in a possible share issue or otherwise capitalise on our own airline. All airlines in the world are currently in serious trouble, and it can be predicted that there will be such a thinning and a play-offs game. However, as Mr Adlercreutz has already said in his excellent speech, the national airline is a vital prerequisite for Finland, a strategic prerequisite for life, for many reasons. We are practically an island, an airline is needed for logistical reasons, security reasons and not least for industrial policy reasons. It is a terrible shame that just when we had tourism on its feet, then this corona pushed it down. But I think better days are coming. President! I do not think it is advisable to close airports in Finland; we need all existing airports. I would like to take the example of supporting air transport from that western neighbour of Sweden. There are good solutions, including small fields are kept alive, seen as part of a critical infra. In addition, we have interesting projects at smaller airports, for example, on both sides of the Gulf of North: both Västerbotten and us in Ostrobothnia have an electronic air traffic development project. President! This amending budget also deals with this long-awaited support for restaurants, and I think it is very important and the Central Parliamentary Group attaches great importance to the fact that the government made this statement in its minutes that Parliament can correct this support. There are clear shortcomings and problems that need to be addressed in the parliamentary procedure. According to the Coalition Party and the other right-wing opposition, we in the Parliamentary Group of the Centre Party invite these shortcomings to be corrected. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u26	Mr Kalli and then Minister Kulmuni and then Minister Tuppurainen after a few speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u27	Mr President! The third draft amending budget for the year is once again larger than the amending budgets for normal conditions, this time totalling EUR 832 million. Indeed, the scale of the draft amending budgets already adopted this spring and still to be adopted in itself reflects the seriousness, extent and depth of this crisis. The proposal includes a number of supportive and well-founded measures, including in relation to Finnair's capitalisation, securing the liquidity of the Employment Fund and supporting restaurants. We will be discussing the content of support for restaurants in a moment' s time, but as has already been said several times in this debate, it is quite clear that support for restaurants is necessary, correct and reasonable and that the proposed support model still requires some improvements and clarification by Parliament, just as the government itself has denied us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u30	Mr President! A few comments and answers to the questions that came during this debate. After all, Finland has not been prepared for a virus epidemic of this kind and our legislation has not been as flexible as it should have been, and that means, for example, that restaurants cannot only be partially open, open and closed somewhere, but that we have legislation that is open everywhere or closed everywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u37	Mr President! I would like to raise a few important points about the third amending budget proposed by the government. Firstly, it is very important that we are closely involved in the development of the coronavirus vaccine. We do not solve this problem alone, but the contributions to the Academy of Finland to support covid-19 vaccine and drug development research are small steps that can bring big results even to the world. Secondly, I would like to highlight the support package for restaurants, which has been in disgrace for several weeks, which Parliament has demanded of its government. Now it has come, but it is not sufficient and it does not treat all actors equally, and it has a totally unfair reference period. It seems strongly that the rescue of the restaurant industry is that the government eventually handed over the package to Parliament. Don't worry, the coalition will take responsibility. I will explain the possible solution separately in the following section on the future aid package. Finally, I would like to talk about the government's proposal to increase the guarantee liabilities of the European Union in Finland. The European Union is an historic peace project that has brought prosperity and prosperity throughout Europe. However, this fact must not drive us into a situation where the only expression of solidarity is transfers and increased guarantees. You have to take care of your own interests. No one else is doing it for us. It does not make us anti-EU, nor does it make us less team players by demanding strict rules in the economic management of EU countries, but it actually strengthens the EU team and its common rules of play in the long run. Finland is living from an international perspective, and one of the crises that we will overcome will be one of these. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u38	Mr President! This proposal contains important contributions which will help to remedy the damage caused by the epidemic. I would like to draw attention to this EUR 3 million allocation to support research into vaccines and drug development, and to the EUR 10 million concession which is, of course, necessary, but yes to this research into vaccine and drug development and then also to the production of vaccines at a rapid pace. We know that Finnish professors have developed almost a ready-made corona vaccine, but the work done on the vaccine threatens to go to waste because Finland has driven down the production of vaccines. According to researchers, it would be reasonable and entirely possible that vaccine production should also be carried out on its own without international giants of medicines. There is a risk that Finland will not get enough vaccine in due course if we stay in line for the finished product on the international market. It would therefore now be important for Finland to have vaccine production in its own hands. After all, Finland had vaccine production for over 100 years, but it was decided to stop it 17 years ago. The then Public Health Institute, the current THL, stopped producing its own vaccine because it was considered too expensive. Certainly there were grounds for this decision in time, but since that decision the manufacture of vaccines has evolved. The so-called vector technology introduced in the 21st century is easier than the old virus breeding methods. This method also allows for an easy increase in the size of production, i.e. it is estimated that Finnish producers would be able to produce this vaccine for all Finns. Well, while maintaining your own production requires resources, it is also expensive to fight this corona. Those previous ones, including swine flu, have also shown that safeguarding their own production is particularly profitable in terms of security of supply. I think that the government would now be required to take bold and important decisions to get that production started. After all, we have now started this previously discontinued manufacture of protective equipment, and in the same way we would need to do in the future for these vaccines.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u39	Mr President! This Government's proposal for Parliament's third amending budget for 2020 is to put out the acute crisis and fire. One important element in this as a whole is that the Blue and White Wings, Finnair, are being sought to support the future. Yes, Finland will need both short-term and long-term air connections, and once Finnish day speeches have been made here, I believe that solid economist Snellman would understand this if he knew that such a thing is being flown today. However, the key question for the economy is how soon we can take steps towards a more normal state of affairs. If the crisis persists, there is also a clear prospect that our big export sectors will be in trouble, and that time may, unfortunately, be closer than is believed. It may already be in the autumn, and then in this room the noses will be quite white. Mr President! In his own speech, Mr Kurvinen invited the assembly and the opposition to join in these efforts to patch up the government's proposals. This amending budget also includes an appropriation for the nutrition sector, and Parliament has required reasonable compensation for the fact that restaurants were closed. The matter has been delayed, and now the legislation has been brought to Parliament with the government's message that you should now correct the errors if they exist — and they do exist. Mr President! The Coalition Party has presented, and will present, corrigendums to this paragraph, which will be discussed at a later stage. This appropriation is insufficient, the model is too complex and treats companies unequally. There is also a need for rapid action on regionalism, on how to deal with areas where this epidemic does not exist in practice. That is not exactly the point of this government's proposal, but it should also be taken into account. The figure is then this Business Finland funding, which formed a little like this hybrid model. So it was thought that it was development aid, well, then the instructions were given, that now let us use a few other points, that this can be used for an acute crisis. Now that we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy are considering how to deal with this Business Finland aid, this problem started a little from the fact that this Business Finland award criterion has been somewhat confusing,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u40	Mr President! Today we are debating the Government's third draft amending budget for 2020. First of all, I would like to wish a happy day for all the nurses who are currently working in hospitals, health centres, medical centres, care for the elderly and elsewhere and are doing the work that is being constantly being done here, in the context of the corona crisis and its effects. The draft amending budget has increased funding for the Academy of Finland in support of drug development research and research into the effectiveness, safety and effectiveness of new coronavirus vaccines and medicines, and this is very much to be welcomed. In addition to the vaccine study, it is also necessary to develop other methods of treatment and preparation to control the corona, and they also require input. From a future perspective, it would also be important for clinical trials and university level research in health sciences to receive sufficient long-term funding through non-project funding. That is why it will be of paramount importance in the future, and there will also be a statement from Parliament. The development of health technologies and related research is also important, both now in the context of the corona crisis, in terms of, for example, the loneliness of older people and the safeguarding of their services, and also in the future, in response to the challenges of ageing and increasing service needs. The draft amending budget also includes an appropriation for the procurement and preparation of a covid-19 tracking application using mobile technology, which is also important in order to manage the epidemic for its part. I would have liked this draft amending budget to have included some kind of appropriation for the purchase of facial protection for the population. Today, Finnair has exemplaryly announced in its aircraft that it will introduce a facial mask for both staff and passengers, and also at Finavia airports for its own staff, and it has also been recommended to passengers. I hope that this will be seen in the next draft amending budget, because it will, above all, also prevent the spread of infections. And that is also important if we consider this restaurant sector, which is planned to be opened on 1 June, in order to restore people's trust and to encourage the use of these services in the future. Of course, it is important for everyone that safety is guaranteed. But we also need more trust,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u41	Representative Kauma and then Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u42	Mr President! The appropriations for the third amending budget and their targets are all to be welcomed. In particular, EUR 700 million for Finnair's capitalisation is very welcome. Now we know that in Europe and in the wider world there is a airline play-off from Lufthansa, and of course countries want to support the travel and repatriation of their own citizens from the world on their own national wings. Then the next item is the strengthening of the Finnish Academy of Finland's vaccine research with EUR 3 million. We in the assembly believe that the sum could be greater. After all, 10 million has been put forward for 10 years. We'd like to double the amount. About a few weeks ago, I asked a written question on the subject and I received a reply last week that according to the WHO, 108 different vaccines are currently being developed, possibly two of which are about to produce results at the end of the year and a third at the beginning of next year. Two different vaccine studies against coronavirus are under development in Finland, but neither of them is included in the WHO list. The aim could be, as many representatives here have already said, to produce their own vaccine in Finland, not just because this situation has shown that self-sufficiency is also needed in this area. In my reply to the written question, it was stated that the goal in Finland is to make a national vaccine research centre. One of our weaknesses is that we have vaccine research in different parts of Finland and they work with limited resources and then do not coordinate activities between each other, so we really need more funding and leadership. Mr President! The Academy of Finland is not the only one who needs that money, but VTR research funding has also decreased significantly over the last 20 years. It's been 90 million before, but it's only 21 million this year. In other words, all the governments, all the government parties have been involved, unfortunately, in reducing these appropriations, and I hope, Mr President, that the government will intervene. Then there is support for nutritionists with EUR 123 million, and this is what we really have in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy this week. The sector itself has wanted 350 million, so now we are trying to find a model and an amount that would be sufficient for them. At the meeting we have proposed a package of EUR 300 million, which would possibly be sufficient to cover all these losses and expenses. Mr President! Finally, with regard to these EU responsibilities, I would like to say that we are now in the same situation as we were after the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u43	Mr President! First of all, I should like to thank Mr Sankelo, who has already left. In my opinion, he well described the importance of Finnair on the Finnish day when he said that even Snellman himself would have liked to keep the blue and white wings in flight. That is exactly what it is, and it reflects the spirit that has come out of many speeches in this Chamber. Finnair is our traditional national airline, and we want to secure Finnair's operations beyond this difficult crisis, a crisis that Finnair itself is not guilty of in any way, but that this corona crisis has dealt specifically with airlines and tourism, and it is our responsibility as a responsible owner to help the company from this situation forward. I would like to thank Parliament for granting the EUR 700 million mandate. It seems to be making good progress. I would also like to thank you for the EUR 600 million guarantee already granted for the loan back to TyEL. It was about securing the liquidity of the company, but with this EUR 700 million, we will ensure the solvency of the company. It is now a question of capitalisation arrangements, a stock issue in which the State is also preparing to subscribe to its current shareholding in relation to shares. We own 55.81 per cent of Finnair and in this respect we subscribe to shares. If I have to say that we are preparing for everything for Finnair, that is what this EUR 700 million mandate and all this will tell us. We want to make sure the company survives. It is clear that the return of tourism, the return of flight may take up to two to three years, so this crisis will continue. But according to the company’s own estimates, these arrangements are sufficient, and we are no longer going to ask Parliament for at least a moment, and at least not for Finnair’s new powers. President! The question was raised here about the sustainability of the company and its climate responsibility, and I would like to say that we have recently adopted a decision on the principle of state ownership policy, which is truly ambitious in terms of climate objectives. It requires state-owned companies to take into account the Government's objective of carbon-neutral Finland 2035 and take into account the conditions of the Paris climate agreement. This also applies to Finnair, where we are the majority owner, and to all companies, and as the owner-director, I will demand that all state companies develop monitoring of their own climate impacts, develop their reporting, and we as the owner will follow this very carefully. It was referred to Air France and asked whether we could not build a similar conditionality in this capitalisation scheme. Well, I have to say that the cases are not quite one-size-fits-all. In our case, there is a recapitalisation arrangement which is market-based within the framework of EU State aid rules and in which the State invests capital in the company under the same conditions as other investors, and such conditionality would not be in line with the nature of these market-based recapitalisation arrangements. But this principle decision also binds Finnair, and the corporate responsibility program is also very ambitious: the company intends to halve its net emissions by 2025 compared to 2019 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2045 at the latest. This is something we, as the owner, warmly support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u44	Within the time available, Mr Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u45	Mr President! Public health and the economy are closely linked. The father of our national economy, Snellman, has been mentioned today. Of course, it can be dramatically mentioned that he lived at a time when his wife, Johanna Wennberg, died of child bed fever at the age of 29. Today we are living in completely different times, thanks to the development of the national economy and public health. I will not repeat the good speeches that have been made here, nor will I use this time to refer to this excellent amending budget. I am trying to ask myself whether we are experiencing a public health crisis, whether we are experiencing a health crisis or an economic crisis or whether we are experiencing all three. I know that it is easy to be misunderstood if you say that the current corona epidemic is not a public health crisis in Finland. For example, public health crises included tuberculosis, which killed between 7,000 and 8,000 people each year before the wars for many decades. The public health crisis was a heart disease epidemic in the 60s to 70s, with 5,000 more deaths per year for men under the age of 65 than at present. The public health crisis was also the number of our traffic deaths when it was 1000 more per year than it is at present. We are now faced with a very challenging health problem, but it is not, at least, on these horizons becoming a public health crisis. It is testing the health system, but it is still in control there at the moment. About 1.5 percent of hospitals are currently in the treatment of corona patients. 98.5% are not, but we have a creeping health crisis in those patients who are now not being treated for this. But the third point: we have an economic crisis, a deep economic crisis. I myself anticipated in my speech a few months ago that this might go close to a 10% drop in our GDP. After all, our first official estimates were 4, then we were talking about 7 and now we are talking about 9 and perhaps this exceeds 10%. That is why all these amending budgets, of which this is now the third, and the lime lines already have the fourth, are very important. We need to take all the measures that we can get the economy going. This will be a difficult balance between the corona epidemic and the opening-up of the economy and then the support for sectors in crisis, but it is excellent that we now have concrete measures at an active pace to resolve this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u46	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u47	We will now resume the debate on item 2 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u48	Mr President! The focus of this amending budget is also on preventing the effects of the corona crisis. I would particularly like to highlight the issue of the vaccine. More funding has now been directed towards research and development, but it would be useful to consider whether there is also a need to prepare for manufacturing capacity at home. I am concerned about this, because I am sure that these decisions and their preparation should be taken in a forward-looking manner if it is to be estimated that there is a need to do so. Hetemäki's first exit report had dealt with the vaccine very briefly, and it also had no fork in the possible ways that we could proactively take action and thus possibly speed up our position on the schedule for the introduction of this vaccine. Similarly, I hope that this strategy of testing, tracing and isolation will be even more intensively addressed and its positive effects will also be calculated economically. When more people have said that Finland cannot afford such a model and should act like Sweden, and it is thought that the epidemic will then be such that the economy will survive, it actually seems that the Swedish economy is going to suffer as much as or a little more than in Finland. In other words, there is no way in which this disease, all the time, would not affect consumer demand in particular and then lead people, regardless of restrictions, to reduce their consumption, and of course this whole global situation is absolutely central to our economy as a whole. So it is worth investing in cost-effective means, as has been done now, but in order to fully implement the strategy and plan of this testing, it would be great to think about it as well, for example, when working from abroad to Finland makes it easier for us to target certain groups of workers or certain people or regions, such as my home town Helsinki, a little more extensive testing, so that we genuinely achieve the objective of tracking the supply chains and keeping the disease situation low here in the capital region as well, at least now, in several regions of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u49	Mr President! Finland is an island in Europe. Finland is also geographically far from our many export markets and large global markets. That's why we need good connections. The third amending budget consists of EUR 700 million to enable the State to participate, among other things, in the new subscription of Finnair shares. Finnair is very important to Finland. Without the company, Finland would have less direct routes to the world. We will see this when we look at Stockholm, for example. Traditionally, long-haul flights have been the focus of SAS in Copenhagen, which has contributed to the relatively few intercontinental flights from Stockholm, despite the economic importance of Stockholm in the Nordic countries. The difference is that Finland has had its own airline.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u50	Mr President! These key points have long been discussed here, which is what this third additional budget includes. I would mainly address two issues, this support for the restaurant sector and then these guarantee schemes. It was quite clear from Finnair above how important it is to get to the finish line as soon as possible. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will probably then assess what changes it will be possible to make to this support for the restaurant sector within this timeframe, but it must be borne in mind that it has not been possible to find the ultimate abundance of money, that it can, as it were, be indeterminately owed to these support arrangements, but that there is still room for improvement. In particular, this comparison of whether it takes place on the basis of the spring of the year before, on the basis of the turnover of the whole of last year or, as the proposal suggests, on the basis of the loss of interest rates in relation to the turnover of January to February — here is this leeway. However, it would have to be held to this infrastructure that both this employment-based element and the part which must be found in summary, mathematically and quickly distributed on the basis of the loss of turnover. The second question is this coordination of aid from Ely and Business Finland. Of course, it confuses the fact that part of the aid, the aid for business aid, has been allocated on the basis of the loss of interest, and part of it has been allocated on the basis of development criteria. It might be that this kind of compromise could be found in such a way that the percentage of aid paid by Business Finland or Ely would be taken into account in the conciliation. With regard to these state guarantees, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs drew particular attention to this covid-19 fund, which would operate in the context of the European Investment Bank, and that would be very risky funding, clearly differs from these previous models, and therefore the Committee did not consider the aspect of the additional report on the matter presented in the context of the constitutional assessment to be unproblematic, according to which, in the current market situation, the arrangements relating to the Guarantee Fund are, in principle, highly risky. This is why it was concluded that, in the Constitutional Committee, it was stressed that, for constitutional reasons, if registration is made, it should in any case be made conditional, since the granting of a State guarantee requires the application of Article 82(2) of the Constitution and can only be granted on the basis of the consent of the Parliament. In other words, this would be a matter for Parliament to decide on separately with regard to the approval of this guarantee. It is particularly important in this timeline that during May, for example, we should be able to learn what will happen to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u51	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Vi behandlar alltså regeringens proposition om en tredje tillagsbudget för år 2020, och anslagsökningen är total 832 million euro. Här ingår bland you give teckning av actier i en issue som Finnair ordnar. Fungerande flygförbindelser är naturligtvis oerhört viktiga för ett litet land med långa avstånd internet, och som också är beroende av exportindustrin, som ledamot Löfström och många andra arv redan har lyft fram.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u52	Mr President! Indeed, in this amending budget EUR 123 million has been offered to the restaurant sector, and it goes without saying that it is too small to keep this wave of bankruptcy out. But most of all, I am heartened by this temporary SURE fund, because now our European guarantee responsibilities are only rising and rising. Even in this Chamber, we have been able to hear how wonderful Europe is and how much misery we would have if there were no EU, and we would probably have interest rates on mortgages of 30%, as was almost there — or 17% at least in the early 1990s. However, they would not actually be so. I just can't see the good in all this money that is going to have to be rotted by the banks of Central Europe and others over the years, and there will be even more decay in the future, because it goes without saying that this fund, which is what we are doing here, is not going to breathe for more than a minute. There are European bankers with their hand in hand to Finland quite quickly after the waste of this temporary fund too. Should we at last and finally take that attitude to the job that Europe was not necessarily such a wonderful wonderland where Alice adventured, but rather a little harsh truth and a little colder? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u53	Mr President! After the interest crisis, the slot machines have been closed, but one machine constantly swallows the money of Finnish taxpayers. Unfortunately, this bar of Eurodependents is such that they play with common money and in it the Finn always loses.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u56	Mr President! I would like to thank the government for this excellent amending budget, which is really well addressed to the root causes and root causes of the companies that are currently suffering from this corona virus crisis. My brothers from that Swedish-speaking Finland, Mr Löfström and Mr Strand, have already spoken very well on this point — I am not going to repeat these speeches — but I would like to say that I really hope that now the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will carefully assess the criteria for this support for the restaurant sector. There is certainly some development to be made in what the government has proposed. I am surprised at what Mr Mäkelä has said. I don't know, but Mäkelä apparently and the True Finns bow to the east and bow to Putin. It's very confusing, though. Mr Mäkelä, the fact is that Finland benefits from being part of Europe, not part of Eastern Europe or part of Russia,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u58	Mr President! Of course, our criticism of the Eurosystem, which is gradually beginning to show its intolerance, has nothing to do with us bowing down to Russia. In fact, the Finns of Peru are in this Chamber specifically the party that does not bow down to Russia. The amending budget therefore includes state guarantees of more than EUR 800 million for the EU and the euro area. Such aid packages are completely endless and the responsibilities that are being imposed on us are not coming to an end; on the contrary, they are accelerating with the crisis. After the financial crisis, the lack of confidence was not yet resolved when this new crisis, which concerns both demand, supply and health, hit the Union. In practice, all the dividing lines between the Member States are still the same. The defenders of the EU and the euro claim that the internal market is an important public asset and must therefore be prepared to pay billions. We should be prepared to pay the debts of Italy and other countries in the south, bad and reckless and populist finances, tax evasion and general short-term hedonism. The interest only strengthens these, it is by no means their fault. Italy is in debt and Italy is circumventing taxes, whether corona or not. To put it bluntly, increasing joint responsibilities will encourage Member States to continue their debt at the expense of others. This system encourages irresponsibility and carelessness. This crisis would be a good time to reform the system of Euro-Society, all the failings associated with it, and to break the taboo on debt. True Finns cannot support increased responsibilities or real economic transfers. It is necessary to face up to these facts and to understand the enormous problems facing the Eurosystem now, at the latest, and to allow Italy to possibly drift into a debt arrangement and finally out of the euro. According to Economist Tuomas Malinen, a large part of the euro area population has been sacrificed on the altar of the euro. Malinen says the system is falling apart. According to him, if a country leaves the euro, Finland must be immediately next. So the most likely first to leave is Italy. At the moment, Finland is following Germany in everything. As we know, the problem is that Germany benefits from the euro and the Mediterranean countries are important export targets. Finland does not benefit from the euro, and for us the importance of the Mediterranean is negligible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u59	Mr President! Indeed, there is a government proposal to Parliament for the third amending budget for 2020. It is, of course, important that this so-called food aid package, EUR 123 million, should be allocated as an appropriation to compensate for these exclusions in the restaurant sector, but also to re-employment. However, the amount of EUR 123 million is insufficient in relation to the fact that last year alone, in restaurants, sales in April and May amounted to around EUR 1 billion. This amending budget gives only this appropriation, and in the second paragraph the Parliament and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs will then assess what criteria for support are being changed or the reference date is being changed or some other measures are being taken to increase this package of aid. It is also important that this amending budget capitalises, among other things, Finnair, where the State has a majority of ownership. However, Finland is a partly island country here in northern Europe, and our transport connections, including air connections, will be important in the future, although surely some of the activities will change to different distance jobs and the need for mobility may be drastically reduced in the world by the corona virus, but sales and marketing and tourism are also needed. It may be that nature tourism, such different silence retreats and others are increasing, and in that sense there is still a need for such sustainable tourism in Finland, and if, for example, Lapland and Northern Finland are to be considered, it is absolutely necessary to maintain air links there. An example of my own hometown: some 16 flights have now been reduced to a couple of flights per day, and it is, of course, also a significant downside in terms of its accessibility. It is also important that it is proposed to increase the mandate of the Academy of Finland by EUR 10 million, in particular by proposing an increase of EUR 6 million in the costs of preparing, acquiring, implementing and maintaining the tracking application and in the state contribution of the new coronavirus vaccines and drugs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u60	Mr President! We are dealing here with the third amending budget, and it is very good that these amending budgets have now been brought forward with a rather rapid timetable. Of course, now we are waiting for this municipal and hospital district support package and then for the services of children and young people, but I am told that they are being prepared there, and that is very good. This amending budget includes money for the Academy of Finland for drug development research, and I absolutely agree that it is worth taking the Finnish pharmaceutical research forward, it is also worth taking the vaccine research, it is worth considering how we could even be producers on that world market. It has a big exercise, but I'm sure it's good enough to take away that Finnish expertise. We believe, however, that this support for the Academy of the OKM is not sufficient, but we will propose more. This EUR 123 million intended to support dietary entrepreneurs is very important, but we are also proposing more. Then, on this disease tracking application, too, I would just like to say that it is an excellent thing, and it is important to bring this here as quickly as possible. There was, of course, more to this amending budget, and it is important to move all of these forward. With regard to this support for nutritionists, I would just like to say a little bit of the same thing that we usually do in support of business, that in order to keep jobs and not be in the same situation as we were in earlier recessions, it is good to support business. The first version that was launched through the government was very bureaucratic and proved to be less effective, but fortunately such a change has been made. I am definitely in favour of taking Finnish expertise forward. Here I would like to remind you that we have health technology, which is actually our future area of innovation and export. It should now be supported in order to create jobs, but also in this context of interest rates, in order to promote these innovations and development. Here are a few words about this amending budget, but actually I would have liked to have spoken in the past because there was misinformation here. It was argued at the Minister's mouth that we would not have been prepared for this type of legislation, for example on the prevention of corona. We have a pandemic plan, we have legislation, we have an infectious disease law, we have a preparedness law. That is not the case here today. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u61	Mr President! The aim is to contain the interest rate epidemic by means of a testing, tracing, isolation and management strategy. An essential part of this is the use of a tracking application to identify the transmission chains, and now in this amending budget the Government is allocating funds to prepare, purchase, commission and maintain a mobile tracking application. However, the allocation of EUR 6 million is very likely to be insufficient to create and maintain a functioning monitoring system, especially when it should be implemented in a very timely manner. The interest tracking project is progressing, or has progressed, unfortunately slowly here in Finland. After all, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health only collects opinions on the draft law, and according to the current timetable the application could be available to the public in July-August. It remains unclear to whom the management of the project has actually been placed within the government. Timo Harakka, Minister of Transport and Communications, has spoken most prominently about the application, to whom this is, of course, a part, but I understand that the main responsibility lies with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the ministers there, Mr Pekonen and Mrs Kiuru. After all, the National Institute for Health and Welfare is the owner of the application in the project, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that the application is becoming voluntary, which will certainly also contribute to the handling of this application from the point of view of the Constitution, for example. But I hope that confidence in this system will be great if it is to be useful, namely, it is estimated that up to three million users will be needed to do the desired thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u62	Mr President! We are dealing here with this third draft amending budget, and there has been a lively debate today. Many recognize the need for this proposal, both from the domestic side and from the side where Finland now supports joint action at European Union level. Some critical comments were already heard from the people of Peru. In the large committee this package was discussed, the government was denied access to discussions at European level, and the position of the large committee was very clear in that there is room for this type of guarantee arrangements and Finland should be involved in this solidarity process. It is quite clear that here too we had what it means in terms of Finland's own budgetary sovereignty, and it was said that in this respect this proposal does not break Finland's budgetary sovereignty. Here, too, there is a clear starting point for each Member State's own responsibility for its own economic policy to remain in play. This is, of course, central to this, and there is no real increase in this solidarity debt. It should be borne in mind that this overall package in this context, this amending budget, is now about this so-called SURE programme, which is a guarantee fund for the realisation of employment risks in the Member States. This is a guarantee that would be realised to Finland, it would be close to EUR 450 million, in the event that no Member State would be able to carry out those responsibilities or be able to participate in this process. It is the maximum level at which, realistically speaking, this will never be realised. Here, too, the conditions of the European Stability Mechanism are now being anticipated in such a way that there will be a basis for change which will enable it to be used also in this context of the interest rate crisis. In this respect, Finland's own capital liabilities do not increase at all: the overall package works as it does, with the funds that Finland has already invested in the stability mechanism. In this respect, it makes sense for this solidarity to now be demonstrated at European level. We have had a long debate on whether some Eurobonds and coronabonds could have been used to finance and develop within the Union. Now this is a compromise which approaches this issue partly through the existing funds, which is the financial contribution to the small businesses of the EIB, or through the ESM and this new ad hoc measure, which is now the nature of this SURE fund. Mr President! I was a little surprised when I listened to the comments of the Finns, representatives Laakso and Mäkelä. Mr Laakso said in that way that he would now like the European Union to really help at some point: we have invested a lot in it in a long run, and then, when there is an emergency, we would expect help. I did some thinking about how we can expect the European Union to help if the Member States do not make a contribution to it. That is what this is all about. The Member States will support this. Here is now this kind of showing solidarity clearly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u63	Mr President! Let's continue here with Congressman Kiljune. In other words, this solidarity is being called for here, but I am sure that we too will face up to it at some point. We are already committed to it, up to our hands, up to our elbows, and now we should continue to go along with this. This is where Mr Purra referred a moment ago to one expert, and when I was looking at that magazine on the economy, the European researcher Timo Miettinen also stressed this issue and said that if we do not jointly and severally support Italy and these other countries in southern Europe, then it will be very close to the break-up of the euro. So are we going to tie our hands now so that we will continue to give more and more, because there is a well there, where we will sink as much as they put it? Here, too, if we look at the situation in Italy, it is 500 billion or 1000 billion, which is what the need is at the moment. The ECB's cashier's office is starting to... Is it 4700 billion in the balance sheet — I think it is at the moment. And these responsibilities, even though we are only one small part, I do not think there is any point in going up. Indeed, this option that the euro is now slowly moving towards the end is a realistic and viable option. The Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, among other things, mentioned a moment ago that these funds, which are now the subject of concepts, are high-risk funds, and that is also what Mr Kiljunen said about the fact that 450 million will never come against us, is not the case in the church either. Now that I have listened to business leaders here lately, there is a great deal of talk about that demand, there must be demand. When we are an export-driven country and completely dependent on exports, how are we going to get our exports to really pull out of this future situation, now even after the interest rate? Or should we support these export-driven companies in this country by other means? They talk about the need to reduce the energy tax and many other things so that we are on the same track with other countries. As far as Italy is concerned, as long as Italy is in the euro, Italy will not rise because it will not be able to compete with Germany and other Central European countries with these products. And now, if we get into the same situation ourselves, I do not understand what is happening here. Now this GDP-adjusted debt is growing all the time — according to the latest estimates, it could be up to 100%. Ten years ago, it would have meant that the state was bankrupt. Today, at zero interest rates, it can still be thought that it is possible to go forward from now on, but it is quite right that our children and grandchildren should be able to cope with this debt burden in due course. Just a few small questions to ask. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u64	Mr President! That is where I left off a little bit. Indeed, it was said here today, for example, about the closure of restaurants, which is why this aid package has now been put in place, that we do not have such a tailor-made closure in restaurants. I personally believe that we should be there in tailoring from now on, that in some areas there may be a need to close down, in some areas there may be a need for customisation inside, that not everyone is closed down. It was claimed that we would not have such a possibility, and that is not the case. We have an infectious disease law that definitely allows us to close. If there is an epidemic, such as a bad epidemic in a restaurant or something, it can definitely be closed down, even a single restaurant. It could have been closed down to this day. Then they found out we didn't have a plan. We've had a plan, and we've been prepared. They said we weren't prepared for this. We have a pandemic plan first in 2006. Then a new pandemic plan has been drawn up in 2013. When the swine flu was learned back then, it was further refined. Whether you bought as much protective equipment in every single place as that pandemic plan has told you to do is another thing, and I don't take a stand on it. They are usually the responsibility of hospital districts or every producer there. But we have had clear instructions in the kingdom about how to prepare for this type of thing, because this is not the first virus or the last one to come here. There have been ten years of peaceful times, but for that we have had all the plans and the legislation has been, and even the preparedness law. Whether it's a stand-by law is a different thing, and I'm sure we can evaluate it again. But if we can close down some restaurant, we can. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u65	Mr President! I, too, have just finished my speech, and I will take it from there. I take this theme in the ‘Responsible for Solidarity in the Union’ debate at a certain level, taking into account Of course, this solidarity is reflected in the fact that we live in the common internal market, in the area of common commercial policy, and we also have free movement in this area, which automatically creates so much cohesion and cohesion that it brings solidarity to other activities, economic policy and decision-making. It is clear that the economic responsibility of the still sovereign nation states lies with each Member State itself for its own economic policy, and this solidarity debt is not something that any of us are pushing for to increase in relation to the fact that some Member States are not managing their own economies properly. In this respect, this critical observation should be kept. But now that we are talking about these guarantee liabilities in relation to this corona crisis, it is going to go a long way if we do not recognise the great importance of this solidarity in this very situation, because it is not a question of neglect or of activities in a particular Member State, where clearly there has been a bad response, but rather of a symmetrical crisis, of symmetrical difficulties in all the Member States, and that is the outside cause. It is in such a way that it is not the Member States themselves. And in this respect, this presence of solidarity in this debate is extremely understandable and also desirable and also reasonable. Now the guarantee arrangements, the fund arrangements, seem reasonable, meaningful. Let's move this way, because they created this consensus. In this regard, Mr Koskela also reflected on this structure of the Union and began to move on from the fact that the export-dependent country is now export-dependent, that what we are doing now with regard to our own export industry is spitting money into Europe and not supporting this own business. With this argument, he has no idea how the market works. Finland is indeed an export-driven country. Finland’s most important export area is the European Union’s internal market. If the internal market collapses or is in a serious crisis, it will be directly reflected in our export potential. In other words, while we are trying to stabilise the economy at European level, to achieve new growth, new momentum in transport, to overcome this interest rate, we are also helping our own economy, our own export industry, and hence employment and the development of this society more generally.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u66	Mr President! These forms of support or guarantee liability are still reasonable, but there are also more challenging points that need to be taken into account. Mr President! On this day of Finnishism, it is nice to watch the third amending budget work for the benefit of Finns. This proposal has an additional EUR 10 million for the Academy of Finland for this year. This support is particularly linked to research into coronavirus vaccine and drug development. Expenditure on the development of a coronavirus vaccine is important and worthwhile. This is very important from the point of view of the health and safety of citizens with regard to the supply of medicines. This crisis has taught and taught us security of supply and respect for homeliness. It is good to have both the development and production of medicines here in Finland. We cannot rely on other countries to do so and then hope to be at the top of other countries' delivery lists. The crisis has highlighted the importance of self-sufficiency for us. National interests, safety and security of supply are best achieved through own pharmaceutical production. In my opinion, more effort should be made in the development and manufacture of medicines in Finland. In this situation, the investments put into it will allow a faster and better transition to the post-corona period, and the manufacture of medicines will also bring more desired jobs to Finland. The amending budget also provides for EUR 6 million for expenditure on the preparation, procurement, deployment and maintenance of the corona infection tracking application. At the moment, we are quite convinced that the epidemic is not a one-peaker but a multi-peaker. In other words, the epidemic will be prolonged, which is a challenge especially for people at risk. The sooner we can test, trace, isolate and manage the mode of action in an effective and effective way, the better. In order to target testing and thus take timely isolation and treatment measures, we need to be able to track potential asymptomatic carriers and sufferers in order to control the spread of the virus in the big picture. I believe that the tracking application to be developed will come and will also help in future crises.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u67	Mr President! There has been a debate here about this European solidarity and the associated guarantees during the interest rate crisis, and I must say that there are also risks for Finland. Overall, the interest rate crisis strongly increases credit liability events in the Finnish state, and in Finland the position of state guarantees is already clearly the largest relative to GDP in the EU countries. EU guarantees for the management of this corona crisis are high-risk and it is very possible that guarantees will also be payable. When we talk about this fund, this fund is more of a European solidarity project of this kind and its real benefit to Finnish companies is questionable. Päivi Laine-Sandberg, Professor of European Law, also estimates in Helsingin Sanomat that ‘the benefits of the 25 billioneuroncovid-19 Fund in Finland are low,as it is expected to provide highrisk loans,in particular to European companies’. The problem, of course, is that, apart from the fact that, as Mr Kiljunen has said here, there is a question of an external threat, now about this corona crisis, we clearly also have very different approaches between the countries of the European Union as to how the economy has been managed. That is why it is a problem for Finland in particular if we now add this principle of solidarity to the economies of those countries which have traditionally done worse for their economies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u68	Mr President! The third amending budget for the year will focus in particular on facilitating the financial situation of companies and the costs of managing and combating this virus. This additional amending budget is particularly intended to increase Finnair's share issue, but at the same time it also includes support for restaurants, powers to reduce the risk of unemployment due to a European emergency and to the European Investment Bank and the State guarantee to the Employment Fund. Mr President! I wanted to speak because, with today's commendable debate, there have been statements from the opposition in the direction that the municipalities would not have been remembered or that the municipalities would be left to their own devices. I would like to remind you that in June there will be a draft amending budget, which will certainly also include the municipalities with a certain type of aid package. I would also like to remind you, President, that when the aid package comes to the municipalities in June, there will certainly also be these recovery measures and recovery funds. I would like to remind you that this country will emerge from this swamp through the export industry. As the son of the north and as a representative, I am also concerned that the forest industry is already in good health, but the forest is not moving enough, that is to say, the fibre tree is not moving, and I would also be prepared to discuss whether we, as a state, could not capitalise on the existence of a stable or future climate fund in relation to the fact that the state would come to the aid of a kind of national capitalism, that the state and companies together would raise the industry, especially the export industry, the various areas of the forest industry, in the model that, when we embark on a new rise, Finland will be ready to rise up with the export industry. Mr President! With this kind of thought for a referral conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u69	Mr President! Mr Räsänen raised the issue of guarantees in the construction and development of European Union funds, the burden of guarantees on Finland. Of course, he is right that they burden Finland and, of course, these guarantee arrangements also have their own risks. When he then went on to wonder what angle we have to assess whether Finland should be involved in this or not, that we are not, after all, benefiting — the economists and others — on the same scale as some others, this benefit is two-way. One-way benefit is directly that Finnish companies can receive financial support here if necessary, if they meet the criteria and otherwise, but that other benefit is indirect benefit, and it is much more significant here. It may well be true that a significant proportion of these funds also go to the most vulnerable EU Member States, but it is self-evident that Finland's success as a part of the European Union depends on the success of all the Member States. The weak development of its weakest Member State is reflected in everyone, including Finns, and in the sense that these joint actions taken at European level to overcome this corona crisis together are necessary, and in that sense Finland benefits from this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u70	Mr President! This is how it makes me want to say a few more words about Finnair, which is a very important and valuable airline for us, which we must take care of and hold on to. During Korona, blue and white wings have flown Finns home for safety, and of course Finnair is also needed under normal conditions. The company plays an important role in Finland's internationality and economy as a whole. Today, international air connections are a necessity for us. Finland's service and tourism industries have also grown significantly in recent years, and many visitors from elsewhere have come to Finland in the middle of beautiful and clean nature. Good air connections are not only in support of tourism, they are also central to our nation's economic stone base, the export industry, the operating environment. In Finland, air routes also play an important role in regional accessibility. There are therefore a number of reasons why the proposed increase of EUR 700 million in the stock acquisition of state ownership guidance is to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u71	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u72	Mr President! The temporary amendment of the Act on Accommodation and Catering and the closure of nutrition stores to customers meant very significant interference in the freedom to conduct a business and the protection of property. However, an exceptional law was necessary to prevent and slow down the spread of the corona epidemic. In connection with the legislative amendment, Parliament required measures to compensate and mitigate the effects of reasonable costs for restricted restaurants. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs considered this important when they assessed the proportionality of the restriction. The restriction entered into force very quickly, and the restrictions were very important despite the fact that the so-called take-away sale was still allowed. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy immediately started preparing the proposal as a compensation model together with the Ministry of Finance. Work has been done continuously. However, a new form of compensation is not from the easiest point of view from a legal point of view. In addition, the practical implementation of compensation has called for reflection. No such presentations have been made in Finland before. The aim of the preparatory work has been to ensure that the model is as easy as possible for companies and that the compensation is readily payable to the companies entitled to it. For this reason, the model uses information available to the authorities, including information from the Tax Administration. Efforts have been made to make the calculation model as simple and clear as possible. It has also been necessary to consider how the model will then be put into practice. The resources of the aid authorities are already at an extreme level. This model proposed by the government is in two parts. Firstly, this seeks to support employment, and secondly, the model channels reasonable compensation to restaurant companies. The first part of the model is not directly related to the compensation required by Parliament, but it mitigates the effects of the restrictions on both traders and workers in the sector by supporting the employment of the restaurant sector. Much of the people working in the restaurant industry have been laid off because of the corona epidemic. At a time when restrictions are slowly beginning to be lifted, it is also important to ensure that companies also have the capacity to re-employment when they start up. This employment-related aid would be granted on application by the company. The aid would amount to EUR 1000 per employee. The condition for granting the aid would be that the amount of wages paid by the undertaking to the worker during the three months following the end of the restriction is at least EUR 2500. In this way, it is not entirely necessary for the company to open up the business immediately after these restrictions have been lifted at the beginning of June, if it is not yet commercially viable at the time. The maximum amount of aid is granted for the number of full-time workers who worked in the company before the start of the crisis. In addition, aid may be granted to a company for a maximum of 800 persons. Any other aid received by the company may also affect the final amount of aid. The employment aid is granted under the Finnish framework aid scheme, which has been approved by the Commission, and it is therefore possible to grant a maximum of EUR 800000. The cost impact of this employment subsidy is about EUR 40 million. The figure is estimated at 40,000 persons employed. The second part of the proposal relates to the reasonable compensation required by Parliament for operating restrictions. The aim is to support the capacity of the catering company to manage running, inflexible costs. The amount of the reasonable compensation shall be calculated on the basis of changes in the operation and it shall be possible to obtain the compensation from the dates of validity of the limitation, i.e. from 4 April until the end of May. The amount of compensation is directly affected by the reduction in the company’s sales. The company will be compensated for costs which it has not been able to adjust to the change resulting from the statutory restriction. It is therefore a question of inflexible but continuous costs for the company, i.e. not supplies of materials or wages or investments. This compensation would mainly be paid in the form of a mass payment without application on the basis of company-specific VAT data. I would like to point out here that this is a key element of this compensation. Companies would be credited directly to their account as soon as possible and without applying. It would be determined by the change in the company’s sales during the individual month. Only companies whose sales in April 2020 were lower than the average sales in January to February would be eligible for compensation. A reasonable compensation of up to 15 % of the sales decrease would be made. Since the adoption of the Government proposal, discussions have been held as to why, at the time of the comparison, the average sales of January to February have been utilised. The same discussion and reflection were also held in preparation by officials from various ministries. Finally, the average sales in January to February 2020 were selected as the reference period, especially because changes in the restaurant sector take place very quickly: new players will come and old ones will disappear quickly. If the reference date had been applied for, for example, a year ago, many restaurant entrepreneurs would have been excluded from the aid simply because the restaurant did not exist at the time. Similarly, the aid could have gone to the wrong address for restaurants that have reduced their activity at the turn of the year, for example. The greater the distance from this reference period, the greater the degree of certainty and the extent of the company’s activities. This is to ensure that this automatic collective payment is paid to genuinely active companies and to the widest possible number. The size of nutrition movements and the scope of business in the sector vary a great deal. The amount of compensation thus varies significantly as it is determined by the scale of the activity. The maximum amount of compensation would be EUR 500000. In addition to the maximum quantity, the model also includes a cutter. For companies with an average sales volume of more than EUR 1 million in January to February, the amount of compensation is calculated, instead of 15%, for those who exceed EUR 1 million. Compensation shall be paid to individual companies irrespective of their ownership arrangements. A departure from this would be problematic from the perspective of equality. As a result of this cutter and the turnover limits, large operators in the sector, for example with several dozen restaurants, will receive relatively less than small operators. The purpose of the cutlery and turnover limits is to ensure that the credits are not unduly high for large operators. Moreover, the largest players have more bargaining power to reduce inflexible costs, among other things. It is important to note that the present proposal does not constitute general support for the restaurant sector. It is based on a restriction laid down by law and the will expressed by Parliament in connection with the restriction. Therefore, even if they have suffered as a result of the corona epidemic, nutrition movements which are not subject to the restriction cannot receive compensation or support for reemployment under this law. This refers to restaurants closed to outsiders, such as staff restaurants. The compensation is granted only to companies that have paid their taxes, i.e. managed their VAT obligations, and the employment subsidy is based on the wage data reported to the tax office. Reimbursement is made to an account communicated by the company to the tax office in the same way as, for example, tax refunds. This is a performance which is determined in a uniform way for all undertakings subject to the restriction. The total amount of compensation would therefore depend on the actual decrease in sales. In addition, any interest-based subsidies from Ely centres or Business Finland would be reduced. The overall cost impact of compensation for operating restrictions is estimated at around EUR 83 million for a total of two months. The implementation of this would be entrusted to the Centre for the Development and Administration of Employment and Economic Development Offices, the so-called KEHA Centre, and the preparation has been carried out in close cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration and the KEHA Centre. Our aim is therefore, on the one hand, to make a reasonable allowance for the restrictive measures required by Parliament and, on the other hand, to encourage companies to open up to employment. With this model, we can support not only companies but also the fact that as many people as possible who have been laid off or laid off because of the corona virus epidemic can return to work. Since this government proposal has been submitted at the request of Parliament, I consider it particularly important that it also ultimately corresponds to the will of Parliament, both to the reasonable compensation for the losses caused by the ban and to the arrangements to mitigate the effects. In this respect, the proposal will certainly be carefully reviewed in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy in good cooperation with the Ministry of Employment and the Economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u73	Mr President! The government's support for nutritious entrepreneurs is indeed, as the Minister said, necessary and absolutely necessary for Parliament, but the budget for support is too low in relation to that need. The allocation of aid has its own shortcomings and does not take full account of the needs of different companies. But, as the Minister said there, there is a desire in Parliament to make changes to these few points. Restaurants and cafés were therefore closed by a government decision, and it is therefore important to compensate these nutritious entrepreneurs for their losses. Nutritionists are also very important employers and, therefore, with this support, the government must make every effort to preserve the jobs in the sector and also to help them overcome the worst crisis. I therefore think it is important that this aid has specifically raised this aspect of employment and then, as a second element, this reasonable compensation. The Christian Democrats will come in their own option, in their amending budget initiative, to propose an increase in that support to EUR 250 million, and also to extend those criteria in order to take better account of the different types of companies. In the Government's proposal, catering companies will be credited for the months under restrictions for changes in sales for those whose sales in April 2020 have been lower than the average sales in January to February 2020. There are a wide range of seasonal restaurants and catering companies in Finland, which have constant fixed costs for rented premises and which do not necessarily accumulate much sales in the early part of the year, and which have then also lost spring sales, and at the same time the prospects for the coming summer may be rather low. Therefore, Parliament should examine whether this support could be allocated instead of the mid-term sales of the first year, for example, by looking at how the corresponding time was in the previous year, or, for example, on the basis of the average sales of the whole last year, when different types of seasonal variations of this kind should be better taken into account. The limits on cutting and turnover will certainly be examined in Parliament. It is indeed important to take into account the fact that, in a tight situation, catering companies have been able to develop their business and retain part of their sales. On the other hand, we hope that this activity will not be punished. The Minister mentioned why, although we know, these staff restaurant companies are unable to participate in this support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u74	Honorable Speaker! The sale of restaurants has collapsed and the workers have mainly been laid off, while rents and many other expenses have to be covered. In the referral debate, therefore, there is a very important government proposal to support the reemployment of catering companies and to compensate for the restrictions on their activities. The proposal to support re-employment is good and well-founded. On the other hand, I consider the proposal to make up for the restrictions on action to be problematic. It therefore proposes that the compensation be paid in proportion to the change in sales, but the reference point is the situation in January and February 2020. The sales of restaurants are highly seasonally dependent, so I think it would be much better to compare the situation to one year ago. This is where I think we need adjustment. President! More than a thousand new restaurants will be established in Finland in a year. These restaurants, which have not had a sale in January or a year ago, or where the situation has changed substantially for some other reason, should also have access to support. I do not think it is an impossible task to define that support. It is also good to be aware that Finland is the promised country of seasonal restaurants, such as, for example, shipping or dance stage restaurants — they are also affected by the corona, and their workshop has also become empty. The compensation mechanism must be smooth so that money can be made available quickly to companies' cashiers. This is justified by the fact that the aid is based on existing data. If, for some reason, data do not exist, for example for new restaurants, it is possible to carry out a more accurate assessment, even in a slower time frame. President! A complete support mechanism can hardly be created, and it cannot be so much that the state has an endless spike open or that all losses are fully compensated. However, efforts must be made to help healthy businesses to overcome this crisis. I am particularly concerned about those restaurants that have invested in this spring but have never been able to show their bets because of the interest rate. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u75	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes the average sales in January and February 2020 and its comparison with the sales in April 2020. This method of calculation does not adequately take into account seasonal variation, which is typical of the sector. In very many restaurants, the sale of January and February will be smaller in April in normal years. In addition to March-April, exceptional conditions will also have a dramatic impact on the sale of May, which would be one of the most important months of the year for many restaurants, including very popular restaurant days for May and Mother's Day and many spring festivals, graduations and business events. May is also marked by the end of schools and a day of capping, which would be a very busy restaurant day under normal conditions. Mr President! I listened very carefully to the Minister's arguments regarding the fact that the entry into and exit from the restaurant industry is very rapid, and in that sense it is clear, of course, that there is obviously no completely fair basis for compensation. However, I would like to see this matter examined in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and I believe that there are sensible ideas in this regard. In any event, the method of calculating the compensation criterion is unfair to the majority of established restaurants. It would be much fairer to compare the total sales made with the corresponding period of last year and to include in that comparison the entire time the restaurants are closed by decision of the Government, this knowing at least until the end of May 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u76	Mr President! It is important to thank when there is a place for it and to acknowledge the errors so that they can be corrected when there is a place for it. Health protection has so far been more successful than any other country, despite the fact that the crisis has highlighted the problems that have arisen in the administrative machinery during several periods of government. Thank you to the people who follow the instructions, to the health workers and to the government and to the Ministry of Health, who have brought the right things in due time to be decided by Parliament. On the other hand, in the case of corporate subsidies, there have been problems with which everyone in this Chamber is partly responsible. As companies were in a hurry to receive aid, the government suggested that existing development aid should be used. In line with the request of the National Coalition Party, it was decided to increase the subsidies, and even though they were five times as much as the government’s proposal, the Finns of Peru protested, in which they wanted more than hundreds of millions more development aid. Well, now everyone has said that development aid does not act as acute crisis support, and for the second time we have a situation in which Parliament is considering major changes to the business support proposal brought to Parliament. This time, however, we know that aid will only be targeted at those companies that are sorely in need of it. Unfortunately, there is a risk that a large proportion of the restaurants will still be excluded from the aid. Mr President! I'm in a hurry. I'm in trouble. If the system were to be completely fair, each application should be dealt with with with time. There is no possibility of such a thing because the cash base of companies is already visible. The solution is a convenient way of dealing with the matter mainly automatically in the early part of the year, comparing the income of the interest rate period, but this does not work in the seasonal restaurant industry. Many companies have done quiet renovations early in the year and many small entrepreneurs have taken their leave. I therefore hope that the reference point could be 12 months of activity, which is not complete either, but is the least problematic and, in most cases, automatically dealt with. The applications in which the restaurant was established in 2019 or 2020 would then be dealt with separately. This would enable grants to be mobilised within a reasonable period of time, even though, unfortunately, all the changes are slowing down the process. On the other hand, development aid should not be reduced from other aids because it is necessary to use them for development activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u77	Mr President! The government proposal under discussion is an extremely necessary and desirable package of support for nutritionists. As we know, regulatory restrictions have had a very strong impact on the business of these companies. For many, sales ran out as though they were already in March, while some have been able to maintain their operations partly in line with the limits imposed by the interest rate. The proposed aid model consists of two parts: firstly, the nutrition company has the possibility to apply for aid for the employment of workers when the company is re-initiated. Secondly, the proposal compensates and mitigates the effects of the restrictions on opening hours, as required by Parliament. The purpose of the proposal is to support the capacity of the nutrition company to manage permanent, inflexible costs during the exceptional period and to try to keep as many companies in the sector as possible on their feet. Mr President! In addition to protecting human health, saving jobs and securing livelihoods are central tasks of the government during the crisis. We do not yet know how long and how the emergency conditions will continue. That is why we must do everything in our power to facilitate the business of corona time in cafés and restaurants. Exceptional legislation must not prevent the implementation of new ideas or effective concepts. In Häme, too, there has been a lot of concern from small entrepreneurs about the over-focusing of support measures on large operators. The fear that regionally restricted support euros will run into big chains and not local entrepreneurs must be taken seriously, and a balanced and fair solution must be found together. In line with the proposal, the comparison of April's turnover with January-February's turnover has received widespread criticism. As we know, the busiest season in the industry is spring and early summer. It has been suggested that turnover should be compared to the average monthly sales of the previous year and this should be reconsidered. For example, the choice of a reference period for start-ups starting in early 20, or for companies open only during the season, is to be decided separately. Mr President! The issue of alcohol law has again been raised by Korona. You can only buy alcoholic beverages from the restaurant if the restaurant has its own separate sales space for the sale of the products. On the other hand, you cannot order home drinks from domestic small breweries, for example, but online orders from foreign breweries can be made from foreign breweries. The liberalisation of the sale of wine would improve the difficult situation of many nutritionists. Restaurants sell food to customers to take with them. Thus, selling out a food drink would also safeguard the jobs of restaurants and breweries during an exceptional period. Mr President! I would also like to highlight the government's good policy on excluding the shadow economy from aid. The compensation is paid on the basis of the VAT data of the tax authority or otherwise verified reliable data, and the employment subsidy is based on the wage data reported to the tax authority.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u78	Mr President! As we have discussed here, the corona crisis has hit businesses in the service sector in particular and restaurants in particular. The situation in restaurants is still exceptional in that they have been forced to close their doors by means of separate legislation adopted in this house and, at the same time, the freedom of business for these companies and entrepreneurs has been restricted, which means that this is also a very exceptional procedure in this country. In the context of that legislation, Parliament also adopted clear statements which have obliged the government to prepare this proposal for the alleviation of the needs of entrepreneurs, and the Constitutional Committee also considered it necessary, in its own opinion, to provide for both a reasonable compensation for the losses caused by the ban and a mitigating mechanism for traders. These instructions are very clear as to what the government of the country has received from Parliament. Mr. Speaker! Now, the fundamental question at this point is whether this government proposal, which we are dealing with now, corresponds to the framework conditions required by the Finnish Government. He's not answering. This government model cannot be regarded as a reasonable compensation for companies whose turnover has fallen very sharply. This aid package of EUR 123 million, with all the casts that have been mentioned in this Chamber, does not correspond to what Parliament unanimously decided in this Chamber when adopting this previous law. Mr. Speaker! Today, in this Chamber, we have argued that this level of aid should be increased to EUR 300 million. At the same time, it is necessary to change these criteria for granting aid in such a way that, if an entrepreneur has received support through Business Finland or the Ely Centre in the past, the criteria for granting this restaurant support are not affected accordingly. It goes without saying that, in this situation, for example, the sale of wines should be allowed for restaurants, and I would actually ask the Minister how he views this issue. Mr. Speaker! This absurdity of the reference period for aid has also been mentioned here, i.e. when compared to this sale of January/February. Firstly, this restriction excludes seasonal restaurants, which are often open from April to September, for example. A very large number of seasonal companies find this unfair. This support does not take their needs into account, and that is entirely true. In addition, the early year is practically the quietest time of the year in business, and it does not really describe the situation that companies have had in spring. Mr. Speaker! I believe and hope that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will take firm action on this proposal and will:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u79	Mr President! To begin with, Mr Saramo’s speech — he was just about to leave — is to say that it seems to him that when a government succeeds in something, it is a government’s goodness, and when a government fails in something, it is the fault of others.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u82	Mr President! In this Government's proposal to support the reemployment of nutritionists and to compensate for restrictions on their activities, there are many drawbacks. One of the most important is that subsidies should be granted on the basis of sales in January to February. As is well known, in January-February restaurants it is quiet as in a felt slipper factory, excluding, for example, the seasonal destinations of Lapland. This is exactly how the season begins in May, when the terraces are opened, is May Day, Mother’s Day and graduation parties. At the very least, it would be reasonable and fair for the aid to be granted over the corresponding period of the previous year, compared to sales, in which case the months would be comparable. Another issue that requires attention is the plight of small breweries and of the nutritionists who are mainly producing alcohol, which has not been taken into account at all during the crisis. At the same time as the decision to close restaurants should have been accompanied by a policy of relaxation in the sale of alcohol from restaurants. In addition, small breweries should have been given the right to sell at a distance, since restaurants are the most important single channel of sales for a large number of small breweries. The industry is quite new in Finland, and there are currently 106 small breweries in operation, most of which have been established in this decade. Consumers have gradually discovered Finnish craft brewery products, but their availability has deteriorated significantly as a result of the current situation, and the whole small brewing culture is under threat due to the corona crisis. This has also raised concerns in the government's ranks, but there are no measures. I wish for less talk and more action. You can see from the presentation that it has been prepared in a hurry, although the problems for restaurants have already been known when planning closure decisions. It is quite unusual that the government even expects Parliament to make changes and thus the responsibilities and solutions of the controversial support package will be put to the whole of Parliament. Both the award criteria and the amount of the aid must be reviewed in a comprehensive manner. Unfortunately, the aid comes too late, there is no temporary legislation to allow alcohol to be sold out, and this is undoubtedly the responsibility of the government. Mr President! A little less attention has been paid to the fact that the entire production chain, up to the primary producer, has suffered from restrictions on restaurant activities. When the business of an entrepreneur is, for example, the cultivation and sale of potatoes, it is difficult to quickly change it, and the goods that normally go to a large household kitchen remain in stock. The government failed to provide firm subsidies severely, and even in the midst of the crisis, the aid fell into the pockets of companies and social media entrepreneurs. At the same time, both restaurant entrepreneurs and food producers are still struggling with the problems caused by the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u83	Mr President! The situation of entrepreneurs and businesses in Finland has been radically and very extensively affected by the interest rate crisis. The tourism and restaurant sector in particular has suffered. The Government’s decision to restrict the freedom to conduct a business specifically for restaurants has particularly damaged the restaurant business. That has been heard many times in this Chamber today, and it is true. However, the Government's decision must be understood, as this chosen line ensured the health of Finns. It is important that all types of companies affected by the interest rate should be supported as equitably as possible. This will avoid a massive wave of corporate bankruptcy and mass unemployment. This is an objective that the government must support very much, and the general support that is being prepared for this will be a real need, thanks to the government. It is clear, however, that restaurants should be helped beyond the crisis in the problem or challenge of securing reasonable compensation for the lost income that this crisis has caused for restaurants. In particular, the business of restaurants was hindered. There is also the will of Parliament for this reasonable compensation. Mr President! In restaurants, the most important thing is to guarantee fair compensation for lost income. It would be clearer to compare the value added sales to the now lost interest rate spring with the sales in spring 2019. The Government’s proposal is based on a quiet early year, which does not describe the loss of revenue from restaurants in the best possible way. In any case, the aid must treat undertakings of different sizes reasonably on an equal footing. The compensation arrangement must also be smooth. According to the Government, one sub-lot is to be paid to companies in order to obtain money for their cashiers without applications for aid in a crowd drive. This is a very sensible and commendable line. But further efforts are also needed to support the tourism and restaurant sector. There are many proposals to allow alcohol to be sold out, and I find it easy to support this proposal. That would be a good addition to helping restaurants in the midst of the crisis, and I hope that the government will take up this proposal that goes beyond the government's opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u84	Mr President! Regrettably, this government proposal contains a lot of faults and rightly has been criticised by the industry itself. The first is the level of support envisaged. It is too low for all instruments to meet the need. According to the restaurant industry itself, the compensation should currently be around EUR 350 million, i.e. about one third of this government support. Therefore, the level of support must definitely be adjusted upwards. In this respect, the government could, if it wanted, come to the line of the Convention, i.e. raise the subsidy to approximately EUR 300 million. Another criticism is the compensation model envisaged by the government. Well, according to the restaurant industry, it's really bad. Firstly, the fact that the assessment of the level of compensation is based on the turnover of January to February is wrong. In this sector, the differences between the turnovers of the various months are large and for many the first weeks and months of the year are the quietest times. It would be better if it were based on VAT sales by restaurant companies from 1 April to 31 May 2019. This would bring us closer to the right number of losses. Secondly, Mr President, the model treats businesses of different sizes unfairly and artificially. The forced closure of the restaurant sector in order to tackle the Korona virus has caused serious problems for all businesses in the restaurant sector, and the jobs of all sizes of companies are at stake. That's why the government's idea of putting small and larger businessmen together does not serve anyone. It is also the case that there are also companies in the restaurant sector with VAT-free activities. They would be compensated for their loss of VAT-free sales. They would make a separate application for this and would provide an explanation of the proportion of VAT-free sales to the authorities and would receive compensation through this way. Mr President! The Government's proposal should also take more account of new entrepreneurs in the restaurant sector. Several restaurant companies have started their business since the above mentioned 1.6.2019. The date of starting the business is known to the authorities. Damage to them should also be compensated. The basis for reimbursement could be their VAT sales, depending on when the restaurant company started operating. In addition, the demarcation of the entrepreneurs covered by the compensation must be reviewed. The personnel restaurant companies must also be included. This should, of course, be done in such a way as to compensate only for lost sales. Finally, Mr President, the government proposal should also look at the relationship between the planned aid and other aid granted during the interest rate. These are the much talked about subsidies distributed through Business Finland and the Ely Centre, which the Government's proposal considers to reduce compensation for damages through this support. In my opinion, this cannot be the case. These are
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u85	Mr President! The Government's proposal is based on the unanimous demand of the Constitutional Committee, the Economic Committee and Parliament, which requires that a proposal be submitted to Parliament for support from restaurants. This significant limitation of fundamental rights in relation to restaurant activities has been required to be replaced in a reasonable manner. It is good that we have finally received this government proposal in this Chamber, because restaurants have been waiting for this support for months. Adequate specific support has been requested for the restaurant and café sectors. However, the model proposed by the government may have up to thousands of bankruptcies and tens of thousands of new unemployed. This appropriation must therefore be substantially increased in order to avoid even some of the damage. The aid must compensate fairly for the loss of the sector and also ensure the survival of cafes and restaurants beyond the corona crisis. Mr President! Sales of nutrition stores amounted to around EUR 1 billion during the corresponding period of the year before. The government's support is only around 12% of this. In terms of valueadded, The aid proposed by the Government cannot in any way be considered sufficient or reasonable. The limitation and partial prohibition of the pursuit of the business should also have been reflected in the level of the aid. Last month, the Coalition Party proposed EUR 200 million in targeted support for restaurants and cafes and, if necessary, an increase. Furthermore, the Government proposal does not treat restaurant entrepreneurs equally. The criteria for determining aid are difficult and, of course, the reference point for sales is not fair. For many of the restaurant companies, most of the turnover is generated at a very different time from the point of reference set out in this government proposal, and I hope that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will draw attention to these shortcomings. The Coalition Party has supported the reduction of VAT on restaurants and tourism to 10% on a temporary basis and other measures to facilitate the situation. Furthermore, even now, this bill on alcohol sales is being signed by representatives, and I hope that there will be broad support for it — there are many Members who have expressed their support for it but have not yet signed the bill. Since there is widespread support, could we, together with the support of the restaurants, take this issue forward? I understand that some people are concerned that overall consumption will then turn to growth. However, in view of the fact that wine sold out of restaurants is likely to be more expensive than what can be bought in shops or starters, I do not believe that such an effect will be very great and, on the other hand, this would be justified as a temporary change,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u86	Mr President! Restaurant companies need help quickly. We've been living in emergency conditions for two months now. For almost the same time, Parliament has expected the government to bring a proposal for support to restaurants. The Finnish Constitution guarantees freedom of business. When the government decided to impose a severe restriction on restaurants, Parliament required that financial losses be compensated without delay at the request of the Constitutional Committee. It is difficult to understand why the proposal for compensation in the restaurant sector was not submitted in April, but is only now before Parliament, but better late than never. Although people’s health is a priority, companies also need help to overcome the crisis. Measures based on the law must be supportive and responsible and have a rapid effect. Is this a performance? As the honourable Members have pointed out above, there are problems and shortcomings in the proposal, such as the comparison between January and February. According to the Government's proposal, a total of EUR 123 million would be provided for restaurants. It would be just over a tenth of the sales of nutritionists from April to May 2019, which was about EUR 1 billion last year. It is too little, and it cannot be accepted when we remember the restrictive measures we have taken in the area of industrial freedom. In the context of the previous amending budget, the Coalition Party has already presented a broader package of support and has suggested that the size of this package, which will be allocated to the restaurant sector, should be EUR 300 million. Services, such as restaurants, do not have euro buffers for the crisis. Just deferrals of payments and rents, let alone loan guarantees, won't help. A little relief for small businesses has brought about a new temporary unemployment benefit, but it does not benefit the payment of higher current costs, such as the rent of thousands of euros, even tens of thousands of euros. Companies must be helped to overcome this acute corona crisis. If companies disappeared, it would take a long time for them to recover and the market could be partially divided into large chains, including foreign ones. This development is not desirable and the service sector will continue to need entrepreneurial-led businesses. Now that we are discussing referrals, we must trust that Parliament, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in particular, will consult experts and provide for a package of support which is encouraging, impressive and, for the whole of our food sector, both seasonal and non-seasonal, that they will overcome this crisis. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has already started its consultations today and it is hoped that it will also conclude this matter in the coming weeks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u87	Mr. Speaker! The representative, Saramo, presented completely incorrect information about the procedure of the Finns in connection with the second additional budget. These first trade subsidies were discussed at the time. In the Committee on Finance, I asked the expert and asked that the Ministry immediately begin to amend the regulation requiring the development of the company as a condition of support, and he, this official of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, promised that the matter would be clarified. Then we objected to that second amending budget, and there, in its statement 4, in the effort, it is proposed that the development requirement should be waived. This is the procedure by which the opposition can act consistently. Then we also proposed additional appropriations for this purpose, because the appropriations are insufficient. Mr Saramo gave false testimony to this. Mr President! Mr Saramo also suggested that the mistakes made after the recession in the 1990s should not be made. I note that Lipponen's first government carried out cuts according to the so-called Alice List. The Left Alliance, the Greens and the Social Democrats were there. The cuts were made in 96 when the recession was over and then hit the poorest: income support, student aid, unemployment benefit was tightened, cut. This really should not be done now. Of course, at the time of the recession, there was a different situation than at the time of the banking crisis, the loan crisis, high interest rates and there were no elys, Finnvera, Business Finland, which could have supported companies. This is the situation now, and now I'm waiting,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u88	Mr President! It is good that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, under the leadership of Minister Haatainen, has prepared a direct support package for the restaurant sector in crisis, and that is what we are discussing here. I believe that the financial problems caused by the corona crisis have been excessive for restaurants. In addition to entrepreneurs, this has affected thousands of restaurant workers. Some have been laid off and some have had to be laid off. This two-part aid package proposed by the Ministry amounts to EUR 123 million. This will support restaurants in the employment of staff and at the same time compensate for the costs that restaurants have not been able to adjust due to the constraints caused by the interest rate. The aid now under discussion is really needed for many companies. This will help the company to compensate for the inflexible running costs. The amount of compensation depends on how much the company’s sales have fallen in April compared to the average sales in January to February. The maximum amount of compensation may be EUR 500000, minus any aid received from the Ely Centre and Business Finland for the corona epidemic. I have also been asked why sales are compared to average sales in January to February and not to sales in the summer of the previous year. The argument makes sense, though. The key problem with 2019 figures is based on the nature of the restaurant industry, where the business life cycle is relatively short. Since this is a unique automatic mass payment, there would also be compensation for companies that are no longer in operation. Therefore, it has been decided to provide as recent information as possible on the company. It is important that the aid is targeted at the genuinely active companies that need it and, in particular, that the money is paid into the accounts as quickly as possible. The presentation starts with the fact that the work is manually in a reasonable working time position, and therefore the support of Business Finland will reduce the total compensation of the restaurant. It would hardly have been easy on a fast schedule to find a solution in which it would have been possible manually to go through thousands of companies' subsidies and separate the part that has been used for development and which has been used for fixed costs and at the same time to ensure that companies receive compensation quickly without applying for it separately. Part of the aid is determined by the number of previously laid off or laid off workers the restaurant undertakes to employ. The one-off compensation is EUR 1000 per full-time employee who was employed before the start of the corona crisis. The condition laid down is that, after the restriction, the company must pay the employee a total salary of at least EUR 2 and half thousand for the next three months. This part of the aid package is requested separately. Mr President! It is now important to try to alleviate the plight of restaurants as much as possible. It's not in anyone's interest if restaurants go bankrupt. This sector is one of the largest employers, and Finland cannot afford bankruptcies or mass unemployment in the restaurant sector either.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u89	Minister Haatainen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u90	Mr President! It was called for a proposal to be brought in with some things which it is certainly good for Parliament to go through again. It must be remembered that the normal process of drafting the new law will take at least a year and a half. A whole new payment system has been created here, which has never been the case in Finland: an automatic payment system — aid, taxes paid by citizens — is being made for companies, which must be correct in the fact that the company exists and is based on uniform principles. It has not been possible to prepare this proposal for a consultation. Many of the things that are now coming to light would certainly have emerged in the consultation. Why isn't there a consultation? Because I've been busy. Over a month ago, the restaurants were closed by law, and now there is a performance here that has been squeezed and assembled by the officials of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Ministry of Finance. This proposal has now been brought to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and I am now fully open to how these amendments are being made here in order to clarify this further.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u93	Mr President! If a sector needs to be brought up, which would have been particularly affected in the past two or three months, it is the food and accommodation industry entrepreneurs and its numerous employees. The impact of the interest crisis on restaurant entrepreneurs has been severe. The company’s sales income may have decreased by at least 70 % but even 100 % as a result of restrictive measures. At the same time, however, companies have had to cover fixed costs such as rents, water and electricity. Regrettably, less has been understood by landlords as tenants. It is very much to be welcomed that this government proposal proposes an allocation of EUR 123 million for support to the restaurant sector to be used to compensate for restrictions on the activities of restaurants and to support re-employment. It remains to be seen whether the aid is at all sufficient, but at least it is a step in a fairer direction. The gruesome situation of restaurant companies is due to state control measures designed to slow down the spread of the corona virus. As a result of the interest crisis, the number of unemployed job seekers in the catering sector tripled to over 30,000. Most of them are full-time laid off, the number of whom, 22,000, now corresponded to 31 per cent of employees in the sector in April. The majority of those working in this sector are women. Mr President! The Government's proposal contains two complementary approaches: support for re-employment and a reasonable compensation for the costs of statutory restrictions on the corona pandemic. The time when the aid was compared, between January and February, has given rise to legitimate criticism, since the time is generally quiet in the restaurant sector. We have restaurants that only work in the summer and spring, and there is no activity during the winter months. Restaurants that started their operations last summer, for example, would also be excluded from support with this present presentation. It is a good thing that we are still looking at it here in Parliament, because the current proposal is not quite fair. For example, a comparison with last year's April situation could be an alternative, since it would be much better to describe the real impact of the restrictions on a number of companies. It would also be a good idea for companies to be able to choose which comparison period would be better for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u94	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Hatainen, for giving a clear presentation of the proposal and its background. This is the law on support for the reemployment of nutritionists and compensation for restrictions on their activities. There is a need to help the industry that has experienced and continues to experience a severe external attack. More specifically, when the activities of restaurants were restricted by separate legislation, Parliament, in the form of three statements, required that the damage suffered by restaurant entrepreneurs should be reasonably compensated for, that their livelihoods should be supported if necessary, and that, in doing so, care should be taken to ensure that competition in the sector functions properly. On top of these, it should be noted that speed is critical here. There's money burning in the business, and it's getting deeper and deeper. The proposal before us seeks to meet these demands. Turning this kind of support is a challenging challenge, and many aspects need to be weighed up. It is always difficult to support companies when there is a need to balance allocation and coverage with speed and accuracy. Especially good in this presentation is the design of automation and the smoothness it brings — thanks for that. After all, sales in the restaurant sector were clearly stalled before the actual decision to restrict the sector came into force. The mere knowledge of the risk of infection and the spreading epidemic affects people’s behaviour, as well as the instructions and restrictions that do not directly regulate this business. In addition, decisions were taken in the restaurant sector on self-restriction — responsible and correct action to manage the epidemic, which should not at least be penalised, as should innovation. The scale of compensation now envisaged is small in relation to the scale of the sector. Indeed, the temptation arises to compare the amount of this compensation with various other public business subsidies. In doing so, however, it should be borne in mind that there is a wide range of aid and that there are different objectives and different legal bases. Nevertheless, it is certainly welcome and appropriate to have an analytical debate and to evaluate Finnish industrial policy and business subsidies as a whole now in front of the interest rate and in general. This compensation for the restaurant sector is just one part of the bridgeping of the economy over the corona pit, the various parts of which have already been dealt with here, among other things, in the context of the amending budget mentioned above and are still being prepared, for example, in the form of general support. The goal is to keep viable companies up, but I'm afraid there will be bankruptcy. It is therefore important not only to reduce bankruptcy but also to ensure that their human and social costs are kept to a minimum. Sharing money and guaranteeing loans is not the only way to alleviate the plight of companies. In this case, one further way would be to have a deliberate relaxation of regulation, for example in relation to the sale of alcohol. All in all, of course, it is absolutely crucial how and within what timeframe the corona epidemic will be overcome and whether it will be enough to combat the epidemic, which is the most effective and least harmful to society. As a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their excellent comments and suggestions. I also listened to them from that room and I believe that this good government proposal will certainly bring together in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u95	Mr President! As many speakers have said, the restaurant sector, if anything, needs support in this situation. Of course, all sectors are equally valuable and there are many other sectors that are in difficulty, but restaurants are now really deep. However, President-in-Office, at the beginning of this speech, I would like to say that there is not going to be a wrong picture for those following this debate: the mechanisms and instruments that the government has put in place with the support of the Parliament, such as support for the development of Business Finland, the support of the Ely Centre for smaller businesses and the support of self-employed people, which has been channelled through municipalities, have also been used by café operators, restaurants and various restaurants. They have also been very widely used. I do not remember exactly when there is a bad number memory, but at the very top of the subsidies granted by Ely Centres and Business Finland are the Mara companies. In other words, the truth must not be forgotten that these companies have already been supported, and Finnvera's guarantees are also possible, although perhaps a little theoretical at this point. President! The reason for this draft law is that, exceptionally, the protection of property guaranteed by Article 15 of the Constitution and the freedom to conduct a business guaranteed by Article 18 were restricted by a specific law. In this context, this House, and in particular the Constitutional Committee, which monitors compliance with the Constitution in Finland, required that, when the law prevents people from trying and working, compensation must also be paid, and this proposal for this compensation is based on it. President! I shall now read the quote in the decision release of the General Session of the Government on 8 May2020: ‘The Board of Directors, together with the Commission, will stress that the treatment of the Member President! I believe, and all of my parliamentary group, we in the centre believe that these issues should be addressed here in the House, that is to say, this coordination. Although the Minister spoke well about it, it is not easy, but it must be seen in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. In addition, this comparison period is very important because many restaurants are seasonal and we know that after Christmas and different parties, January is not exactly a very good month for restaurants. We need to think about other options. The Ely Centres and the KEHA Centre of Employment and Economic Development Offices would then have to pay for this support in due course. President! I would like to conclude by saying that to some extent I also think that this social debate has been distorted, because many other service companies, such as hotels, taxis, barbers, have suffered financially from this corona crisis, from cars to clothing trade. And that is precisely why, Mr President, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u96	Mr President! The Coalition Party does not support the inadequate and confusing support model proposed by the Marin Government to support restaurants and cafes. It is late at birth and also slow, complex and even distorting competition. It proposes a change in the aid model and an increase in total aid to EUR 300 million. It is fortunate for the restaurant industry that internal disputes bring this proposal to the parliament. What is the problem with the government's proposal? Firstly, the compensation proposal is far too small in terms of money. This is partly due to the fact that the government wants the weakest months of January to February, i.e. restaurants, to be compared with one of the best sales months because of several holidays. Therefore, comparisons should be made with spring 2019 figures. In the case of restaurants under one year of age, too, we will certainly find a satisfactory solution. On the other hand, in its proposal, the government wants to put large and small players on an unequal footing. I understand the concern that small players in particular are in great trouble, but the job is just as valuable for both small and large companies. We do not want to put players of different sizes against each other. Simply causing market failure is an irresponsible policy. Thirdly, I would like to raise the issue of aid for the development of Business Finland and Ely. They are not created for the rescue of companies, but for the development. They should not affect the support given to restaurants. This example is merely proof of the big mistake the government has made in creating the Business Finland support system. Finally, I would like to thank those restaurants who have been able and wanted to develop their own activities by bringing new flavours to people's corona ark. At least our family has been delighted by many local restaurants during a long lock. I believe that your innovativeness will be reflected in new and growing numbers of customers in the future. However, this does not mean that restaurants that have completely closed their doors are doing something wrong. Times are cruel, and everyone acts according to their own means. It is now up to Parliament to help and be innovative for its part. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u97	Mr President! Many good speeches have already been made on the situation in restaurants, but we had to go back a little bit. In fact, all the restaurant business entrepreneurs have been lumped into the same form now, without taking into account the fact that there are nightclubs, there are food restaurants, there are Hesburger, take away chains and so on, and we cannot treat this whole entity as a single lump, but we must take into account those players there in the background. However, I myself thought it would be more common to try to set up a restaurant or set up a restaurant that requires relatively large profitability calculations: how many places to eat are worth keeping, what kind of rent is to be paid, what kind of employees are needed for any of these places and other such things. Now these restrictive measures concern precisely this title, the cost of its running costs, fixed costs. We closed the proportion so that they could not use the exact calculated capacity so that it would be profitable for business and, in that sense, smallly dashing calculations of the aid according to profitability, when the fixed costs are the problem. Fixed costs have now run for two months, regardless of whether the take-away activity was developed in that restaurant or completely closed. As far as rent is concerned, according to the information I have received, it is somewhat the same as the previous representative here said that the relief in rents is very nominal if they are at all, or that the rents have to be paid afterwards. So this is coming to the restaurant companies after they open up again, the relatively high cost of rents for these two months, any transferred earnings-related pension contributions and other similar fixed costs. That's the problem with the fixed costs. So here I would like to see a sense of entrepreneurship in the restaurant sector as well. In other words, these development aids are a good idea in the sense that activities are being developed, but it is a different matter and a completely different whole from restaurant activities. Becoming a Takeaway restaurant does not cover the costs, the fixed costs of normal restaurant activities. This should also be remembered when these restrictions are lifted. Restaurants cannot be almost open because restaurants are available in restaurants and other restaurants from nightclubs. They are either open or closed, because otherwise the same problems will continue to come from there, or investment issues will come on top of them. They say there's a great model in Denmark to support restaurants from the time the state is
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u99	Mr President! The support proposed by the Government to nutritious entrepreneurs is necessary, but I will now pay particular attention to the way in which the aid has been allocated and presented. Restaurants and cafes were closed by a government decision, and it is therefore indeed important that the losses caused by this be compensated for by the catering companies. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is important that this support should also be fair in view of the different types of restaurant entrepreneurs. For the purposes of this proposal, compensation shall be paid for months subject to restrictions, based on changes in sales, to companies whose sales in April 2020 have been lower than the average sales in January to February 2020. However, we have a number of seasonal restaurants and catering companies, which do not have much sales in the early part of the year and which have then lost their sales in the spring. And in general, January and February are quiet in restaurants, except for months in the north — many restaurants are closed for part of the time, renovations are made, even the January without a drop — and these months are often the ones when entrepreneurs can take a small vacation. April and May, on the other hand, are relatively good months, because they are hit by many holidays, such as Easter, May, Mother's Day and graduation. Many restaurants in Finland are seasonal restaurants, whose main season is spring and summer, and if now the subsidies are calculated in accordance with this proposal, then much of the restaurants will be placed in an unfair position. On the other hand, the winter seasons, which have produced good results in January-February and for which May would already be a quiet month, will receive relatively more support. And I ask the Minister: could this aid not now be corrected to calculate the results of each company in April-May 2019 and to calculate that aid? That would be fair to every company, because now the restaurants have been forced to be closed. In addition, this would perhaps be a quicker way to find out the figures for the companies, as many of them are not yet in April 2020
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u100	Mr President! The restaurant sector is a significant economic operator in Finland. I would like to bring to this debate a few aspects of the importance of the survival of the restaurant industry and to defend the increase in the planned credits to about EUR 300 million — that is to say, the rebate proposed by the government should be more than doubled. According to national accounts, the sector paid wages, pension contributions and other social insurance contributions and value added tax amounting to EUR 4 billion. The sector employs about 140 000 people around Finland. In the restaurant and tourism sector, the labour force has grown by a staggering 46 per cent over a period of well over twenty years. This is a very important fact. At the same time as the manufacturing industry has lost — unfortunately — jobs in Finland, the restaurant industry has increased them. The restaurant sector is the future sector of employment. About one third of the workers in the sector are young people under the age of 26. We need to give the restaurant industry fair support in order to enable restaurant entrepreneurs to continue as one of the pillars of the Finnish economy. A temporary reduction in value added tax in the restaurant sector should also be considered as a means of support in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u101	Mr President! When, at the end of March, we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy decided to close this area, the idea then, with regard to their subsidies, was that very quickly a proposal would come to Parliament on the way in which the restaurant sector would be supported, and now a month and a half has passed since then. Good thing it's even here today. Personally, I would have liked to see the decision to open schools last week also considered whether restaurants in some part of Finland could already be opened in May, because we have municipalities and regions where there are hardly any corona virus infections. In any case, we are in this situation and we currently have around 10,000 restaurant companies suffering from this situation, and many of them are in serious difficulties. The cash-flow crisis is threatening, it is not exactly clear what will happen on 1.6.: what kind of restrictions will there be, how many people can be in the restaurant at the same time and what kind of relationships must be followed. Many questions are still open, and the restaurant industry wonders how they will immediately get a good start on reopening the restaurants. In the past, Mrs Kauunto expressed the views of the Assembly on how we would have liked this package to be formed, and also on the fact that we believe that this 123 million is too small a sum. 300 million would probably be closer to what would really help these companies. If we look at the model we have in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, then I also see some good qualities in it. I am sure that it has left us with this two-part model, so that at least some of this money can be paid quickly now to companies, a kind of compensation or aid for these costs. Now that it is thought to be 15% of lost sales, it can be asked whether this 15% is now the fixed amount. Couldn't it be 20% or 25%? This maximum amount of 500,000, which can be paid to the company, also seems rather small. There are quite a few representatives here who have also pointed out the month in which this sale will then be compared to the month in April-May, and I myself have considered this. Could it be, for example, the mid-month sales of last year, or the sale of last year's April-May sales, or so that the company can choose whether it is the sale of last year's April-May sales or the sale of this year's January-February sales. The sector itself has come to the point of view that the sale of January to February would be 16% lower than this sale of April to May, [The President knocks ] Chairman! I'd like to bring you a quick one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u104	Mr President! Now that the corona crisis has hit the service sector and consumer demand in particular, we too will have seen how important these sectors are for the whole economy and, above all, for employment. Very often there is funding for industrial infrastructure projects, even large aid packages or sums, without always carefully assessing the impact on employment. But, indeed, the restaurant sector is one of those sectors which employ significantly and which also have a beneficial impact on the conditions of tourism and possibly attract other investments here. The sector is also very much linked to events. It is important to reflect on this overall picture in the future, how events – which are likely to have to be cancelled for a very long time, because these big events are something that I am sure cannot be opened up very early because of this epidemic – will be taken into account in the future how the tourism sector will also be supported. Of course, the most important thing is that we can slow down this epidemic and identify the transmission chains, keep the progression of this epidemic low, or, if possible, even suppress it, as has now been done regionally in Finland. It is interesting when a lot of people have pointed out that the Swedish model would somehow be better for the economy, that according to the latest estimates, the Swedish economy is going to suffer about as much or even slightly more than Finland. In other words, we do not have a situation in which this disease is rampant and we have somehow the same consumer demand, there is no point in dreaming about it. Of course, the most economical thing would be if we did not have this disease, if we were to suppress it or in such a way to control that people do not have to be afraid and are able to consume. But it is precisely in this restaurant sector that, of course, we must be prepared for the fact that, in any event, we still have these infections in the near future, especially in Helsinki, especially in Uusimaa, among others. And that is why it is very important not only to find such support elements but also to find ways to give people a genuinely safe place to shop there in restaurants. After all, the government has now decided to test, trace, isolate, and it needs to be put to use here. No matter how much hope there is for normal action to be opened, it will not be possible to do so if the disease rages locally. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u105	Secretary Haatainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u106	Mr President! In his constructive speech, Mr Slunga-Poutsalo pointed out that Denmark had a good model. Well, the Danish model is business policy support, and this is the compensation model that Parliament required. These are different things. We then have these subsidies for business policy, including this general aid, which is being prepared, but this is a reasonable compensation specifically targeted at the restaurant sector. Representative This aid for employment was raised by the disaster. This aid is conditional on a total amount of EUR 2500 paid by the undertaking to the worker during the three months following the end of the limitation — i.e. a sum of EUR 2500 over a period of three months. It could be part-time work. It does not have to be full-time during its three months, this worker can start later. So that person's salary is not 2,500, but the wages and salaries sum for the employee in three months is 2,500 euros. Then the second thing that has come to the question is whether these workers, who have been there and whose wages it is based on in February, should be full-time workers. That is not the case. That amount of aid is obtained when the wages paid for February are distributed by EUR 2500 and then the figure for which this is paid is obtained. So these are the details then. A great deal has also been said about the various ways in which support can be given. Among other things, VAT deductions have been raised and so on, but they have not now been included in the presentation of this law. The Ministry of Finance will then be responsible for taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u107	Ärade Herr Talman! Det är glädjande att stödpaket för restaurant, kaféer och barer nu har komit till riksdage och att det också inkluderar företag på Åland. Tack till regeringen för det. Restaurantföretagare har haft det valdigt svårt i likhet med många andra verksamheter. Det är dock viktigt att jämförelsemånaderna ändras från januari—februari till april—maj i fjol för att utdelningen av stödet ska motsvara verkligheten. Jag hoppas att ekonomutskottet noggrant kan titta på den ox saken i utskotsarbetet. Stödpaket behövs på grund av den exceptionella åtgärden att genom lag i practiceken stänga en nering. Det var också något som flera av oss i salen i remissdebatten gällande just stängningarna effectlyste. Stödpaket ligger på total 123 million euro och innehåller både personalstöd och stöd för fasta kostnader. Trots detta exceptionella stöd är det endast ett första hjälpen-kit för många företag och rucker inte till för att tucka alla de förlorade inkomsterna man haft. Därför är det också glädjande att att bland you give många hyresvärdar hjälpt till med att änka hyror för att på så vis också säkerstalla att det finns en verksamhet kvar effecter krisen. Det är ett talkoarbete där vi alla måste hjälpa vaandra genom den raus krisen. Irade the Talman! Det viktiga är nu att jämförelsemånaderna ändras från januari—februari till april—maj i fjol. Många restaurant har stängt eller låga försäljningssiffror under årets första månader medan försäljningen ökar desto ärmare sommaren vi kommer. Att jämföra försäljningen i början av året med sena vårmånader är därmed som att jämföra äpplen och päron. Därför behöver försäljningssiffrorna under våren 2020 jämföras med försäljningssiffrorna under samma tidpunkt förra året för att det ska bli rättvist. Det är för att utdelning av stödet ska motsvara också verkligheten. Samtidigt måste man naturligtvis också då hitta en separat lösning för att kompensera de restaurangföretag som grundats effecter i fjol på samma sätt som man plockar bort de företag som inte längre existerar.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u108	Mr President! The Government's proposal to support nutrition movements and compensate for the restrictions imposed is necessary, but late, unclear and inadequate. It is, of course, good that the government has now gone before the mirror and raised the hand in a certain way also as a sign of error. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy should now be given a genuine opportunity without government-opposition limits to remedy the situation. The proposed appropriation does not fulfil Parliament's obligation to provide reasonable compensation. The operation of the legal profession has been prevented, although for legitimate reasons, but liability arises here. The model presented also treats entrepreneurs unequally. Compensation must not falsify the competitive situation. Mr President! This package also includes Business Finland subsidies, which were launched earlier by the government on the grounds that it is a way to get help quickly to businesses. However, aid for development — with all its friendship — did not yield in the best way and became a sort of hybrid model between development and the acute situation when officials tried to follow the Government's unclear guidelines. Mr President! These ambiguities cannot be paid for by Finnish entrepreneurs. As a result, this aid now under discussion must be examined on a clean table. The aid granted in the past must therefore not have any effect. In addition, from outside this government's proposal, we must immediately start to dismantle regional restrictions in the areas of Finland where the epidemic is in hand. The legislation that has been adopted already makes this possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u109	Mr President, värderade talman! There have been a lot of good speeches here and I am not going to repeat them all now. I see that we are raising these same issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u110	Mr President! The restriction of opening conditions has had massive negative effects on the nutrition sector. Sales by some companies may have decreased by as much as 70 % to 100 %. However, some restaurants have come up with new operating models to overcome the worst crisis. For some, this has not been possible. It is very nice that the government has been responsible for the parliamentary will to compensate for the restrictions on the activities of restaurants. Running costs, such as rents, have continued in many cases, and the acute cash crisis has been real for quite a long time. I hope that Parliament will deal quickly with this support package so that the funds reach out to those who urgently need them. The aid package is justified. However, like many others in this Chamber, I find it very problematic that only those companies whose sales in April 2020 have been lower than the average sales in January to February should receive compensation. This puts some of the restaurants in a very unequal position. In the beginning of the year, many restaurants have small or non-existent sales, for example in the archipelago and many other localities. For example, a better comparison period would be the sale of April-May last year. For this reason, the reference date should be further examined in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u111	Mr President! Indeed, Saramo of the Left earlier praised the excellent way in which the health side of Finland has been handled, and thanked the government for that. Of course, according to the media records, we haven't handled it terribly flatteringly. Then, when we start talking about company subsidies and their failures, which is strange, it is somehow the fault of the opposition. I can't believe they're throwing at me. Then, Mr Strand there just called for the opposition to present whether we are making cut lists or making tax increases so that we can share this cost. This is the idea that the costs would not be so great that these companies would not go bankrupt so that they would continue to have the tax revenue. It goes without saying that if half the companies fall, we have quite a lot of people in line for work and a bit around the funeral homes. January-February as a reference point for this spring is bad in the sense that it is unequal in the sense that, for example, The January-February period of tourism in Lapland is quite different from the one here in the south. In my opinion, either we should divide the whole of last year's sales by 12 or we should take the April of the previous year and use new companies, which this does not reach, there is another measure. However, when we have constantly praised how the technological country Finland is and how well things are done here in these cases, I do not think it can be a problem that we do not see from the tax authorities' lists or from somewhere when the companies have been set up and when they are not. I am well aware of the direct payment and I would like to applaud the fact that there are indeed good packages here in the sense that we can quickly get this money out of the way. However, since this is where the opposition was specifically asked to take a stand on this and to be involved in this, I would like to say, in fact, that these previous development aids should not be linked to this issue at the moment — and, of course, there is a bit of a problem, but it would be hard to sell out alcohol. In these cases, it has now come to the attention of the restaurants that they have not received municipal support because they have a double entrepreneur, i.e. there are no employees, but there is a couple who try, and when they are not a sole entrepreneur, they have not been able to get into the municipal job since then. But I was getting a message from Lintilä today so that it might come up in tomorrow's discussions, but this was the kind of childhood that had come up with the job. There is a lot of talk here about just these restaurant and tourism cases and their pains,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u112	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the government for presenting a very important proposal. It is important that we now support the tourism and restaurant sector with all the means we have at our disposal. I agree with what has been said here in this Chamber that it is certainly appropriate for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to assess what is fair as far as this criterion of aid is concerned. Indeed, I would point out to Mr Laakso that even tourism companies in Lapland do not have the main months of January to February, but that season has come later. In other words, there could be a number of options to compare now between January and February 2020 or between the previous year's turnover as a whole and take the best of them to the company. So I really hope that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will assess this further. Like many other speakers, I am also blackmailing the government for these so-called free measures to support restaurants. As the Minister has already said in one reply, this is not a matter for your ministry, but the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health could assess the alcohol law and whether we would have the possibility of allowing this wider right of exit and home transport to restaurants. It now appears that there is a considerable amount of support for this procedure beyond the government-opposition limits. I would also, of course, like to point out here that we are now also going to have this general support for companies, which is extremely important. Its determination must be seen in what way and how it will then be distributed. For that, too, I would like to thank the government for the fact that all the stones have been turned and measures have been taken for companies struggling with the corona crisis. Thank you, government, and thank you, Minister, for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u113	Mr President! By decree of the government, restaurants were virtually closed no later than 4.4. The third amending budget before us allocates EUR 123 million to the loss of restaurants. The aid for restaurants is only about 13% of the turnover of the entire restaurant sector, while at the same time it accounts for around 20-30% of the cost of the restaurant sector — the sector, which is therefore almost entirely driven down. The compensation package contains many problem points. The focus is on small units, which is in the right direction, but how does the principle of equality fit into this when looking at larger companies? The Koronavirus treats the provinces of Finland differently. Would it have been, or would it still be reasonable to open restaurants gradually? Uusimaa and Helsinki are in a different position with regard to corona than many other provinces in Finland, and if the whole country is treated as a single area, there will be unnecessary spread of the virus in large cities and unnecessary financial difficulties for restaurants and diners in smaller localities. Such consideration of territoriality would be possible under the Emergency Act. In any case, the almost total stop of two months brings bankruptcies. At the same time, the buffers and own capital collected from businesses and restaurants have been eaten up. In addition, it should be noted that many restaurants closed their doors by themselves as early as mid-March, long before closing became mandatory. There is no compensation for the companies that have done so during this period. Even if restaurants were opened in June in some form, entrepreneurs are already in difficulty. It is entirely realistic that customers' restaurant behaviour will change. The whole restaurant, tourism and hotel sector is now in a permanent crisis. The good question is, will they ever return to the same level? When action begins in June, we can be sure that financial support is also needed for uplifting. The expenses are going to run in full form right away, but customers are unlikely to rush into restaurants. It may not be clear to anyone that the average months of January and February in restaurants are quite different from April-May, especially when it comes to seasonal restaurants, where some do not even have turnover in January-February. Concerns about how to distribute aid according to reduced sales are justified. For example, an entrepreneur who has tried everything he can despite a state of emergency would produce less than an entrepreneur who has raised his hands, so to speak, doing nothing. Mr President! The seasonal entrepreneur who runs the terrace restaurant said sadly: ‘Support is zero euro. “ The concerns of entrepreneurs about the conditions under which restaurants can be opened in June are particularly important to them. It is difficult to plan operations if entrepreneurs do not know the conditions under which they can operate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u114	Mr President! Restaurant support has finally come to the table. However, on the basis of many estimates and from what has been said here, it is very low compared to the need and it is not enough to save restaurants in difficulty. Many in this Chamber have also criticised the fact that January-February has been included as a comparison figure, when they are the quietest months of the restaurant and accommodation industry almost everywhere in Finland. Season restaurants would have opened their doors only in April-May. Many restaurants have the most workforce in the summer. The most sensible approach would certainly not have been to compare the best sales months, but perhaps an average could have been found between them or, as has been proposed, could have been compared to the previous year. It would be equally important to inform the restaurant and accommodation sector of what restrictions are coming and what needs to be taken into account when they are gradually opened up in June. Restrictions should be given in time to prepare for them. There are a lot of restaurants that cannot be opened because the restrictive measures are such that they do not make the operation profitable. Information is needed and would have been needed already. Mr President! About 80 per cent of Finnish hotels and spas are closed due to the corona crisis, although the restrictions imposed by the government do not directly apply to accommodation activities. PAM and MaRa have argued that, in order to save the hotel industry in Finland, State aid would be introduced to compensate hotels for the rent costs of a commercial dwelling, payroll and personnel costs and other fixed costs. In terms of quantity, this would mean a subsidy package of approximately EUR 160 million. From the beginning of June, an audience of up to 500 will be allowed to play football in a controlled manner. What about these summer events, concerts, village parties and markets that are so common in Finland? Should they not have the same rights to apply restrictions as to football matches and their audience? If this does not become at least information for the operators soon, there will be no time for events, even if they do, because it will take so long to process permits alone. Mr President! I would like to raise the subject of the trade fair. In practice, the turnover of trade fair companies and trade fair organisers has collapsed by 100 per cent and sales in the sector have been zero for two months. How does the government intend to address this issue of numerous companies and thousands of workers in various sectors?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u115	Mr President! This restaurant support here has caused a lot of discussion about how to define this compensation date, and when I think about the time of compensation for this year, which could be the right point, I will not find a month, which would be fine. I hope that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will be able to find the right time for this support to be given to these restaurant entrepreneurs as much as possible and as much as possible, and that they will find a common view of what would be fair for us to deal with these companies, especially the smaller and those vulnerable. I should like to thank the Government for bringing this proposal — and the Minister — to the House. It must be pointed out that the government has been accused of closing down these restaurants, that it was the decision of the Parliament. After all, on the basis of the Emergency Act, Parliament decided that restaurants should be closed to prevent the spread of this corona epidemic, and when you look at these results, how much has fallen victim to the corona epidemic in Finland and what the results have been, those measures must have been in the right direction. And now that we are about to free these things, let us hope that the right wisdom can be found so that we can go to the restaurant with good pleasure and keep those distances kept, and that in some way we can also support these restaurants in such a way that they can keep these partially deficient restaurants open. I therefore hope that the government will continue to give some guidelines on how to support these restaurants in the future, if these restrictions are to be maintained for an even longer time. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u116	Mr President! This restaurant support package has now been waiting for some time here in Parliament, and it is now on the table. Of course it is necessary, because society has decided to stop doing this, and therefore society must also compensate for the effects of ending it. However, the package is quite incomplete and covers only part of the problem, particularly in the case of seasonal restaurants that have been mentioned in several speeches. After all, they work and work in a very short period of time here in Southern Finland, mainly during the best summer — in the worst case in a few weeks, in the best case in a few months. If it were thought that restaurants could be open in some way from the beginning of June and yet large public events have been virtually banned until the end of July, then it will not actually start in the same way as usual from the point of view of its business. At least people do not move in the same way as they do during the usual summer, and many restaurant and event entrepreneurs are tied to these large public events, which in practice, mentally at least, have already been cancelled from this summer. The seasonal workers of kiosks and cafes have not been able to be hired, so there are no workers on whom to receive support. However, there are still costs in practice and the turnover will not materialise. In this respect, I believe that the committee should build up some sort of support mechanism to avoid the bankruptcy of companies in this sector. As far as the gradual opening of restaurants across the country is concerned, that would be a sensible solution, which I warmly support. The situation of infection is not the same everywhere, and the experience of the relevance of the restrictions and, in fact, compliance with their limitations depend on the nature of the infection situation in each region. I also support the right to alcohol out of restaurants that many have raised, although I wonder why such a right could not also be our normal practice, why it should be a state of emergency. No sensible thing would prevent the sale of alcohol from restaurants even in normal situations. Besides restaurants, there are other businesses that are practically closed by decision of society. For example, the travel agency sector, where business in practice stopped at the recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not to travel — all that was left was to get passengers back from the world. I am concerned about the situation in this area, and my concern was by no means reduced by Mr Harkimo in this Question Time by the Minister. The answer from Lintilä when the situation seemed to be that the government did not understand the whole problem. I would also like the government to pay attention to the travel agency sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u117	Mr President! I will continue to speak a little earlier on that support for re-employment. I think we talked about the same thing with Minister Haatainen, but in a slightly different way. Here, on page 14, paragraph 4, § ‘The conditions and amount of the grant of ‘In order to grant Here, on page 15, it is stated that this amount, EUR 2500, corresponds roughly to the average monthly salary of an employee in the catering sector. This was the one I brought up. In other words, with the sum of EUR 2500 in three months, it would be EUR 1000 in this formula that has been built on this model, but now that we have listened to the experts, it has come to the idea that the EUR 2500, which is the starting point for this calculation, is a little high. In other words, it could be lower, for example EUR 2000 or EUR 1700 or some statistical amount that would be considered fairer, because with this lower salary, too, it would be as if it were to be fully paid within three months and also EUR 1000 per person employed. Mr President, I would like to raise this point in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, where we will probably refine this formula even more. One thing that has also come to light in this re-employment is that there is a lot of temporary work in the restaurant sector, and this model is not quite able to take it fully into account. In other words, in some way we must consider this matter of reemployment, but at the time when this report on the closure of the sector was originally made, it was at that point in time that the restaurant and accommodation industry hoped that this aspect of employment would be rewarded or taken into account in some way, not just that aspect of reimbursement of costs. In that sense, although many people here have been barking and criticising this model and I see a lot of shortcomings in it, there is potential for development, and I think we can get along quite well with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u118	Mr President! Perhaps this situation is best described by a joensuu entrepreneur who is a restaurant entrepreneur who called me after the start of this crisis, that in the first two days he lost 89 percent of his turnover, and of course he was very, very worried about what would happen. Of course, the company had already cooled its own measures to the point of coping with this crisis, and when life gets easier and the disease gets easier and gets back to normal on that side, business will continue normally, and believe that such a day will come is still strong. But we should all remember and also note in our comments that the situation in Finland is now very serious. I'm sure no one would ever want to do this, even in the worst nightmares, and no one has ever been able to practice this before, so that we are faced with a whole new situation, a new threat. To this end, Parliament and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy are discussing this matter, this government proposal, and we need to find those sensible and good elements. There you have to think about — free ideas, good ideas must be worth the gold now. It would also be important to note that when the disease gets easier and the crisis starts to ease and we get back to normal economic conditions, then we should still have the companies that are still building this country, because the starting point, the only way to get through this is to keep as many companies as possible alive — probably no one will survive, but in a condition where we can continue to operate and hire the workforce back to work. The last thing I hope, Mr President, is that when we have different areas in Finland, there are New Land and different areas in terms of the presence of this virus — well, there are areas where there have been no sick people recently — so this kind of regional differentiation in this matter would be very valuable. In my opinion, the punishment for everyone on the principle that there is a lot of that disease in one area... People, however, are responsiblely capable of acting. They know how they themselves do this, because it is their own health and their own life that is at stake. I believe that people, every one of them, have so much responsibility that knowingly the disease is not spread and then carried out. That is why we decision-makers must assume our own responsibility to take account of these different areas that we find in Finland, our great, dear country, such as my own country, North Karelia or, for example, Uusimaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u119	Mr President! I am a little disappointed that Mr Kurvinen blames the people of the United States for throwing money around. The restaurant sector, like many other industries, is in complete trouble. We are now trying to save businesses and jobs. Sometimes it seems that we would do it better in a meeting than the government. Everyone can calculate the sad calculation of the cost to society if restaurants go bankrupt and many low-paid people lose their jobs. Now I am talking about both the financial and the mental bill. This model, which has been raised here today, for example, at the mouth of the representatives of the Assembly, also includes the needs of the players who are frequently asked to do so. In other words, if the compensation scheme were to cover all the companies in which the industry is a nutritious business, when the company has activities other than the catering business, the company would be compensated for its damage to the catering business. The company would have to find out to the authority the proportion of VAT sales in the catering business in a reliable way, and I believe that today will be a success. Such companies include hotels, spas, transport stations, bowling alleys, amusement parks, ski lifts and slopes companies, programme service and experience service companies, congresses, the trade fairs that have been asked for many times and their needs and companies that have retail services in addition to the catering business. In other words, there are solutions, and now that we are just using the spirit and the head here, we are moving forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u120	Mr President! This is a very serious situation, as Mr Hokkonen said a moment ago, but I do think that the government's economic support policy, where we first look, then sit down, has been quite the wrong way. The exceptional conditions came into force on 17 March, and we are still in a situation where we are considering how to support companies and through which platform. We have lost a great deal of time, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. It cannot be enough to explain the suddenness of the situation. This future situation, and now it is, that we, the Finns of Peru, expressed our concern long before the government took action, just as Mr Kankaanniemi, earlier in this Chamber, well illustrated. Moreover, it is not enough to have experience of similar situations in defence. Everyone in this room or outside this hall understands that if turnover falls to zero or almost zero, a cash crisis will automatically arise. At that time, no one can think of the development or creation of different projects as a matter of priority. Methods of operation and different platforms through regulations or other means should have been designed and implemented first. In the last two months, many things have had to be corrected. At the moment, the government is pushing the criteria for the distribution of the support package for restaurants. I do not know which experts or what kind of assistants the government has used, but it is strongly felt that the voice of entrepreneurs and now the last of the restaurant owners has gone unheard again. The confusion between the old aid already requested from Ely and Business Finland in relation to this support system for restaurants in terms of concepts gives rise to great confusion in the field. In general, the processing of aid has taken far too much time and the government’s ‘healthy businesses’ slogan is being rescued has remained very unclear. Who will define and how, which part of the companies will be bankrupted and which part will be able to continue? The addition promised in the government’s side sentence is ‘allencouraged’ at least to be the most grey area and an unclear promise. What does the government really mean? There has been a strong problem of leadership in the distribution and handling of all aids. The ball has been badly lost. All the time, we go backwards into the tree. At the moment, it is primarily a question of covering costs. Help must be targeted where the emergency is greatest. Many other countries, such as Germany, Sweden, Denmark and Norway, are well ahead of us in the distribution of business subsidies. It is true that every day costs a lot to society, and perhaps only a fourth to fifth of the companies will receive public support, and these will only be for a limited period of time. Mr President! Finnish Entrepreneurs are absolutely right to call for it to be of the utmost importance that the government provide general crisis support for all companies and soon at the latest. I hope so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u121	Mr President! The interest-rate crisis has required significant and heavy restrictions on the state, and this Parliament has unanimously been deciding on them for compelling reasons. The construction of this compensation model has been a very demanding whole — Parliament, according to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, required this reasonable compensation in the event of losses. However, it should now be stressed that it is not a question of compensation for operating profit by means of an obligation to pay damages, but rather of compensation for the fall in sales. The main principles of the Government's proposal, the rapid mass payment, the consideration of the strength of the player's field and this facilitation of reemployment are excellent, and I would like to thank the Minister for that. The mass payment can be achieved through direct information from the tax authorities and, at the same time, we can prevent the informal economy. It must be ensured that the aid is not directed towards companies that have no business at the beginning of this year. That is also why this review date for January-February is justified, but it is also clearly necessary to take into account the situation that prevailed during April-May 2019, precisely because of the specific characteristics and nature of the restaurant sector. There are two things that we can do together without having to abandon these principles. Compensation must be fair. We must ensure that an important SME field that employs more than 55% does not get caught up in relative numbers. The well-known and well-known fact is that, at the moment, the state must support SMEs, above all, to overcome the immediate crisis. There is a very broad parliamentary consensus on this also among the parliamentary parties. And now this support and compensation for the restaurant sector is exactly what has been needed so far, aid for fixed costs and costs. Mr President! This reemployment aid as its own element must be significant. In this respect, however, we must assess whether the condition of employment within this three-month time limit is a reasonable condition for these operators in a situation which is extremely uncertain and we do not know to what extent restrictions may be re-established. As far as these other subsidies are concerned, it is reasonable to really assess and avoid duplication of aid, but to insist that it is the firms that have done the development work that will not then be excluded from this separate sector of the restaurant sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u122	Mr President! As a result of the interest crisis, a compensatory aid package has been promised to restaurants closed by the government. This proposal by the government, which is now under discussion, to support restaurants and restaurants and to compensate for restrictions on their activities, has been long awaited here. That is what the restaurants have been waiting for, and that is what the parliament has been waiting for, and I wonder what has been going on for so long. I would like to say quite frankly that this government proposal is a torso and it is not enough as such. The compensation proposed by the government is about one third of what is the general perception of losses in the sector, i.e. too little. It's a poor compensation model. It is based on the wrong time, i.e. the turnover of January-February, when a more correct reference point would be, for example, April-May last year. The model is also unfair to companies of different sizes. Large and small restaurants must not be placed against each other. Further: the plight of companies that have started since last May must also be taken into account. Restaurants other than those operating in the form of companies should also be eligible for support. For example, many popular restaurants may act as an association. Staff restaurants should also be covered by compensation. It must be ensured that those restaurants and restaurants that have already received pre-explanatory or development money from Business Finland or Ely Centre should not, however, be allowed to intervene. The aid is also for those who have developed their activities. Representative Kurvinen here invited the opposition to correct and replace the government's proposals. We will be happy to make a good and comprehensive presentation to the government. Today, the Coalition Party announced its proposal for a support system for the restaurant sector, and we are offering this proposal to the general public. However, we must ask the representatives of the government parties what kind of internal conflicts you have there in the government when you have not been able to make a proposal on such a serious matter and on an issue that Parliament requires. Mr President! It is important for restaurants, like other companies, to be able to function normally as quickly as possible. When the opening hours of restaurants are allowed, the opening hours of restaurants should normally be allowed without restrictions. Limiting opening hours or the number of customers to be admitted will lead to an unreasonable situation. A nutritious business would then have to bear almost the full cost, but the possibility of doing business would therefore be severely restricted. Thus, when restaurants are opened, they will also be opened and no new restrictions imposed on them. Mr President! I hope that colleagues in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will also put this government proposal in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u123	Mr President! Finally, I would like to highlight Mr Multala's excellent legislative initiative, on which there has been a certain degree of consensus on every side of the Chamber, and in that sense I would like to see the matter taken forward, namely the right to sell out restaurants. This is a small measure capable of creating hope for the future. Less often I agree with Mr Mäkelä, but now I have to admit that I agree with him that perhaps this law could be something that would continue in the future, so that there would not have to be that deadline, but that would be a fine change for good. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u124	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Hatainen for having been able to listen to this occasional debate throughout the debate. All in all, this is, in a way, the fourth separate tool that has been built to support companies, and then there will be these problems, overlaps with others, and once there is the fifth business tool that is in preparation for Lintilä, these direct business subsidies, the same debate will continue. It cannot be avoided that development grants and these direct payments will then be examined. Another interesting thing that has been said about the opposition is that this has been prepared in a hurry. On the other hand, three or four weeks have been shouted out here that where the law is staying, so that this is a bit contradictory. And the third is that this economy has now been stressed, but yes, here I am telling you two times when business subsidies come, and then additional funding from the right has come into these packages. It's interesting to follow and listen to this. All in all, this third amending budget and this package of restaurants has not been easy to prepare, 123 million are now these distribution criteria, and difficult in view of the overall nature of the sector. But I think these elements are good: compensation for the restrictions on operations, there are their own limitations. In particular, this support for employment at the start of operations is good and, in my opinion, it does not exclude seasonal restaurants, if I understand correctly, i.e. they obviously have the opportunity to receive this EUR 1000 support when work starts. Of course, that's what the minister must be... This would be important and would make it easier for these seasonal nutritional conditions. In this area, no matter what model is built, there will certainly always be interlopers. It is probably not possible for this to satisfy the entire restaurant industry, and of course these seasonal restaurants are in this most difficult position. The criteria, the speed of payments, the mass payments are good, as is overcompensation in a way. And, as the Minister said, it is important to target SMEs, the majority of which are in the restaurant sector. There are a lot of problems with this package. These SMEs, in particular in the restaurant sector, have a lot of very short-lived businesses, and [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u125	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Hatais for the fact that you are still here to listen to this speech. I would like to thank everyone for a good debate, but I am a little surprised that the opposition has spoken about the fact that restaurants or entrepreneurs have not been consulted on this matter, or that the government has lost the ball. A good proposal is now coming to Parliament, and it has also been requested that Parliament bring further comments to this. I am also surprised at the fact that in previous speeches there has been no support for restaurants or tourism entrepreneurs. Well, restaurant companies have also been able to apply for aid according to the size of the company either from Business Finland or from the direction of the business. But now it is this proposal to make up for the restrictions on action. This reference period for aid has been discussed, this January-February. This has caused a lot of criticism, since the time is usually rather quiet in the restaurant industry. At least I have received a lot of contacts, and restaurant entrepreneurs have asked whether this support job could not be made as simple as possible: the result of last year, 19, the financial statements, and even if 50,000 had been made profit, it would be divided up by 12 months and then multiplied by 3 months, that is, these months of crisis. This would be a fairly simple and fair support system. That is the idea I was going to bring to this debate, Mr President. I know and believe that I am sure this house will eventually be able to bring good proposals to Parliament's decision. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u126	Chairman! First of all, briefly to this package of aid. Indeed, Parliament required that, given that these restrictive measures are directed specifically and only directly at this restaurant activity, this compensation can now only legally be targeted at it, but it is quite true that, at the moment, a large number of other operators, in principle those already engaged in accommodation activities, are at least indirectly, if not directly, equally large or at least close to the same problems. Of course, a firm wish is that: The preparation of general support from Lintilä also takes account of these operators, who are now unable to benefit from this compensation in the restaurant sector. But really for this criticism now: I agree with Mr Eskelinen's point of view. Indeed, it has now been over a month since the restaurants were closed down, and it has been a big emergency that we should now get these support mechanisms for compensation as quickly as possible. In view of the fact that it takes about a year and a half for the legislative work to be carried out in a normal procedure, now that the government is able to present us with this compensation logic and model within a few weeks, I think it is an excellent achievement. On the other hand, if all these details, which are now rightly raised in this Chamber this evening, had remained here in the cabinet of the minister to exercise for weeks to come, it would certainly not have been in the interests of us restaurant entrepreneurs. In other words, I think that this option, which we have now received in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, is a very good solution, so this type of argument and criticism of the fact that the government is now giving rise to the responsibility for preparing this compensation package for Parliament's inability to do so is a little beneath me. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will be able to continue to deal with this issue tomorrow, and I believe that, by consensus, the government and opposition parties will certainly find a solution which will perhaps in part make some adjustments, but this is a very good basis and it will be very good to move on. Thank you to the Minister for very demanding preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u127	Mr President! We are now in the middle of a fourth business subsidy, i.e. business support for the catering sector, and tomorrow there will be a fifth business subsidy, that is, this general subsidy, which has been being prepared for some time. It is quite clear that restaurants are in an exceptional situation, as has been said many times in this Chamber today, just because the restaurant sector has been restricted by this separate legislation, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also noted. However, for example, tourism operators, service industries and exporting companies are in the same difficult situation that the interest rate has taken away the customer base, and it is clear that this debate should also be extended to other companies that have suffered significantly over the course of the interest rate. It is not possible for everyone to receive separate aid, and it is obvious that this general aid must be such that it serves businesses extensively. I think it has already become quite clear in this Chamber that there is agreement among the government parties that this law needs corrections. It has been brought to Parliament on a fast schedule, as requested and as it should have been, and I thank the Minister for having it here now. I do not think there will be any problem in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy with regard to these remedies, as has been proposed today. I personally feel that this government proposal specifically needs changes in relation to the timing of this determination of support, which has already been raised today. Restaurants are often seasonal, and January and February are the poorest months in terms of income formation, which is why attention should be paid to them. The second point is, of course, this duplication of aid, which must be looked at, but not all subsidies can be duplicated by a restaurant company, so that there must be some specificity in it too. However, perhaps something that has been overlooked in this debate: I think speed is now a good asset. When we consider these changes, we should be able to concentrate more on where we can find those common lines in this Chamber, rather than in this Chamber, so that we in the Committee on Economic Affairs and in this House as a whole can bring this law forward unanimously and in a timely manner, as everyone's wishes certainly are. One thing is that restrictions are lifted, another is that these subsidies are paid, and then the third is that confidence is restored in restaurants and people in Finland dare to use the services of restaurants, spend on the services we are used to spending in the past. We should work together on these three issues so that we can speed them up as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u128	Mr President! The restaurant rescue package under consideration is expected. This model allows for a reasonable and moderately rapid compensation. Unemployment in the restaurant sector is growing rapidly and employment in the sector is characterised by part-time and zero-hour employment, which already exposes workers in the sector to a difficult position to maintain their livelihood. Restaurant, tourism and leisure services employ up to 150,000 people in Finland, a significant proportion of whom are women, young people or people with an immigrant background. A rescue package for restaurant companies is necessary to prevent a wave of bankruptcy and unemployment for tens of thousands of people. It is really great that employment is at the heart of the proposal and is one of the prerequisites for obtaining assistance. I have also wondered whether it could be possible to lower the tax on electricity in the mara sector at industrial level. After all, it is a major export industry — Finland’s exports to the world. Has such an option been considered anywhere, for example, from the EU's business support perspective and would it be fair between companies in the sector, i.e. which tourism companies would benefit and how much? On the other hand, the simpler option is this reduction in VAT. However, all stones must be turned and the options examined. We must not lose these jobs and employers in tourism and the restaurant sector. After all, it would be an advantage for the tourism industry if Finnish tourists were to travel in Finland and travel across borders would be reduced. At present, Finland is a net importer in tourism, and this could be a significant turning point. But, of course, it requires that tourist destinations be opened up and that even in Finland it is possible to travel again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u129	Mr President! Restaurant support has finally been brought before Parliament, unfortunately very late and inadequate. [Department : More late than later! ] I am well aware that normal procedures have not been used to prepare this law, and I am well aware that this bill has been prepared in a hurry compared to normal, but I too am surprised at the fact that it was not possible to incorporate such a brief consultation into the drafting of this law. It could probably have avoided the things that are now being developed in Parliament in this proposal. Now this criticism of this restaurant support has not only come from the opposition, as Mr Eskelinen pointed out, but the government itself has said to Parliament that this is a proposal, correct it in Parliament. Between the lines, I understand that such a message is based on the premise that this model is not entirely satisfactory in the government either — please correct me if I have misunderstood. These matters to be corrected in Parliament or at least to be considered: I myself would like to highlight the time when aid is determined, which has clearly been mentioned here. Secondly, I would like to raise the question of the calculation of the rebate. In other words, when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered it necessary to provide for a reasonable compensation for the losses caused by the closure of restaurants, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs specifically referred to the fact that this ban on restrictions on fundamental rights comes very suddenly, and it may be that there are other costs for restaurants which have not been able to react because of the suddenness of the situation and which have not been flexible in practice. I understand, of course, that farm rents, Ivi and electricity charges, for example, are such inflexible costs, but in practice there may have been other costs. For example, I would like to raise the question of how quickly these layoffs can be made in practice. Thirdly, the question of whether this aid should be treated differently for restaurants of different sizes. I agree with what has been said that this aid should not distort competition,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u130	Thank you. — Then Minister Haatainen, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-12-ps-71.u131	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate. In almost all the speeches, first of all, it revolved around how quickly or slowly this presentation has come. The government proposal was completed from the Ministry in a month or more, and now it's here in the hall. It could certainly have brought this more quickly, but it could have been that there are more gaps here than there is now, the basis for this determination, the basis on which this compensation should be assessed. But now, with a few words about why this time in-depth official work has started from the fact that this criterion has been adopted for January and February. In particular, the Ministry of Finance has held onto it, and I share the concern that has arisen from it. This is correct, i.e. it is based on companies that really exist. There will then be as recent information as possible on how to discharge the tax obligations, i.e. VAT will then be charged for the first and second months of this year, and there will be information about the scope, functionality or inactivity of the operation, and it will be fully up-to-date — we know that these restaurants exist. We don't have any information about it, we can't get out of the tax office's files that... We have no idea if anyone has decided to do so, it will remain in the register. In other words, the risk of this support entering the fault target is as low as possible in this model. Nor does it allow tax evaders to sneak in, so this is also a model that is in keeping with the shadow economy. And here are also, in time, all companies involved, including those new companies that just started. These companies have been born at the turn of the year or at the end of last year. Then, of course, there is also the fact that, if these changes were to be made, I think that the committee should now bear in mind that this automation is a very important principle here. This is the first time that this kind of automation model is made. I hope that we will also see to it that these matters of correctness are taken into account. And, of course, what you can think about: you can also think about the point of view that, for example, the compensation coefficient would be raised to the extent that it will then take account of this possible early-year effect. Of course, it is true that a little lower is the activity in many restaurants in January. Then again, Mr Eskelinen asked how this sum will now be paid, whether these seasonal nutritional conditions will receive this wage subsidy, whether it will be possible to pay it. That is the correct observation, because this salary is from February, and that is what we are thinking about. This has now been observed here that it needs to be checked, and we are looking for a solution here. Then there has been a call for all companies to be treated on the same basis. This compensation is obtained by a natural and legal person and the model is completely balanced regardless of the form of entrepreneurship. But when it comes to this cutter, this cutter in compensation, it is true that if there is a company with an average sale of more than EUR 1 million between January and February, then this amount of compensation will fall from 15% to 5% for the excess of that million. The reason for this is that there is a desire to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises receive reasonable remuneration, and therefore larger companies will cut this aid out of this model. This is a choice that has been sought to side with small and medium-sized enterprises because it has been considered that these larger companies will then have the volume and the strength to negotiate different fixed costs better than these small and medium-sized enterprises. I hope that Parliament too will then adhere to this 5% cutter and insist that this payment is also smooth and fast and that the basis of the model that is being made remains this way. But about this conversation about how to get seasonal restaurants into this now, I'm open to conversation. That is where I noticed that the chairman of the committee said that it was up to the committee adviser to do this. Officials of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and certainly officials of the Ministry of Finance are:
