ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u2	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u5	Mr President! Everyone has the right to life and personal freedom, integrity and security. Paramedics, firefighters and rescue service contract staff work for the safety of citizens and society. Unfortunately, they are increasingly experiencing threats of violence or direct violence in their work. Over 90 per cent of paramedics report having experienced threats and violence in their work and one in four had been assaulted. Sixty-two per cent of people in the fire department say that their own fire department has encountered a threat of violence at work or personally. The aim of these professionals is to help and save lives. The endangerment of their valuable work is an attack on those in need, an attack on the helpers and an attack on an organised society. I support Mr Rantanen's initiative. I've also signed it. The amendment must take its form or form part of a broader legislative review. A similar change has been made in many other countries. Anyone who opposes or violently opposes a person in a medical position must be condemned in the same way as is provided for against an official or violently opposed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u6	Mr President! This initiative is very welcome, and in fact last season we tried and tried to make progress, but the Justice Department officials at the time said that they did not want to do this kind of point-by-point legislation, but very much wider. Well, maybe that's the case, but I think we need to get this thing sorted out this season. In fact, 14 years ago, in 2006, I understand that this is the first time that firefighters and rescuers — police officers on the side, but rescuers on the side — were stoned in this nearby VR lay, and that was, in my opinion, a revolutionary thing. I know the case a little too well. And now violence against all the authorities, but also against paramedics, has exploded, and that is totally unacceptable, because they are going to help, not, as police officers often do, to use coercion against people — rescuers help. And criminalisation is really important; it is a good preventative measure. You have to remember, it's only one way, it has to be done. On top of that, however, as Mr Rantanen has said here, attention must be paid to the training of safety equipment — which has been given, but not sufficiently, to the way in which it is placed in the places of duty. You have to teach you how to read the customer's speechless communication, and when something happens, you have to take care of the aftercare. This is an overall package, and it must be taken seriously. This bill is one way of doing so, and that is a good starting point. All in all, I really hope — and we know that there is very little chance of success in the legislative initiative of an individual Member of Parliament — that the government and the Minister of Justice will now take action and will be happy to do so, even if they do so with a rapid timetable for this point-by-point reform and then do it much later when it takes time. There are doctors, social services, teachers and many others who do well to have the same protection, but paramedics are at present one of the most in need.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u7	Mr President! Here came a very expert and good speech from Mr Tolvanen from the opposition party's assembly, and I thought, from the point of view of the government, that this matter should be commented on. I would like to thank Mrs Ranta for an excellent legislative initiative. I fully agree with that idea. I have talked to a lot of paramedics and I have also talked to representatives of other medical staff, and I also know the situation of rescuers, and it is sad that our society has developed to such a point that exclusion and the wrong kind of erosion of authority and the loss of respect for those who help people have led to an increasing threat of violence in nursing work. The Minister of Justice is not present at the moment, but I can say for myself:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u10	Mr President! It is great that there is support for this in this Chamber, but as has been said here in my own speech and in Mr Tolvanen's speech, there is one piece of legislation that should be brought to an end quickly, but the other one would be — and I make a serious appeal to the government parties — that the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health should set up a national project to deal with the issue of protective equipment, statistics and education. They are also very important in this preventive work. I would like you to take this message to your own groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u11	Mr President! While it may seem that the Minister of Justice is still listening, I would really like to bring the professional's point of view to which Mr Kurvinen referred. For 32 years, I've been a fireman and a paramedic in this business. The world really has changed. If, in the old days, the so-called good drunks were predictable in their conduct, today’s different-looking users of substances are indeed unpredictable, and this bill, which has already been put forward in the past, is indeed desirable to go all the way to the finish line. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u12	Mr President! One cannot fail to support this bill and not to see it as a necessary and timely task. At least I will not vote against it if this is where the House will end up at the stage of the report — hopefully. Although we represent a different political orientation, at this point I do not believe that there will be that political game in this Chamber, and at least here I want to wash my hands of it. I hope that this will be wider, because I know people who are in an official service saving children in situations of custody. There's a lot of potential for that kind of aggressive situation. There are consequences for stabbing a police officer, but a social worker who is on an official duty, an official duty, is under different protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u13	Mr President! Mr Rantanen's bill is certainly to be welcomed. Its continuation will be decided by the Legal Committee, and hopefully the Legal Committee, chaired by the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, will take it on board. Of course, it is only a single bill from the representative, but, as has already been said here, I do appeal to the government. During the last term in the Administrative Committee these issues were ignored and have certainly been ignored in several committees and, as Mrs Huru and Mr Tolvanen have pointed out, the situation has changed. Various unforeseen situations are commonplace around Finland, there are rescue operations in an emergency vehicle, going to an old people's house, apartment building or very different places, not to mention demonstrations and other places. Let us hope that the bill will get its dues processed and that we will also be quick to move things forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u14	One last reply to Mrs Merelle, then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u15	Thank you, Mr President. It is indeed a matter for us in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Now that I listen to people in this Chamber, everyone praises this, but I wonder that the bill has only received 44 signatures. After all, it is the practice in this House that, in order for the committee to take the initiative, it should be signed by a hundred Members of Parliament. Of course, the committee can also deviate from this. But now, in fact, I propose to Mr Rantanen that you collect the signatures of those who agree, if not everyone has signed, when there are probably 60 people here too, so that we can immediately go to the Committee on Legal Affairs and I, as chairman of the committee, have a back seat to say that there are more than a hundred names here. No one here seems to object, but no names have been found at that point. Now is the opportunity for those who are missing to sign.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u16	Back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u17	Mr President! We in this Parliament must ensure that those people who work to safeguard our health are safe themselves. We parliamentarians here in Parliament are safe in our work, within thick protective walls and under constant supervision by security officers. We'll be fine. It's too easy to forget what professionals are going through in their everyday lives. Let's just imagine ourselves as a paramedic for a moment. The alarm's coming. You're driving to the suburbs of town. The yard in the row house looks messy. Your job is to go in when a confused young man comes out. There is a person inside who should be helped, but he is clearly threatening the effects of the drugs, even though he is in need of help. Imagine being physically much bigger and stronger than you. You're under threat, but you have a duty to help him. Mr President! We need to change the law so that anyone who uses or threatens to use violence against a person in a paramedical position must be sentenced to a minimum of four months and no more than four years for the violent opposition of a person in a paramedical position. This is the legal amendment we can now make with the bill submitted by Mrs Mari Rantanen, the representative of the Finnish People's Party. Just three days ago, Tehy, the Finnish Association for Emergency Services, the Finnish Firearms Association and the Finnish Association of Contract Fireworks published a statement in which they all supported this bill. They know what they're talking about. They represent the field of emergency care on a wide scale. I understand that the government has a lot of important projects of its own in the world, but I would like these emergency care and rescue professionals to be taken seriously and prioritised. As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I fully support this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u18	Mr President! The initiative proposes to include in the Criminal Code a new provision on the violent opposition of a person in a first-aid position. I very much welcome this legislative initiative, as the current practice puts paramedical staff at a disadvantage with many other actors performing a public task. For the moment, the abuse of a person working in emergency care is only punishable as an assault offence. From the experience of violence and threat, a wealth of information has been gathered from the field of emergency care by organisations and rescue services. In 2018, the Finnish Association for Emergency Services conducted a survey, where more than 90 per cent of the respondents reported that they had experienced threats and violence in their work and one in four had been assaulted. These situations have increased by around 15 to 25 % per year. Various organisations have been pushing for a change to the Criminal Code for several years. Emergency services help people in need and save lives. It is unreasonable that, when they are subjected to threats and violence, only fines should be imposed. Mr President! By amending the Criminal Code, we have the opportunity to improve the safety of paramedics who are doing valuable work. It is particularly important for the value of the work that penalties for violence against paramedics should be brought into line with the violent opposition of an official.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u19	I give the floor to Mr Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-14-ps-7.u20	Mr President! Many very good and important speeches have been heard in the Chamber, and my warm thanks to Mr Rantanen for this important initiative. The paramedics are the everyday angels that keep us alive in a tight spot. They must not have to do their demanding work, fearing for their own lives. A situation in which they must be able to make decisions that protect the lives of another person in seconds and concentrate on doing their job well must not be a situation in which they must be afraid of what is going to happen to them. By amending the penal code, we have the opportunity to send out a signal that we appreciate the valuable work of the paramedics and that we want to transform the culture of increased violence against them into a culture of permanent respect. It is indeed high time that this matter were changed.
