ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 2/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Chairman of the Committee, represented by Mr Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u2	Mr President! The proposal proposes to adopt a law on the temporary reduction of the employer's contribution under the Workers' Pensions Act by 2.6 percentage points between 1 May and 31 December 2020. It is proposed to reduce the compensatory part of the annual contribution for pension funds and pension funds employees in accordance with the Pension Act and the compensatory part of the annual contribution under the Maritime Pensions Act accordingly. The increase in technical provisions resulting from the Mak-su reduction will be compensated by an increase in the employer's premium between 2022 and 2025 and by an increase in the annual contribution compensation component in pension funds, pension funds and seamen's pension fund. During the period of the reduction, occupational pension insurance companies may not distribute any customer credits. The proposal is based on the presentation by the social partners on 18 March 1920 of measures taken by the government to safeguard business, employment and livelihood in the context of the economic crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic. According to the organisations, as a result of the corona virus epidemic, Finland’s economy has fallen into a situation that endangers business conditions, employment and people’s livelihoods. The temporary reduction in the employer's contributions is one part of the package of measures proposed by the organisations. The Government decided on a package of measures to be implemented on 20 March 1920. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers the proposed amendments to be necessary and appropriate and advocates the adoption of a legislative proposal without amendment. Coronavirus pandemic and the resulting exceptional conditions have a significant impact on the Finnish economy. As a result of exceptional circumstances, business opportunities have been significantly reduced. The number of layoffs has increased rapidly since the first half of March and some companies have also had to rely on layoffs. According to the latest data, by 1.4.2020 the number of new laid-off persons and the number of new unemployed persons was around 58,000, due to the corona virus situation. The co-operation negotiations launched by the Corona virus situation included some 333,000 employees by the time of yesterday, 2.4.2020. The Committee welcomes the fact that a fixed-term reduction in occupational pension contributions can contribute to facilitating the position of private sector employers in a challenging situation as a result of the corona virus pandemic. The Committee stresses that the reduction in contributions is a moderate measure in proportion to the total amount of contributions for occupational pensions. According to the proposal, the reduction in the employee’s pension pension contribution will reduce the contribution revenue of EUR 1.05 billion in 2020, which is approximately seven per cent of the total contribution revenue if it is assumed that the impact of the interest-bearing crisis will reduce the wages and salaries sum by 2.5 percentage points compared to 2019. The reduction is also intended to be compensated by interest payments between 2022 and 2025. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u3	Mr President! I would like to thank the committee and, in this context, the government for taking swift action. Of course, this is a very significant amount and a significant contribution, but given the pace at which Finland's economy is now shrinking - Etla has estimated that Finland's economy would shrink by up to 5% this year, the Bank of Finland's estimate is similar, and the risks for a deeper fall are obvious - even though such extensive, necessary and necessary measures are now being taken, it seems that even more massive measures must be taken to help these companies, specifically to promote healthy businesses as if they were wintering over this crisis, so that we do not permanently destroy jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u4	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 3/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Chairman of the Committee, represented by Mr Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u5	Mr President! The aim of the proposal is to give shipowners in financial difficulties in the maritime sector the flexibility to pay pension contributions under the Maritime Pensions Act. According to the proposal, the Maritime Pension Fund may transfer the due date of the pension contribution for a maximum period of three months at the request of the shipowner and for reasons of particular importance. The proposal is based on the presentation by the social partners on 18 March 1920 of measures taken by the government to safeguard business, employment and livelihood in the context of the economic crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic. The proposed amendment applies only to the determination of the due date of statutory occupational pension contributions in the maritime sector, but the amendments to other private sector employment pension laws corresponding to the proposed amendment are implemented by lower-level provisions and provisions in the employment pension contributions law in accordance with these laws. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers the aim of the proposal and the proposed amendment to be necessary and appropriate and supports the adoption of the draft law. However, the committee is proposing a technical correction to the conclusion of the draft law. In fact, the word 'temporary' has been added to the introductory phrase. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u6	Mr President! The aim of this proposal is now to support shipowners in a difficult economic situation and in an important position. About 90 per cent of Finland’s foreign trade is transported by sea. And when the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health knows this area very well, I ask: has there been any discussion within the government on the possible abolition of the fairway charge? That would be one such economic recovery measure, which could also facilitate this sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u7	Mr President! This is where we went quite a bit outside the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but it is true what Mr Räsänen said that it could be one possibility. And it is, of course, a matter for the government to decide whether such a means is to be used. And as we know, it has already been made public. But I say this as chairman of the committee that this is not my area of competence, but let us see what is in it. I do believe that the government is aware of this and they will decide it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u8	The 4th item of the order of business will now be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 4/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — — — — Chairman of the Committee Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u9	Mr President! The proposal proposes that a new provision be added to the Unemployment Fund Act on the way in which the cashier is to attend the meeting. The new article would provide for the possibility of remote participation in a cashier's meeting. This increase would be made for the sake of clarity and would allow a cashier's meeting to be organised using technical tools, for example in the context of widespread infectious disease. The law is proposed to enter into force as soon as possible. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the committee considers it necessary and appropriate. The committee is in favour of adopting the draft law without amendment, and this committee's report is also unanimous. Mr President! If I may, I would say in this context that, when these unemployment funds are mentioned here, this change here is only technical, but we will probably have a bigger proposal in this Chamber next week in connection with the Unemployment Protection Act, where unemployment funds play a very important role, considering that they will have to do a lot of manual work on layoffs and unemployment security, as well as Kela. And I think that next week we should have a debate in this Chamber on this substantive aspect of how the unemployment funds will be able to cope with the huge number of these applications.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u10	Mr President! In this regard, the chairman of the committee pointed out that changes will have to be made in the future in these other areas. I think that there must be a hurry at the moment and it is good that we are now creating the conditions for remote meetings. Meetings are increasing, and in many other sectors too, distance meetings are increasing and traffic is decreasing. And what I have noticed about these remote meetings is that much more time will be left to deal with the matter when it fails to pass from one place to another. And it's good this time, too, when the corona spins all over the place, that people move less with each other. This is indeed a welcome reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u11	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 3/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Let us go to the general debate opened by the chairman of the committee, Mr Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u12	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on the Government's proposal to temporarily restrict the enforcement of the fine and the unconditional prison sentence is under discussion. This is a proposal to postpone, for a maximum period of up to 31 July, the commencement of prison sentences pending the execution of a sentence for the purpose of the Corona virus. I would like to stress that these are people who are awaiting punishment on their own, and the Court has therefore not imprisoned them either because of the nature of the crime or otherwise because of the conditions laid down by law. The proposal has been submitted to Parliament on 1.4. and has been dealt with as an urgent matter. However, the committee listened carefully to the experts and carefully evaluated the proposal. The committee accepted the proposal but tabled one amendment on the regrouping of the sentence. In any case, the committee's report is unanimous. The motion postpones the initiation of the execution of the prison sentence in respect of sentenced persons who are awaiting imprisonment and who have therefore not been ordered by the Court of Justice to be detained. This change does not mean premature release of prisoners already in prison. Furthermore, the enforcement of the prison sentence will not be abolished entirely and penalties will not be allowed to lapse. The aim is to temporarily reduce the number of prisoners in order to safeguard the health of prisoners and prison staff and the proper and safe execution of sentences during the corona virus epidemic. In some countries, as a result of the corona virus situation, prisoners have been released prematurely, which the Committee on Legal Affairs does not consider to be a good solution. The Legal Committee considers a reduction in the number of prisoners by temporarily limiting the number of prisoners taken away from prison in a more acceptable way to combat the problems caused by the corona virus as soon as possible. I would like to raise a few key points from the committee's report. The filling rate of closed prisons is currently high. Closed prisons and their high level of filling are particular risks for the spread of the epidemic, which in practice find it difficult to keep sufficient distance from other people, for example. Proactive efforts have been made to reduce the risk of spreading in prisons, including through guidelines and other measures. In addition, the Ministry of Justice has issued a decree under the Prisons Act on the basis of which a fine is not imposed on conversion sentences and prison sentences of up to six months. This year. The aim of the regulation is to reduce the number of prisoners. It is estimated that the number of prisoners will be temporarily reduced by around 100 to 200 prisoners. However, according to the Government’s proposal, these means do not adequately safeguard the adequacy and safety of implementation in the event of the spread of the virus. In this proposal, it is estimated that this amendment will thus allow a temporary reduction in the number of prisoners from 300 to 400, that is to say, significantly more than the current situation. According to a report received by the committee, the epidemic has not so far caused problems in prisons, but experience in other countries has shown that the situation may get worse very quickly and that in some countries, as I said earlier, prisoners have been released prematurely. The Committee on Legal Affairs believes that this situation should be avoided in every way. With regard to the early release of prisoners, the proposal to reduce the number of prisoners by temporarily limiting the number of prisoners to be taken into prison can be considered as acceptable in principle and a better way of combating the spread of the virus. However, in its report, the committee asked the Ministry of Justice and the Criminal Sanctions Agency to explain the means other than those set out in the Government's proposal. For example, it is not possible to put new premises into prison use or to take out non-residential facilities in prisons on a timely basis, according to the survey. We have also been told that the Criminal Sanctions Agency is seeking to increase the current use of controlled test freedom, but the threshold for the use of controlled test freedom should not be lowered too low. This is a good thing. Furthermore, according to a report received by the committee, it is not possible to increase the transfer of foreign convicted persons to their own countries in the current situation, as mobility between and within countries is significantly restricted. After an overall assessment of the proposal and the additional explanations it has received, the Committee on Legal Affairs has decided to consider the proposal as the best available means of ensuring, as soon as possible, the important objectives underlying the proposal. In this assessment, the committee has given particular importance to the fact that it is not a question of a reduction in the number of prisoners being released, an early release of prisoners in prison, but a restriction on those who enter prison under exceptional circumstances and for a maximum period of four months. For these reasons, the committee has considered that the proposed regulation is not a problem either in terms of general law or the credibility of the criminal justice system. The committee received a report from the Ministry that, last year, around 27% of these persons, known as self-registered persons, had been involved in drunken driving, property offences, and violence offences of around 18%. The focus of the offences covered is on less serious crimes. The court may continue to decide on detention under the law on coercive measures. This provision allows the court to assess whether the sentenced person is entitled to be held in prison or to wait for the execution of the judgment to be carried out on leave. Thus, the Court of Justice has already made an assessment in its judgment that there is no risk of self-declaration, i.e. waiting for the execution of the judgment to take place. The government's proposal gave very little justification for why the law was proposed to be in force until the end of July. However, there is no clear information on the duration of the epidemic and, in any event, it is important that the capacity of prisons is secured during and after the worst stage of the epidemic. In view of these considerations, the committee considers it acceptable that restrictions should be imposed until 31 July 2020 at the latest. However, in terms of proportionality or equality of sentenced persons, it is not justified that the possible initiation of the enforcement of penalties should be considered by the enforcement authorities as proposed in the Government’s proposal. That is why the committee is proposing a revision of the article so that the execution of the sentence must take place earlier if the restriction of enforcement is no longer necessary to prevent infectious disease after the end of exceptional circumstances. Then there are a few points: the committee felt that the situation and spread of the epidemic in prison conditions should be monitored and acted upon and taken action as quickly as possible. It is appropriate to prepare for the worsening of the Corona virus epidemic, as the duration is uncertain. The committee considers it important to examine the possibilities for new prison facilities. Efforts should also be made to increase the number of prison staff, for example by training new staff. In this connection, the committee also notes that the current decentralised prison network can be considered a strength in the fight against the epidemic. Finally, the committee also considers it important that the transfer of sentenced persons to their countries of origin should continue as soon as possible after the restrictions on freedom of movement in connection with the virus epidemic between neighbouring countries are lifted.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u13	Mr President! Throughout our entire social system, a large-scale crisis has had to take precautionary action in all state activities. Prisons in Finland are no exception to this rule either. If the corona were to spread into prisons, the consequences would be undesirable for everyone. As a temporary solution, the Government proposes that no action be taken to initiate the enforcement of the conversion or unconditional imprisonment of the fine and that no new registration periods be imposed on it. The arrangement would last until the end of July. This measure would safeguard the ability of prisons to cope with the corona crisis in such a way as to maintain the safety of staff. This solution is essential both for the security of society and for justice. The worst option would be to allow the corona to spread to prisons, and as a result, prisons would have to be closed down or prisoners released prematurely, as has been seen from other countries and as the chairman of the committee, Leena Meri, has already told us. In practice, that would mean that the prisoners who committed terrible acts would survive with shorter sentences than, for example, rapes or murders. With the length of sentences in Finland already at a low level, a further reduction in the duration of sentences would be an insult to the victims of crime. Mr President! The best solution to this situation is, therefore, that the execution of judgments should be postponed temporarily, so that the pressure on the early release of prisoners would not arise. It should also be noted that the prisoners affected by this moratorium are still free at the moment. For example, detectives suspected of serious crimes would remain in custody. In practice, therefore, as a result of this interim solution, some condemned people would only temporarily prolong the waiting period for implementation. At the moment, the courts can decide whether it is necessary for the sentenced person to be imprisoned immediately or whether the sentenced person can wait for the judgment to be executed free of charge. Thus, even in exceptional circumstances, the security of society would not be compromised, but those convicted of gross crimes would still not go free, waiting for the execution of the judgment. The temporary limitation of enforcement would therefore mainly apply to those who have been convicted for less than two years and whose crimes are not classified as gross. In these cases, too, it is possible, as at present, to use case-by-case judgment and to arrest a convicted person as soon as it is considered appropriate. Mr President! This situation also shows in its misery the need for an increase in the number of prisons in the future. No one is sure of the duration of the interest-rate crisis, but for example, there is no reason to wait until this year for the vaccine to be completed. That is why we must be prepared to ensure that such exceptional measures cannot be taken for a long time. The filling rates in Finnish prisons are already high, and when the sentences are again being enforced, the filling rates begin to reach their peaks again. The government should therefore immediately initiate measures to increase the number of detention places even on a fast schedule. The exceptional arrangements also raise concerns about the adequacy of the number of prison guards. Even before the corona crisis, it has become apparent that there are not enough trained staff, and the capacity to carry human resources that are already under pressure in a challenging situation is being exceeded. That is why we should react quickly and invest in the training of prison guards in order to increase the number of staff for the future. We should have acted on this before the corona crisis, but now is the time at the very latest to react to it with the seriousness it needs. Mr President! There is also a long list of foreign prisoners serving their sentence in Finland. In practice, however, the restrictions imposed by the interest rate stop the possibility of transferring foreign prisoners to their countries of origin. However, these exceptional circumstances must not become the norm, but the return of foreign prisoners to their countries of origin must continue as soon as possible in the context of the crisis. This is also one of the solutions to the high filling rate in Finnish prisons. The Corona virus epidemic has not so far caused problems in Finnish prisons, but international examples of early release of prisoners as a result of the corona show the need for a preventive action such as this proposal. Mr President! Were there five minutes or seven minutes? [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : 7 minutes. It's okay to talk shorter. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u16	Mr President! For my part, I would like to thank the government for this proposal. The effects of the Korona virus extend to all parts of society, and prisons are no exception in this respect. Exceptional circumstances require exceptional decisions. The proposed postponement is necessary and appropriate, in particular in view of the high level of filling of prisons. Full prisons are a significant risk factor for the spread of the corona virus. I have already pointed out, among other things, the extension of Vantaa’s detention facility, and the current level of filling of closed facilities and the prison network are definitely things that we need to return to as soon as possible after the crisis. Mr President! In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we examined whether there could have been other possible ways than the present proposal would have a rapid impact on the number of prisoners in our prisons. We had a debate on the impact of the postponement of criminal proceedings in the courts. Would it have been possible to find additional premises, increase the number of people placed in controlled test freedom or transfer foreign sentenced persons to their countries of origin? However, on the basis of the reports we have received, their effects will be realised with delay and thus will not replace the prisoner-numbering effect of the proposed law, or they were not even possible in this situation or in a timely manner. In addition to these options, we also considered the impact of the proposal on general lawfulness, security and the status of victims. In view of these issues, it is good to emphasise a number of points in particular in the government's proposal. Firstly, the proposal would only apply to those who have been convicted and who are already awaiting the execution of the sentence in freedom. For their part, the courts have assessed the risk of waiting for a judgment. In practice, the focus of the motion is on minor crimes, and there are no dangerous repeaters. Furthermore, the law does not apply to persons imprisoned by the court under the law on coercive measures or in prison under the law on detention. This means, for example, that the stay does not apply to those sentenced to imprisonment for more than two years or, for example, if there is reason to assume that the person leaves the country in order to avoid the sentence. Secondly, with regard to these people, who are affected by this proposal, it is only a matter of a delay of a few months. Judgments shall be executed as soon as possible if circumstances permit. The motion has also ensured that no judgment shall lapse as a result of the postponement. The execution of the sentence is also relevant for the victim of the crime. On the basis of the report in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we consider that, while the sentence has been suspended for only a few months, this would not have a significant impact on the situation of the victim, also bearing in mind that, in individual cases today, enforcement can be postponed for a maximum of one year. Mr President! The aim of the proposal is to minimise the number of infections, to ensure the health of prisoners and workers, and thus to keep prisons operational under exceptional circumstances. The Government's proposal supports this objective and so do I. As the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights sees it, this proposal is preferable to what has been decided in some other countries: to allow prisoners to be released prematurely. Mr President! On the basis of the reports received by the Legal Committee, the courts have suspended the 2000 cases of the corona epidemic at this stage. This will also have a delay in the number of prisoners in prisons, but it will also mean that cases before the courts and the Prosecutor's Office will be congested and the processing times will be prolonged. It is clear that the corona virus situation will continue for some time to come, so it is essential for citizens' legal protection that remote access to justice and videoconferencing facilities be increased as soon as possible. There is already evidence that the corona virus situation will have an impact on the need for additional resources from the judiciary and the prosecution to defuse cases. The need for additional appropriations should therefore be urgently examined in the preparation of the amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u17	Mr President! Even before this crisis, the Finnish prison system has been facing challenges in many ways. As stated in the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the level of filling is high, there is a shortage of trained staff and there are challenges, such as how prisoners could still be reasonably close to their home, so that life and possible future integration back into society can be as successful as possible. So now this crisis is in a situation where we were already faced with challenges and where the government has already drawn attention, which was also the subject of intensive discussion during the government negotiations, and it is therefore important that solutions should now be sought in a flexible way. It is clear from the report that every possible means have been mapped out to make things easier for prisons, because it is natural for prisons that if there are too many people, then simply keeping distance and other security measures will not succeed. Although this increase in the use of controlled trial freedom is a fully justified part of this whole, but, as has been said, it does not yet achieve adequate prison deductions. That is why it is important that we now put in place in good time the controlled means to keep the number of prisoners sufficiently low, precisely because of what Members have already described here, that we are not going to have to resort to sudden solutions, as it were, when we see that we have prisons too full for the spread of the corona. At this time, however, I believe that it is still justified to take care of the fundamental rights of prisoners: that the services are carried out, that in some way one can continue to be in contact with the family and that there is also a desire to ensure that the fundamental rights are taken care of. This is particularly important when considering the groups of prisoners who are affected by this restriction when we talk about the conversion of a fine, for example. In the light of the studies carried out over the last few years and the discussion that has taken place, we are talking about a group of people, a large part of whom may be, for example, without housing or otherwise in a difficult situation, and then this crime is just a dot on i in that difficult situation. For some of them, that going to prison may have been the only way to get the roof over their heads, and now, of course, when it fails, we have to make sure that other services that solve homelessness are accessible to them. We know that homelessness services already face challenges for the sake of the corona, and now we are adding more people to the queue, and that is why it is important that we look at this issue as a whole and try to manage all the services so that everyone has a roof over their heads and sufficient food and income even in these exceptional times. Therefore, in addition to looking at the prison system, we need to look more closely at the situation in society, especially as we are aware of the fact that there are many people who are disadvantaged in society and we know that there is a very high demand for services there in principle. Especially when this is combined with the fact that the most effective ways of preventing crime are precisely the timely and effective services aimed at tackling the spiral of crime before it begins, it is also important, for the sake of the long-term overall safety of society, to ensure that, during this time, not only all services are broken down, but that it is actually guaranteed the security of the entire Finnish society in the future. In my view, these aspects have been well addressed here in Parliament, and I hope that this broad concept of comprehensive security will now be kept closer by the fact that, in the midst of this pandemic, we have realised that there are indeed a wide range of security threats that can hit society. A range of threats can harm and threaten us, and that is why such a wide-ranging approach is essential in order to deal with these crises with minimal bruising.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u18	Mr President! We live in extraordinary times. Controlling the spread of the corona virus requires action across society. Many things need to be reconsidered or arranged in another way. The government's proposal to postpone the enforcement of the conversion penalty and minor prison sentences is justified under these exceptional circumstances caused by the corona virus. This bill also seeks to prevent problems. In some countries even prisoners have been released when the virus and problems have spread far enough. The amendment of the law is also important from the point of view of prison staff. Combating the corona virus requires physical distance between people and avoiding all kinds of contact. Restrictive measures are justified in order to curb the spread of the virus. For the time being, Finnish prisons have escaped the corona virus, but further efforts are needed to maintain a good situation. The spread of the virus in prisons would seriously threaten the functioning of the system. There have been worrying examples of this elsewhere in the world, and we absolutely want to avoid problematic situations by all means. Mr President! The proposed legislative changes are desirable by the Criminal Sanctions Agency and would help prisons to fulfil their mission in these exceptional times. Ensuring the essential functions of society requires reflection and adaptability from legislators and public authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u19	Mr President! Under normal circumstances, prisoners are prevented from leaving prison, especially unauthorizedly, and in the present situation, they are prevented from getting there. It's been pretty exciting. The fact that there is no time to register for conversion sentences and prison sentences of up to six months is, in itself, rather regrettable when we know that many of the criminals involved — a professional drinker or a drunk driver who is repeatedly driving — are, however, running around here in our midst and the police are increasing their duties when they are not locked up in prison. We know that the police are already in a hurry because of the interest rate, when people are home a lot — domestic violence is increasing and the home run — and then the police are forced to control the borders of Uusimaa, which already takes up a lot of police resources, and then these prisoners are being held here. But it must be admitted that this is a much better option than the premature release of prisoners from prison would be wrong for the sense of justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u20	Mr President! This proposal is justified in order to temporarily reduce the number of prisoners in order to combat the consequences of the corona epidemic. It is clear that an epidemic in a closed place, such as a prison, could indeed spread very uncontrollably. But I would also like to highlight another problem which this corona epidemic has caused and which this bill also has its own impact on: namely, these restrictions on corona and, above all, the closure of borders have also blocked the drug routes. In other words, we will no longer have opioids or amphetamines, for example, from that Central Europe via the Baltic States or through ports, and the drug addicts have told us that there is already a clear drug shortage on the streets, i.e. a different kind of symptom that this drug market is not functioning in the past. There is also a threat in prisons of unrest and even riots because of this lack of drugs. Of course, prisons are also affected by the fact that, due to the corona epidemic, prisoners do not have leave permits or family reunions, and thus drugs are not allowed into prisons. This problem of substance abuse also makes it a good thing, of course, to be able to temporarily reduce the number of prisoners in order to ensure better order in these circumstances. After all, it is a positive thing that drugs become a shortage, and hopefully it could also have a positive effect on the health of prisoners. Now, of course, it is important that those prisoners who are now unable to get drugs and are forced to wean in prisons should receive support and help at this stage of weaning, so that perhaps they can get rid of drugs altogether at this time. Indeed, this proposal is necessary, but this situation in prisons and the security situation in prisons for both prisoners and staff should be monitored very closely. I would also like to point out that if those corona infections were to occur in prisons, then the staff and other prisoners should also have adequate protective equipment, and we now have major problems with them everywhere, when even the health workers do not have enough protective equipment, there are plenty of protective materials.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u21	Mr President! I too agree that, under these circumstances, this proposal is probably necessary, but I would like to point out here that it is absolutely essential that this is simply a transfer of these penalties, not a reversal of them. Indeed, if the fine had been temporarily waived, it would have given the wrong message and would probably have led to a significant increase in the number of these canals. I remember this fight for this refund of the fine, and yes, the traders, the trade workers and the people who are involved there daily, or the service stations where you can still fill up without an automatic, the message was very clear: that if these penalties are not returned, it will lead to an ever-increasing number of these crimes. So it is quite reasonable that these penalties are now being postponed, but certainly they must not be removed, because it would also cause new difficulties in such a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u22	Mr President! Selection tests at the Criminal Sanctions Training Centre (RSKK) are currently under way, which means that people are now applying for new students to be a prison guard. And in view of this corona crisis, these selection tests could not actually have intervened better than right now. Due to the interest epidemic, the suitability interview section had to be cancelled, and the 22nd of this month is still on the way to a material test for the candidates. Now, at the Ministry of Justice, it would definitely be worth considering very strongly that resources should be increased for the Criminal Sanctions Training Centre and that the number of admissions this year would be significantly increased in the selection test process. This can be done right now, but it would require a clear message from the government to the RSKK that it dares to increase the number of admissions. And this way we get more prison guards quickly, as the length of the degree is only 90 credits. At the same time, care should be taken to bring forward as much as possible the start of the selected training in order to achieve this 90 credits as soon as possible. In addition, there should now also be rapid flexibility in education so that those students who want to move much faster can also do so and thus graduate much faster. We would be better prepared for this situation now. For example, when I started teaching class, I completed 100 credits during my first year of study. And I know that there are many people who would be willing to do much more and much faster. Now, in this situation, I feel it is very necessary for this too to be addressed and for the government to give a very strong signal, that now if ever it is hoped that such flexible training paths can be made for prison guards. It is also noteworthy that this prison guard training also involves a lot of training, that is, they are also able to be, as it were, a supportive resource, with this training, in the use of the prison. — — — — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u23	And the chairman of the committee, Mr Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u24	Thank you, Mr President. There were some comments here, I even interpreted them as questions, and in fact I myself have been asked by the public as to whether prison holidays and visits are still taking place, how these close contacts have been avoided. In the hearing with the committee, the Criminal Sanctions Agency stated that vacations are therefore at the moment that only for necessary reasons can you get holidays, i.e. the death of a loved one, and there are no visits, i.e. telephone and Skype connections are mainly at stake. Mr Lehto has very well expressed the rather absurd idea that we are living in, that we normally put people in prison, who belong there because of their actions, and now we are preventing them from going there. But this situation is exactly as Mr Tynkkynen said that this is precisely what we are trying to prevent, when those who are guilty of the most serious crimes actually get there, that does not happen if we are in a situation where the prisons are in chaos. The current regulation, adopted by the Ministry of Justice, estimates a temporary reduction of the number of prisoners by between 100 and 200 prisoners, but with this proposal it would indeed be between 300 and 400 persons. I would also like to remind you that the court will order a person to be imprisoned if the sentence is at least two years in prison, that is, this does not apply to them. The court may also arrest a person if the sentence is less than two years but at least one year in prison and it is assumed that the sentenced person would flee or avoid the execution of the sentence or pursue criminal activity. Also, if the sentence is less than one year, the court may act in such a way that the person is incarcerated if the person has been sentenced by one or more decisions to imprisonment at short intervals, i.e. is such a repeater. — You pointed out that the court can continue to be imprisoned, and then the person goes to prison, and that is just how it is. Mr Räsänen raised the issue of vulnerable people and users of drugs, and this also came to the attention of the Committee in its hearings that some even wish to have access to prison conditions through the conversion penalty for the summer, but the committee nevertheless felt that it would be better for society to treat people in a state of poor health through public health and social services. Such thoughts are also involved in this. — I do not know if I understood correctly what you were saying about these drug addicts, that they could be better off in prison, even if that was the case, but it was considered that the health system and the social security system are the primary means, although that is certainly true. Then came the talk about this matter of ours. Although this is an exceptional situation and it is only in a very urgent situation that we take matters of our own, the committee took the matter of ensuring justice during the corona virus pandemic as a matter of its own, because there were signs in the public eye that district courts had to cancel their sessions because of the lack of remote access, and we were informed about this. The Court of Justice has recommended remote connections in order to avoid close contact. The DA’s staff have also moved to telework, but the problem is that there are no remote devices. This has been the subject of a particularly worrying message from the Court of Justice, and even the prosecutors, that money is needed for these devices. When I asked the Minister of Justice in a referral, the Minister of Justice spoke more about this role of the Court of Justice. That is why, because the committee is really concerned about this, we have then made a commitment and made a reference in this protocol to the urgent need to take measures to enable additional money and equipment to be made available. The committee has stressed that efforts should also be made to ensure the legal protection of citizens and the right to a speedy handling of matters in exceptional times. The court must take care of the core functions and the number of videoconferencing equipment should be increased considerably as soon as possible. This is exactly how it is. It cannot be that, for example, court cases cannot be dealt with because they do not have the equipment, even though the legislation has been reformed to the present day. This was a major concern of the committee and we will continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u25	Mr President! Traditionally Finns have had strong trust in law and Finland as the rule of law, and of course the rule of law must be that those who violate the law commit crimes also receive punishment for their actions. This is the basis for the fact that the life we all have together as members of society is safe and we can be confident that society will act in a way in which those who follow the law will be protected by the law and those who violate the law will be held accountable for their actions. In Finland a few years ago, it was unfortunate and unsuccessful to try not to convert fine punishments into imprisonment in a situation where the crime continues, and this certainly weakened the confidence of Finns in the law as well as, unfortunately, the morals of those who went to the crime path, when they were able to act in a way where no punishment is followed, for example, by regular shoplifting or other similar crimes. In this respect, it is very important that this derogation for this pandemic should not be turned into another unfortunate experiment to alleviate the offence, but that the crime should continue to be punished. Mr President! I would just like to bring the point of view of this debate, which, in my opinion, was quite an insightful point from Mr Räsäs, for example, that, now that mobility in Europe is falling, it could even help some prisoners to sober up. After all, we have a sad situation in Finland if we cannot guarantee that prisoners in a closed facility cannot be sobered up in the current legislation and resources available to the Criminal Sanctions Agency while they are in a closed facility. This is a truly sad picture of Finnish society. Yes, when a prisoner has suffered his punishment, he must have the opportunity to be intoxicated if he so wishes. He must have the opportunity to restore his social fitness and to participate as a full-scale member of society in a normal life after he has suffered his punishment and reconciled his actions. In this respect, it is now a serious place for Parliament to consider how we need to take legislation forward so that prisons are intoxicated and thus allow prisoners to move on to a better life after punishment, but make work safer for those working in prison care, for example, and many other important aspects of this intoxication of prisons. That is the point of view, Mr President, for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u26	Mr President! First of all, we must comment on the doubts expressed by Mr Automotive about the impact of the abolition of the conversion penalty in Finland at the time: There is no evidence that the Finnish people's trust in the law has been weakened in connection with this amendment of the law. And of course this concept of ‘moral offenders’, as represented byAuttoarvel,is also weakened, fortunate and abstract,that there is a certain There is no such study. [Arto Satose’s interlude] I am sure this bill is necessary from the point of view of the prison system in this situation, but I am not at all sure whether this is a good and positive presentation for the overall health of our people and the population. There are a lot of substance abuse problems, there are some mental health problems, there are quite a lot of homelessness or housing conditions that can count as semi-detached homeless, there are a lot of underlying illnesses, there are few opportunities to live a life that would follow the guidelines we all hope to follow under corona conditions — for example, bathing in this situation now, when all possible bathing places for homeless people are practically closed; there are few that can wash their hands even every day, let alone at the frequency we are recommended by THL. Handmade 38 euros bottle hardly anyone buys. In this same situation, we have open-side substance abuse services and other social services driven down, and, as Mrs Räsänen has pointed out here, the field is getting tougher, and that means we have quite a bomb coming out on the open side of the field. I look forward to it when the corona spreads properly in those folks — it makes a terrible impression there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the evening is getting a long way and we still have a lot on the list without going over it. Now let us try to keep the debate firmly under the heading. — — — — Mr Räsänen sets an example of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u28	Mr President! I took the floor to respond to the chairman of the committee. I was not talking about those people waiting to be convicted who are infirm and substance abusers, of whom this committee report refers, but about those who are already in prison. In fact, a large proportion of the prisoners are intoxicated. According to research, drug addicts account for about 60% of the prisoners. Now that because of the corona epidemic the borders have been closed and the prison permits for prisoners to leave have also been withdrawn, these unrests and even riots can come in prison just because of this lack of drugs, even those prisoners who are now left behind by the entry into force of this law. I support this proposal, Mr President, but that is why I think that other measures are certainly needed to keep order there in prisons.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u29	Mr President! As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I would now like to draw your attention to this debate. Representative Keto-Huovinen raised the issue of the extension of Vantaa Prison of Investigation. This is a very important issue, and we have been talking about it for a long time. Now, in a way, all the facilities that can be obtained in this situation would be important, and the extensions will indeed be introduced, because we may be surprised in a rather strong way if this corona is now able to enter the prisons. We have therefore closed schools in preparation — schools closed. Even if we have a corona virus inside such prison facilities. What happens then? In the present time, we cannot predict what kind of fundamental rights requirements, such as those for prisoners or prison guards, will be put forward there if this is the case. If we have such a rapid descent or a landslide, how do we act at that point? So now everything we can do should be rushed. For example, this extension of the Vantaa Prison of Investigation is one of the things that should be brought forward. Representative Suomela raised the issue of controlled test freedom. To the extent that it is possible to do so, it is certainly worth adding. But it's very limited, too. I would also suggest that, to the extent that it can be added, the use of footbands should also be kept in the range of means. Well, then, Mr Kontula is concerned about giving up conversion sentences for four months, because now many of those who have committed petty crimes, practically in a state of semi-detached homelessness, are not going to prison. You also spoke about how these many, for example, would not have the opportunity to wash. Now, at this point, I am forced to prioritise these issues, and now we have to prioritize prison sites. So in this country we have murderers, child rapists, even serial killers, and if they get out of prison, they always do it again. In a crisis like this, we cannot think in such a way that the critical capacity we have, we use in principle that we safeguard for certain people these very possibilities of washing and others. Congressman Kontula, your party is on the board. These measures must, in principle, be resolved in an entirely different arena. These relate to social services, to solving homelessness, to other such matters. You are now in the government, you have the power, you have the money. That's how you're gonna have to go out and solve these things. Unfortunately, we cannot prioritize that expensive prison capacity at this point, even though I understand the beautiful idea behind it. Mr President! Mr Räsänen then spoke about these blocked drug routes. That's absolutely true. It is now predicted that anxiety may occur in prisons, which will then increase the need for personnel. It is also one of these reasons why we should now be able to react very strongly in advance. Mr Meri, the chairman of the committee, raised these challenges in the use of remote access by the courts, to which they have therefore been recommended because of the interest rate. These will increase the pressure even further in the future as this mist is dismantled and prisoners then fall into prison. And for that reason too, both in terms of staff and in terms of farms, we must be prepared in advance. Mr President! Last but not least, I would like to raise one point which the government should take into account when preparing for the corona crisis in prison care, namely the families. At the moment, our families are mainly at home, some may work, but in principle we are at home quite far. There's kids in there. Stress and pressure are growing in a way that's crazy. In addition to the fact that one of the parents may have visited bars on weekends, for example, but now they are at home, for quite a few, alcohol consumption can increase in front of children and thus a different threat of violence and so forth, violent crimes and such things. It is to be expected that these problems of this kind will also be the subject of convictions. There are, therefore, so many points of view, which is why we should now be on the move in advance on these issues. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u30	Mr President! It is appropriate to prepare in advance for the worsening of the Corona virus epidemic, since we have no information on how long this will last. As Mr Tynkkynen said earlier, in fact, the possibility of new prison facilities needs to be explored in advance, precisely because the introduction of these new facilities for prison use is not very rapid because of these technical requirements — security technology, camera surveillance, locking and then genuine walls, so that they can be used for cell use. Furthermore, as has been pointed out here, the human resources of prisons are already very scarce and, as a result, the training of these new prison guards is very important and should be increased as far as possible. However, as this problem persists, attention must also be paid to the bottleneck, which arises when these matters are not brought forward by the district courts or the prosecutor's office, and there is a need to pay attention to the possibilities of teleworking there. At the moment, these sessions cannot be organised because there are no equipment or connections that have worked badly. We must take care of the conditions for the remote work of the courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office, but that cannot mean staff cuts either. In recent years, Valtor’s expenditure has increased costs and has been an increase in expenditure for both the judiciary and the Prosecutor’s Office. As a result of the increase in Valtor’s expenditure, the prosecutor’s office has already had to adjust and intensify its operations by more than EUR 600000, and the corresponding figure for the courts is EUR 2.6 million. This situation, in which human resources are weighed with the accuracy of one person, both in the judiciary and in the Prosecutor's Office, but at the same time IT expenditure increases by hundreds of thousands of euros without any influence on them, is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u31	Mr President! Many very sensible speeches have been made here. Very briefly, I would just like to reply to Mr Kontula when he did not know whether there was any evidence that this abolition of the conversion penalty would normally have undermined confidence in the law. I don't know either. I don't think there's any evidence on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u34	Mr President! First of all, to Mr Auto, I would say that the conversion penalty has not stopped, not even reduced the number significantly, nor did the abolition of the conversion penalty in due course significantly increase it. There is no evidence of either of these, simply because those people who engage in such petty crime so much, first of all they get caught and, secondly, they get caught so many times that they end up subject to the conversion penalty, are already living in a world in which a few months in prison is not really intimidating that they would consider their actions well in advance. I would say to Mr Tynkkynen that the arguments usually improve if you listen to the speech that you have to make. I am not concerned about the abolition of the conversion penalty, as you suggested. In fact, personally, I am in favour of giving up the conversion penalty, not just for a moment, but for a long time. I only said in my own speech that, as an impact assessment, I felt a little about the outside field and the current situation that I do not believe this decision is a good solution for the overall health of the population, although it may be necessary or the best solution for the situation in the prison institution. These are completely different things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u35	Mr President! I thank you for a good debate and thank you for the fact that the committee was largely supported and the government's proposal was largely supported. There were certain duubies about what was in the explanatory statement and the effects of this. However, I would like to do so — it goes a little over this point, in a way, that we have or do not have a conversion of the fine, but when we are discussing this, I would like to remind you that the debate was about whether it has an impact on crime and other things, that we very easily forget the status of the victim. The victim is the owner of the gas station, the victim is the employee who gets into that situation and has nightmares that the next time you stay at the bar in the evening and if there are any thefts. The victim is the entrepreneur. We must also remember that the victim must experience that they are punished for those acts. It is one of such a view of justice. In this debate, many talk about their own empirical experiences and I find them valuable. That's what we bring here through our own voters. There can be no research on everything, and it cannot be required that there should always be some scientific research. And is it always the right thing to do, has there been an interview with real people and things like that? I appreciate the views of all the representatives. And sometimes I find that while a person requires research from other people, he may, in his next speech, say that his views and his own findings, so that a little bit of this contradiction arises, that he himself may base his views on empirical observations and others should then base his views on scientific studies. But I thank you for a good debate and I hope that this will really remain temporary, and I hope that things will be kept under control in prisons. As Mr Tynkkynen said, the worst possible situation is that we are going to have a huge epidemic in prisons, prison guards are going to bed and the disease is progressing. And there are really dangerous prisoners, very dangerous — I hope we do not have to let them out. This is the best option for us to choose between the interest rate and the cholera, so to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u36	Mr President! To Mr Kontula, I would like to say that I listened very carefully to your speeches as I did to everyone in this Chamber, so that, as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I could respond to the various points and points that are being raised here in the debate. But your sage led me astray. We'll have to look again on the tape if there's a strong support for this performance. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u37	Yes, let me say to Mrs Merelle that there is quite a lot of research about the Finnish people's trust in the law, if you have referred to this. It's not an unexplored area.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u40	During the corona, I saw some kind of sublime dexterity, it annoys me. I will not mention anyone by name, but I would like to say again what I have just said. First of all, I myself have not appealed to any studies or interventions — I said that I value people’s experiences. I also said that a person who himself requires research information from others — almost everything should always be in the back pocket of a research package — is appealing to empirical experiences himself. I would like to see a contradiction in its own actions, and perhaps not always so lofty. But I thank you for this debate, and I will end with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u41	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 4/2020 by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u42	Mr President! According to the proposal, an entrepreneur would be entitled to unemployment benefit when full-time employment was completed due to interest or when income from business activities fell below EUR 1089,67 per month. The right to unemployment benefit would be assessed on the basis of the jobseeker’s own declaration and own assessment. This is a temporary change, part of our government's extensive corona package, which seeks to soften the attack on our economy. It also includes the fact that the unemployment security of an entrepreneur in this proposal would have been simplified in order to enable our authorities to cope with this new task, and its value for money would have been reduced due to the fact that many of the work equipment for consideration is considered inappropriate to introduce them in such a short period of time and in such an exceptional situation. The committee commends the proposal and considers it excellent. However, in its own report, the committee stresses the need to ensure prompt payment. This requires sufficient labour resources both for the TE Offices and then for Kela, but also further streamlining bureaucracy, reducing duplication of work by the authorities in the processing process. The committee also stresses that, since this is a completely new instrument of work, it requires more communication and information than normal, so that those who need this unemployment benefit will also be able to consult and apply for it, and points out that since we do not know the pace of the epidemic at this stage, it is necessary to monitor the situation and see if the estimated period of validity is appropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u43	Mr President! This extraordinary time is hard on all of us. It is true, however, that the necessary measures to protect society now require greater sacrifices than others. The sudden turning of everyday and personal economic situations into uncertainty is hard for anyone. It is completely human that it affects well-being, mental health and family relations. For example, we can see this from the growing telephone contact statistics. Many entrepreneurs have their own employees and their well-being and earnings on top of their own financial uncertainty. In this situation, where entrepreneurs close the doors to protect society, they make a great sacrifice. Its sacrifice should not grow any greater than it already is for them. This government proposal, which now provides temporary protection for entrepreneurs as well, is extremely important. It is important for years of work and effort not to automatically mean bankruptcy and the disappearance of your handprint, so that you can now get help yourself. It is also important to take account of the growing need for resources to process applications, so that the promised subsidies reach people at the right time, because now is the time when we need to take care of entrepreneurs in this country, because we need their input and their courageous attitude to continue. With this government proposal, we will bring relief to financial uncertainty, when even during an exceptional period the bills and groceries coming from the mailbox can also be handled in entrepreneurship families.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u44	Mr President! The Government's proposal on the temporary organisation of the right to unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs is necessary and supported. However, I am concerned about how the employment and economic development offices and the Social Insurance Institution will cope with the implementation of unemployment benefits, as the committee also drew attention to in its report. This afternoon, the Social Insurance Institution held a press conference in which, according to estimates made by Kela’s Director-General, Antila, there will be 130000 new applications for unemployment benefit in the coming weeks, and in addition, the number of applications for general housing allowance and basic income protection is expected to increase by about 90000. Kela therefore expects a total of approximately 300,000 applications to increase in the next few weeks. Paying labour market support to entrepreneurs requires a person to register as a job seeker at the Employment and Economic Development Office (TE Office), which, on the basis of an entrepreneur's survey, gives an opinion on the labour market right to labour market support to Kela. In addition to entrepreneurs applying for labour market support, the number of layoffs and unemployed registered as job seekers is growing rapidly due to the corona epidemic, which significantly increases the workload of TE Offices and Kela. In this situation, I would also see the need to provide the TE Offices and Kela with sufficient resources to deal with the increased workload, as the chairman of the committee, Mr Kontula, said just now. I would have liked an answer from the government as to whether these funds are available for the recruitment of additional resources, so that the right of the jobseeker to have his case dealt with without undue delay can be safeguarded in this exceptional situation as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u45	Mr President! The spread of the corona virus has caused an exceptionally serious shock to the Finnish economy. Entrepreneurs particularly affected by the economic crisis and the necessary demarcation measures, most of whom are already in difficulty. According to the poll of Finnish Entrepreneurs, as many as 86 per cent of enterprises with more than ten persons reported difficulties due to the corona crisis. Nearly one in four of all entrepreneurs reported that they are already experiencing payment difficulties. Every day we hear about the opening of the negotiations and the layoffs. Every day, there are worrying contacts from entrepreneurs. This proposal on unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs is extremely necessary and worthy of support. Entrepreneurs are vital to Finnish society, and we cannot turn our back on them in a situation where they face unreasonable difficulties completely independent of themselves and their own actions. Right now, it is absolutely essential that the entrepreneur does not have to stop his business in order to be entitled to unemployment benefit. Despite its seriousness, the corona crisis is temporary and we cannot therefore lose our entrepreneurs. At the moment, decisions are being taken as to whether to help companies stay in business over this crisis or to allow them to go bankrupt. This bill is very well-founded in order to help companies survive. However, it is essential to help companies to stay in business. That is why unemployment benefit alone is not enough to help entrepreneurs; we also need other measures. The State and other public actors play a major role in this. Facilitation of compulsory payments will help many businesses and could save jobs. In addition, there is a need for flexibility and support for taxes and loan payments and interest rates as well as rents. The Government's proposal lists areas of activity affected in particular by restrictions and recommendations resulting from the corona virus epidemic. However, it should be noted that the list presented is not exhaustive. At present, almost all sectors are suffering the consequences of the corona virus, including those not mentioned in the government list. In this context, it should also be noted that even if the Coronary Crisis is over by the deadline for the end of this Act, it is appropriate to examine whether there is a need to extend this law. The company’s recovery may take longer than expected, even if the crisis is over. Of course, we hope that the economy will start to run in the desired way after the crisis, but the recovery may take time, and this must be taken into account and looked into in the future whether there is a need for further law. Our society and our economy have been seriously affected by the interest-bearing crisis. Its longer-term consequences are strongly dependent on action taken at the moment. We minimise the effects of the crisis best when we provide adequate support measures to enable companies to cope with difficult times.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u46	Mr President! As a rule, an entrepreneur can receive unemployment benefit only if he ceases his business, but with this proposal the entrepreneur does not now have to terminate his business. So you can make a little money and keep business and personal relationships in place. You may have some responsibilities towards another entrepreneur, and you will be able to do certain jobs for him, even if you receive unemployment benefit at the same time. Many people have been forced to become entrepreneurs without their own will when they have outsourced tasks that they have previously worked on. You can be a cleaning lady or someone else, and you have been told that work will stop unless you become an entrepreneur and then take care of it as an independent entrepreneur. This has happened to a lot of people. And now, considering that the corona has forced the food businesses to close, it again brings many unemployment into the chain. There is a karaoke leader, entertainers, who are unemployed because of the corona. There could be the cleaning lady, the self-employed one who gets to do it. It is good that these companies do not need to be completely shut down, but can be put on a little like a break. As Mr Keto-Huovinen said, Kela estimates that there will be 130000 new applications for unemployment benefit in the near future, and Kela expects a total increase of 310000 applications in the coming weeks. This would mean that Kela needs its 1000 employees to process these applications. Well, now that we have companies lay off, lay off, and many companies are kind of idle, there are a lot of accountants in the accounting office as well as companies who temporarily do not have a job, so now Kela would be able to employ these people. They do have the skills to handle these tasks with a small degree, so that through it now Kela quickly recruits them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u47	Mr President! We know that entrepreneurship carries Finland. At the moment, however, many entrepreneurial families, many of the employees in the company's homes have great concerns about the future. The pandemic situation is not in any way the fault of Finnish entrepreneurs or the employees of these companies, but the fall in the demand for their services and products is now purely due to decisions taken in Finland and around the world to prevent this virus from spreading now. This is why, in this situation, society must be particularly supportive of entrepreneurs so that they can back up the momentum of society once we return to normal conditions. In this sense, this government proposal is very well founded that the smallest companies, the entrepreneurs who are otherwise without unemployment security and in a situation where their business activities would end up in such a state, in which so many Finnish companies are now, that there will be no money left in the cash register and that they will have to stop business, and now, with this regulation, then, as if they were going to wait for it to normalise. This is now a very wise solution that we can make here to support entrepreneurs so that entrepreneurs will then be able to raise the nation back on their feet at the time of progress after the crisis. But, Mr President, the same concern that has been expressed here by a number of honourable Members is that, when these applications for benefits are to be expected to reach more than 300,000 in this very area, this prompt procedure must be ensured in one way or another.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u48	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a law on the temporary organisation of the right to unemployment security for entrepreneurs is a very good proposal. The report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities is also unanimous and the government proposal is proposed to be accepted without amendment. Mr President! In view of the exceptional situation, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities attaches great importance to the fact that entrepreneurs do not have to quit their business in order to obtain unemployment benefit. The rapid recovery of the economy following the recovery of the conditions following this virus epidemic will require companies to be able to resume their activities quickly. The committee is in favour of facilitating access to unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs. And as we know, the proposal relates to the State's second draft amending budget for 2020 and proposes a temporary amendment of the Unemployment Protection Act. Mr President! I have received very good feedback from entrepreneurs and self-employed people who have received some kind of response to their plight, and I would like to thank the government for a good proposal, but I would particularly like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities and also the members of the committee for having had a good debate in committee and for having brought a good report here to Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u49	Mr Kontula, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-47.u50	Mr President! I have just presented the committee as chairman, but now, as the only left-wing member of the committee, I was thinking of bringing a little left-wing perspective to this debate. In other words, simple unemployment benefit for an entrepreneur, which has never been on this scale before in Finland, is not a great idea just in terms of corona, but is a great idea in general, considering the development of Finnish society and bringing social security closer to that appropriate modern age. And that is why I think it is important that, as a result of the interest rate, we now have an experiment on simplified social security for entrepreneurs, simplified unemployment security, without all the uncertainties and unforeseeable uncertainties associated with entrepreneurs' social security under normal conditions, so that what we can learn from this can be learned from our Social Security Committee and possible other development projects. The second point was raised in another way, which was raised in the committee's expert hearings: After all, we now have a situation through this bill, through approval, in which entrepreneurs actually have a protective part to receive unemployment benefit up to the amount of more than EUR 300 per tonne of income, while other unemployed people have that part. I would suggest that, in this situation, when we know that we urgently need short-term seasonal labour in this country and that it is available to people other than unemployed job seekers, the same level of temporary increase in the protective part could also be made for those who have become unemployed.
