ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 22 June 2020. In the debate, Jussi Halla-aho Mari Rantanen has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u2	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 22 June 2020. In the course of the debate, Mr Vestman Sari Multala, supported by Mr Sari Multala, has tabled a proposal for reasons of objection and proposals for statements 1-6. In addition, Ville Vähämäki, supported by Riikka Slunga-Poutsalo, has submitted a proposal for a statement, which has been distributed to the representatives on multiple occasions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u3	We now have to vote on the proposal on the arguments put forward by Mr Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u4	Finally, we must vote on the proposals for statements made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u5	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u6	Mr President! I personally understand that measures are being taken during the exceptional period to ensure that Parliament operates and is able to maintain its capacity to act, and that is why I am prepared to advocate the organisation of remote committee meetings if there is any way to ensure the confidentiality of committee work. That has not been clear to me, and I hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will go through this in order to ensure the confidentiality of committee work in those situations when it is possible to attend meetings from its own home. And then this vote: Unfortunately, Mr President, I myself am not in favour of the Parliament being able to vote remotely. I have had a discussion about this with experts, read the report of the Ministry of Justice in 2017, which F-Secure made at the time, and they do make it quite clear that it is not possible to have a voting system that we can consider completely reliable. The question must be asked whether, as a result of a dangerous infectious disease with very widespread effects, the condition for such a measure is now met and whether it is necessary. Jarno Limnéll, one of the best Finnish experts in this field, said a moment ago on Twitter that he would under no circumstances be introducing such a voting system and stated that information security is not at such a good level. That working group report from the Ministry of Justice of 2017 read — even though it relates to a slightly different issue in which citizens would vote electronically or by means of an online vote — it does realise these two greatest risks when the Parliament moves to an electronic vote. The risks are therefore greater than the benefits, and there are serious dangers in such a online vote that such an attack could either slow down or affect, for example, the fact that the people of Turku cannot vote — and even worse if they do not. Unfortunately, Mr President, I am not in favour of this type of house moving to a distance voting practice in this situation, especially in this type of situation, where we are currently living, and I hope that the Constitutional Committee will seriously go through this and come to the conclusion that there is no system that cannot be influenced internally or by foreign powers in Finland. Think about the voting situation in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, these precautions are still in force here in Parliament. I'm asking you to hold security intervals while you're sitting in this room.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u8	Mr President! It is extremely important that the highest decision-making body in our country, Parliament, and democracy are guaranteed under all circumstances. In particular, in the event of a crisis and in exceptional circumstances, it is absolutely essential for Parliament to be able to take decisions quickly if necessary. That is why I think it is very valuable that the Council of Presidents has now brought us this proposal very quickly, and it is also unanimous. It is proposed to amend Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and the Council of Presidents stresses the temporary nature of the proposal and that, if it were to be seen that it would be useful to make a permanent change in Parliament's working methods in this respect, it would then be appropriate to implement the regulation by revising the Constitutional provisions as well. The implementation of this proposal would mean that from the beginning of the autumn session 2020 until the end of June 2021 it would be possible to take part remotely in committee meetings and also to vote remotely in plenary. This would naturally reduce the need for parliamentarians to move and come to Helsinki to do parliamentary work, and in this way we could continue to reduce the opportunities for physical contact and the possibility of infection. Mr President! This is not the first time that consideration has been given to teleworking opportunities for parliamentarians. However, Korona has changed our thinking in such a way that now we really have a proposal before us that would allow remote participation in voting as well. Already at the time of the corona, we have been able to distance ourselves from informal meetings of the committees, which has been good and necessary, and both we in Parliament and as a whole as a people, we Finns have managed to cope well with the corona so far, but caution is still needed. And, as the unfortunate examples from that world show — even today we have heard bad news — we have to be prepared for the so-called second wave to come and then, in Parliament too, to seize these new opportunities proposed by the Council of Presidents. The central parliamentary group gave its opinion on this proposal and stated and stressed the need to ensure a workable and secure solution. It is extremely important, and it is also important that representatives receive the necessary training for these remote arrangements. Thank you to the President-in-Office for the responsible and well-considered proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u9	Mr President! The Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament also made a statement on this proposal, and it is good to note in this context that we do not have a member of the Council of Presidents. It could be said that, as a general rule, we welcome the introduction of these remote possibilities, but with the reservations raised by Mr Heinonen in relation to these remote voting situations. And, of course, this reform is now being carried forward with a rather short period of time and with an urgent timetable, and that is why we feel it is particularly important that attention be paid to ensuring information security, ensuring equal participation of representatives and maintaining the authority of Parliament. In our own opinion, we pointed out that if we decided to move away from remote access, such a decision should be behind a certain qualified majority. For example, this decision could be taken by a two-thirds majority. It is therefore important for democracy to be realised that such an arrangement will then enjoy broad support in Parliament, and then a qualified majority will also ensure that the increase in telework is not used for any political purpose and that this possibility should not even be considered in theory. In this context, it may be useful to follow what is being done elsewhere in Europe, and one might say that, although time in many countries and also in the European Parliament, for example, there have been similar forms of teleworking as in Finland, it is precisely voting that has been excluded from teleworking. Such reports are going on across the board, so it is desirable that, in this context too, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should reflect on them and also monitor developments in other countries. In addition, consideration needs to be given to how information security can reach a level that can be handled in a reliable and risk-free manner in matters of secrecy or secrecy. As we know, this is not a theory in this house, but a situation that has been practically lived in a large committee where we could not, through Teams contacts, deal with the documents that have been labelled as confidential, with experts, which in itself led to a rather special situation, when we were unable to hold the debate which was extremely important, on Finland's positions in relation to the recovery funds and also on the multiannual financial framework. Mr President! Indeed, it could be said that overall it is positive, but this voting situation needs to be considered very carefully, and that is something that our group has reservations about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u10	Mr President! First of all, thank you for the performance. It is certainly well prepared and justified and necessary in this exceptional situation and in the situations that may arise. Everything needs to be prepared, and decision-making must be ensured in all situations. I'm picking up some of these keywords, some of which have already been reported. In other words, it is a temporary change and it is used in a situation where it is necessary to safeguard the ability to act. This must be a last resort, meaning that there is no other way of managing the capacity to act, and still, on a proposal from the Council of Presidents and after the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, that is to say, there are the locks that can be opened if necessary. This is a last resort. Mr Essayah and many others have already spoken about this confidentiality, information security. These are extremely important issues. Every voice in a tight situation may make a difference, and there must be no doubt that fraud, wrong means have been used. There may be a number of problems, as has been seen in the world when distance votes have been carried out and rumours have been spread — apparently deliberately in some cases — that the vote has been tampered with. One more question remains for me to ask and to reflect on, and it concerns this point, which says that at a meeting at a distance it is not possible to deal with matters which are subject to silence or to secrecy. Such documents cannot therefore be processed. We have a new committee in Parliament, which has been created as a result of a long work, with the implementation of the intelligence laws, that is, the Committee on Intelligence, and in practice all the matters of the committee are secret. The starting point is that all matters of the Committee on Intelligence are secret unless specifically decided otherwise. At the moment, since about mid-March, the situation has now been that, since the committee meets in a special state where there is no security for distances, the committee has not met at all. This carefully prepared proposal does not in itself provide any solution to this issue, and I am concerned about how this new committee will work. For example, consideration of the report of the Intelligence Supervisor
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u11	Mr President! The speeches that have been made raise important points as to how this whole issue should perhaps be further worked out, i.e. it is good that this temporary change should now be adopted, and also with these comments, which have been raised here, but we must also be prepared for what the future holds, and should we have in our Rules of Procedure and how our constitutions and our constitutions will react to the fact that in future there will be permanent records of teleworking, remote voting and so on. In other words, there may be various crises ahead, and at some point there is a need to think even more closely about this issue and to consult different experts on what is possible and what is not. A very important point in this proposal is the adoption decision, which will therefore take account once again of the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs if this were to be taken over. Representative Heinonen — who unfortunately has left — suspected that if the government falls from someone’s influence or there are other companies. However, the point here is that if the President considers that the vote has not given a reliable answer, it can then be renewed, which means that there is also some kind of plug-in to the fact that nothing will pass either. As I said at the beginning, after this crisis too, we must look at how we deal with teleworking or distance voting and the change that may still be ahead.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u12	Mr President! It is good that Parliament, through its own actions, will continue to prepare for situations such as the interest rate. This spring has been good for the most part in Parliament, even though it has required a lot of stretching from parliamentarians and civil servants. However, something that may not have been emphasised enough in this context is that, even in exceptional circumstances, Parliament exercises the highest decision-making power in Finland, and from the point of view of the rule of law and democracy, it is essential that its effectiveness and the working conditions of the MPs are also safeguarded in exceptional circumstances, and perhaps in every respect this spring this has not been possible without problems. Mr President! With regard to these concerns, it would also be important to carefully assess the impact of the spring constraint measures on parliamentary work, the democratic process, democratic debate and the capacity of the MPs to act. It has already been pointed out that this timetable is rather tight. It is important to develop teleworking opportunities, but, at the same time, the Left Alliance's parliamentary group has emphasised in its own opinion that the traditional working opportunities of parliamentarians must also be safeguarded.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u13	Mr President! The proposal for a temporary amendment of Parliament's Rules of Procedure is now under discussion. Now we cannot vote remotely at the moment. Interest or other similar threats can have a considerable impact on this decision-making process, and how can it be ensured that it is able to function in legislation if such a threat increases? If a large number of Members of Parliament fall ill at the same time, what will be done? It is therefore important that this exceptional situation is ensured that action and legislation can be taken then too. I think it is appropriate that this distance and distance voting is now planned. Of course, risks and information security are terribly big things, and they need to be taken into account — really important to take into account. There may also be a need for voting in committees, and you do not always know what kind of things are going to happen there. Mainly, I very much welcome that this kind of presentation and proposal is made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u14	President! The functioning of the Parliament as the supreme decision-making body of the kingdom must be safeguarded under all circumstances. It is also at the heart of this proposal and, as such, very understandable and acceptable. During this interest-bearing spring, thanks to the various exceptional arrangements, we have managed to maintain our ability to function quite well. It has called, of course, for various changes to the practices of the sittings, committee work, visits and working habits. In practice, many of Parliament’s employees have also moved to remote jobs, and this same logic has also been used by some of the MPs. In other words, there have been fewer people, or fewer contacts, in the Parliament. Despite these arrangements, things could have gone very differently. We might well have faced a situation in which the decision-making capacity of the representatives would have been jeopardised. Our current practices with long history have not been very flexible in this regard: the votes are therefore still a tangible push, and the formal meetings of the committees have still required their presence. Perhaps it has also been dictated by happy coincidences that we have not encountered large-scale quarantines or internal parliamentary transmission chains. I personally feel that the essential nature of the parliamentary work is precisely here in Parliament: that is to say, the common face-to-face debates, the discussions in committees and the meetings of guests, and so on, that is, the normal thing to do where people are together. But it is quite clear that we also need to agitate our own activities in situations where the virus that pollutes our health revolves around us. It is in keeping with all our rational actions. Although there are still unfinished issues and open questions in the proposal, I nevertheless consider it necessary for extreme exceptional circumstances. There are certainly more difficult issues in the world than remote parliamentary work with votes and information security. President! Finally, I hope that we will not find ourselves in the kind of situations that these measures are aimed at.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u15	Mr President! I am approaching a very well-founded proposal from the Council of Presidents from three different angles: First of all, I strongly believe that a personal example is the strongest way to guide people in the desired way. I have experienced the situation in this spring as a little difficult in this respect: we have urged people to distance themselves, while our own processes have not given us a high-quality opportunity to act as we ourselves have asked the citizens to do. Secondly, as a member of the Committee on the Future, I strongly believe in Finland as one of the leading countries in the digital world. If we want to keep this position, it also requires action. Companies have responded in a commendable way to the challenge of the corona virus, and problems have also been tackled well on the municipal side. I do not believe or hope that technology will remove the importance of a face-to-face debate, but the more familiar the new processes become, the more I believe they will make it possible. In other words, I would be open to the use of technology even after the corona has passed. But thirdly, what Mr Heinonen raised quite well here is security issues. These concerns are extremely important and, on the basis of them, I fully understand the conservative policies of our house. The confidentiality of committee work and the reliability and independence of remote voting in committee and in plenary must be guaranteed in all situations. We are not out of the world, and a light approach to security threats is the worst possible credulity in a serious matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u16	Mr. Speaker! In fact, we have a long-awaited or well-thought-out proposal from the Council of Presidents for a temporary amendment to Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which would introduce a temporary amendment to the law governing the work of Parliament, which would mean that, in the event of a serious epidemic, a pandemic, we can move to remote decision-making in committees as well as in this Chamber. I would like to thank Parliament, as chairman of the fourth largest group in Parliament and of the second largest government party group, for the whole of Parliament, both representatives and groups as well as the parliamentary administration, for the good-spirited, unanimous preparation that has led to this change in the way in which Parliament operates. I would also like to thank these state-law experts, public-law experts, who have also contributed to this very important, major change in principle, but a very necessary change. I support this proposal, President, in principle, and this is necessary. We need to think in every way about how to prevent a situation that has occurred during this corona disease in some countries, that, for example, Parliament as a whole, all 200 Members of Parliament, or a significant number of Members of Parliament will not be able to participate in the decision-making process once they have been exposed to the disease. Every effort must be made to avoid such a situation and to find ways to prevent it. This proposal would now be in force at this stage in the so-called academic year, i.e. from next autumn, 2020 autumn, to summer 21, i.e. from 20 to 21. Mr President! Anu Vehviläinen, the new Parliamentary President, said well in his speech that one of the largest teleworking experiments in Finland has been taking place. In practice, the committees have already worked very hard at a distance. Experts have been consulted at a distance and informal meetings have been held — then the final meetings have been bludgeoned physically. When I represent the city centre and we are known to be the entire Finnish party [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u17	Mr President! This proposal by the Council of Presidents is, in principle, to be welcomed. In fact, last season there were two rapporteurs who worked on reforming parliamentary work, and I think there are quite a lot of the same ideas in this proposal from the Council of Presidents. It is to be supported. The fact is that we must act under all circumstances, whatever happens in this society. We are the few installations that have to work. After all, we have done quite well in this area over the last few months. That's what I want to thank everyone for. Not necessarily because of the interest rate, but someone else may become much worse in the future — hopefully I am wrong again, but I can — and we must be prepared for it. This committee work is a good starting point for these activities. We've already had some long-distance hearings. It must be said that, in the committees, things usually become public — not always, as in the Committee on Intelligence, where Mr Kiuru is, they do not necessarily become public at any point — in other words, the world does not fall, even if information security may not work at a distance, of course this should not happen. This is quite something to be welcomed. When we go to this voting problem, this plenary session, I would say and the leading information security experts in Finland will say that we are not yet ready to have remote votes. It is a worrying matter if there is another challenge — I am not necessarily talking about the interest rate, it can be here too. We may have from here within the empire, but especially from outside the country, hostile actors who are trying to influence our voting behaviour and the outcome of the vote. I would be careful to go to remote votes so that it would be done from outside the house, but I would certainly like to see every representative in his own room. I believe it would be possible to securely do so inside the house so that not everyone will be packed in this hall. Then these distances and security distances would be maintained. This would be such a development if this were to happen — hopefully never to happen. This proposal from the Council of Presidents is a good development and a good one. This is a good place to keep working. The only concern is this information security issue, but I believe there will be a solution for that too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u18	Mr President! I would like to highlight three aspects of this: The first is that I too believe that this proposal is necessary, justified and well prepared. Another aspect is the concerns expressed here about how this information security and other arrangements might work at a distance. I think that these concerns are justifiable, and I am sure that they should be taken into account, even if this is accepted. I do not doubt that it will be taken into account: of course this is based on the fact that the President must always ensure that this vote works if it is introduced. I would like to read here the explanatory statement on this point, which states: ‘In selecting the remote voting system to be implemented, particular attention must be paid to the relevantopportunity of each representative to prevent a vote in a system that is technically operational, to vote on the reliable identification of a legitimate representative, to the correct registration of The system shall be protected against external interference and irregularities.’ These were therefore absolute conditions in order to move on to this in general. I also find it nice to note this in the explanatory statement: ‘The vote to delegate to another Member of Parliament by authorising this vote is a problematic andrejective option for the Constitutional Regulation which is an individual and individual I understand this argument quite well too, and I would not delegate my own voice to anyone else, even though we have very reliable people here. Mr President! My third point of view is that when we look at this issue in greater detail — the reform of parliamentary work, the reform of committee work and possible teleworking — I think it is necessary that, in connection with this reform work, permanent solutions be considered in depth for the introduction of possible distance meetings and possible distance voting. This model, which has now been presented, is based solely on the temporary arrangement of the interest-rate period, and, as I said at the beginning, this is a well-founded and worthy proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u19	Mr President! I myself would like to thank the Council of Presidents for this important proposal. Indeed, the European Parliament has already been able to move on to this type of distance voting and teleworking, and I think that the Finnish Parliament must also be able to do this if the situation so requires. There have been very good points of view in this debate, and it is quite clear, of course, that security issues must be taken extremely seriously. Of course, there must also be some kind of procedure if it turns out that the vote has been manipulated in some way or the representative has not been able to take part in the vote. There would have to be a procedure to reverse the previous result in such a situation and then renew this vote. The world is changing, and Parliament must also change with it. Just like the representative. The salmon mentioned above, I myself would like to call for those permanent solutions in relation to the organisation of these remote meetings. Moreover, I can see that it is now a good thing that Parliament has been able to set an example in this distance work. Remote work is the future, and hopefully even more so, for example, the state administration will introduce teleworking opportunities. For example, I would like those who work in ministries to be able to decide their own location in the future, because we have connections through which this work can be done anywhere in Finland. I see that the time for such forced territorialisation is over, and now it is time for this voluntary regionalisation to be done, because it is quite clear that many officials from the ministry here in Helsinki would be appealing to those provinces if only they had the opportunity to go there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u20	Mr President! This proposal is quite understandable, but it is impossible to support it, and here are a few arguments. I would like to raise the issue of the physical presence of the security of the vote, that is, the security of the vote, in this Chamber, where the presence and independence of the representative of Parliament are guaranteed in the event of a vote, so that, in the event of a vote, the representative is not subjected to external pressure or threat. Only a congressman can enter this Chamber, sit in his seat, make his own independent decision. There is another situation in which no one can know who might be in the same room with a representative or whether there is a threat to a Member of Parliament when you are somewhere else. The second point is this digital security, security. The current level of security is not such that no one can guarantee at the moment that there will be no hacking in the event of a vote, for example. I am a little surprised that the Council of Presidents has not given sufficient weight to this issue in this debate. And thirdly, Parliament must not be a laboratory for data security. We cannot think here that, because we are a parliament, we have to be, as it were, pioneers in matters, show the model, as has been said in many speeches, that we have to show the model. I wouldn't expose Parliament to be a data security lab. We buy a system to which the system vendor cannot guarantee absolute security — then we turn ourselves into a data security laboratory. For these reasons, Mr President, I would, however, like to maintain in Parliament a level of security, a level of voting security in which every representative can act physically here on the ground. There are other ways of doing so if such a great threat to our nation comes at a later stage, but with these arguments I cannot accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u21	Mr President! Exceptional circumstances require exceptional procedures. This now also applies to Parliament's decision-making and to Parliament's meeting. I am well aware that on this basis the Council of Presidents has made this proposal. We also have experience of the international community itself. Decisions are already taken at a distance in the European Parliament. I am also constantly linked to the corresponding decision-making of the Council of Europe, where almost daily meetings are held, and we also make decisions from a distance. The same applies to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and its involvement in it. Here some representatives, most recently Salmon and Kärna, spoke about the fact that remote work should also be considered in such a way as to make it a permanent institution, and in a permanent way we could make it possible to do so in the future. Mr President! Would you allow me to make a statement like this: "devil'sadvocate"? I would raise certain reservations here, reservations about the distance work-hype that has now been created in Finnish society, a little reticence to this issue. Three important reasons: The first is what Mr Laukkanen has already referred to. These security issues are still unresolved, at least once and for all. Up to a certain level, we'll be able to work. The second is the nature of this teleworking. I am certainly not the only Member of Parliament who has found it when he is present at these remote meetings, that yes, the attendance rates are very high — usually there are more representatives and participants at the distance meetings than at the normal meeting — but I am certainly not the only one who attends two remote meetings at the same time and actually does a third thing on that page, writes a speech or a column, or reads a book or something like that. The intensity of participation is quite different in these remote meetings than when we are physically present. Thirdly, the most important critical point is that the nature of these teleconferences leads to the concentration of power. It is not a question of concentration of political power, but, at any distance, power is concentrated on those who prepare that meeting and those who hold that meeting. Yes, when you have taken part in very many international meetings and also in parliamentary work, we understand that the meeting situation is just one thing. Its most essential influence takes place in the corridors, its essential influence is social contact, and thus, as it were, the process of decision-making matures.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u22	Mr President! We are dealing with a temporary amendment proposal and an amendment to Parliament's Rules of Procedure that will enable it to be amended. In my opinion, it is quite right that Parliament should also be prepared not to be surprised for the second time if the disease situation with this corona virus or another similar disease worsens. Of course, this amendment to Parliament's Rules of Procedure now proposes a temporary entry into force only until June next year. However, I believe that there is a major deficiency in this proposal, and it is in fact related to what Mrs Kiljunen mentioned in her previous speech. Here, in the detailed explanatory statement, when it comes to the confidentiality of the committee meeting, the confidentiality of the debate, we are talking about the need to be in a state where no other people can come. However, perhaps the bigger problem is, as we know, that many representatives are involved in many cases and that committee meetings may sometimes be close to each other, on top of each other. Especially if more experts are gathered and consulted at a distance, normal meeting times may not always have been applicable. Secondly, many of us have other obligations. Many, for example, are also involved in municipal policy, and these meetings may sometimes overlap with parliamentary committees. I think it would be very important to add to the detailed explanatory statement that, when taking part in committee meetings at a distance, no other meeting can take place at the same time. This sounds self-evident, but, as we have already seen, it may often be forgotten that in such a situation there is at least as much risk of breach of security as someone, such as his own child, walks into the room where a remote meeting takes place. In fact, I think it is very important that this issue should also be included here in the text so that we show that we also understand what this remote world of meetings is, as it were, in reality, that you are physically unable to be in two places, at least yet, at the same time, but at a distance you can be in different distance meeting systems. And since I now interpret that, apparently, it has not yet been decided to use a specific system — which is particularly good — but we know that so far almost all public organisations have used one system and the same system, there is a particular risk that those debates or requests for intervention will also end up in the hands of the wrong parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u23	Mr President! Under normal circumstances, the nature of representative decision-making is at gatherings. However, this proposal is about safeguarding decision-making in exceptional circumstances — a wise precaution if the epidemic gets worse again. Finnish society has quickly taken big strides in teleworking: remote school education was organised in the spring using electronic connections, companies have moved widely to electronic meetings, virtual meetings have taken place very widely in meetings between people. All in all, such a very wide-ranging digital leap has been made in this society. On the part of representative democracy in the municipalities, it has been possible to organise public decision-making at a distance from the meetings of the councils, governments and committees. Even the European Parliament has moved on to remote decision-making. Well, I suppose that's possible for this house, too, if that's what it takes. Parliament's decision-making has also been reasonably secured during an epidemic period by limiting the number of representatives in plenary at the same time, by keeping distance from the committees, and even by allowing for informal distance hearings so that representatives have also been able to participate in them at a distance. However, the practices in the various committees have not been consistent, and we certainly have development in that regard. The vote has become a particular problem. They should also be made possible at a distance, at least by telephone, just in case the situation, for one reason or another, requires that we meet together or perhaps even come to the Parliament House for some reason. However, as has been pointed out here, information security is an absolute precondition for state decision-making that no one can influence decisions from outside. That is what we must take very seriously in this house and in the decision-making of this house. However, I do not see it as a total obstacle to this remote decision-making process, but as a problem or delay that can be solved. In the end, however, what this proposal is all about is that the most important thing is to safeguard the ability to make decisions in all possible situations. Under normal circumstances it will certainly be done naturally through these normal practices, but if the situation requires otherwise, it is good that provision is made such as this presentation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u24	Mr President! We do indeed have a proposal from the Council of Presidents to amend Parliament's Rules of Procedure on a temporary basis so that we can have a remote vote both here in the Chamber and then also a committee meeting at a distance and also vote there in the committees. Indeed, when it comes to such an exceptional situation and the resultant remote vote, this would come into effect next autumn and would be in force until June next year. It is, of course, important to be able to guarantee parliamentary influence and to do the parliamentary work. This extraordinary spring has been different in that it may have been around a quarter at a time and there have been very different practices in the committees. It is important that these activities maintain reliability, identification and verification. Information security is, of course, an important issue, but this kind of vote by 200 representatives is a little different from, for example, the online vote on the state elections. Last season, there was a group of experts on online voting in the Ministry of Justice and a parliamentary working group in which I was also involved. These matters were considered by representative Kurvisen, and it was unanimously concluded that online voting should not be extended to national elections in Finland. Although I myself have been like this in electronic voting and other pros, so I changed the position since last season it was already stated that it has security risks far too great. But, of course, here, when all the votes and whoever the representative vote for are also public, they always become public after its decision, and in that sense that personality is important and transparent. Rather, these various other votes are about the fact that what a person has voted for must not be reflected in our national systems. In that sense, I do not see the issue of security in relation to the vote, but then, of course, there is all the discussion and material of the committees and so on. But now that we are finally preparing for such remote votes under certain conditions, when, last season, I myself pointed out that colleagues on parental leave would have the possibility of a remote vote, so I hope that this will also be possible in the Council of Presidents when we are now doing that system. It is a little different to be a mother on parental leave from Oulu than from that Kamp in Helsinki when you may come to vote on something important. In that sense, I would like to see now:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u25	Mr President! I think it is very good and important that the Council of Presidents has unanimously brought this proposal to this Chamber. First of all, Parliament did quite well with this first wave of interest. The protective measures, the precautions that had to be taken with regard to the current legislation, were introduced. It may be said that it is even an outright, even a small miracle, that there was not a single case of interest in this Parliament in which some of the MPs would have been subjected to quarantine or quarantine conditions and thus had an impact on the work of the Parliament. We had to be prepared for that too, and that is why these precautions were taken. Well, then, at the same time as these precautions were taken, the parliamentary groups, when they met, were very unanimous in stating that we now need to be prepared for this (a) to continue for a long time or (b) to become a second wave, and even in those circumstances, Parliament must be able to act. And even now that there have been these arrangements based on a common agreement between the groups, it would be good if, for example, this kind of distance-based practice could be achieved in order to guarantee the possibility for all representatives to vote if necessary. After all, this week we will probably have the first vote in which all the representatives will vote. This was the very strong consensus of the groups behind it, and I would like to thank Parliament's office for having made this preparation and now have brought this proposal. There have been some concerns and duubies, criticisms of this remote vote in the Chamber. You could actually ask the question, what would be the alternative? What would be the alternative to a situation where we may have a second wave of corona, such as a part or a whole parliamentary group or whole parliamentary groups being quarantined? How would we then secure or pass through the budget, for example, in a situation where we would have a situation like this or, for example, whether it was an opposition or a government. That is why I think it is important that this is now possible, and I would remind you that there are two thresholds. This is a temporary change, and even after that, if this is to be introduced, the Council of Presidents must make a request, ask for the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It would then be up to the House to decide whether this three-month period procedure should be introduced or whether it was four months. It is clear that information security must be in place — and this must be seen through in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — but there was a concern that what if the vote does not represent, there will be a gap in information on some side. This article of the law also states that if the President states that, for one reason or another, the vote did not reach all or does not represent what is in this Parliament, then the President will have the opportunity to take the vote again. So this is a lot of backup valves built. I think it is important that they are, and this is going through again, but this is absolutely necessary because that option is even worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u26	Mr President! It is a very good thing that the Council of Presidents has brought this proposal and that here in Parliament efforts are being made to develop activities and to be positive and optimistic about the future and to be so-called believers in development. Remote working methods certainly need to be developed; this pandemic spring has shown us, and that is what we have been practicing ourselves to a certain extent in this spring. In my opinion, there are, in a way, a number of different levels at which this issue can be addressed. One is this committee work and the arrangements for meetings. Of course, it would be very good if the discussion of the committees could take place as if it were a Teams meeting, and it would be desirable to find such a solution, but at the same time we must remember where this software platform that provides this service is acquired, because, for example, the privacy of the US Constitution does not extend to Finnish parliamentarians or Finnish officials, and if, for example, we have an American company's system of meetings where information is stored in the cloud, then they are inevitably at the disposal of the authorities of the country in question, already on a legislative basis. This is already in the law right now. This is, of course, something that needs to be taken into account, because there may then be leaks of information that we do not necessarily want to leak to the public, but not necessarily to the public. Well, the second aspect is the voting procedure and, in particular, the voting procedure in plenary, which has been given a great deal of attention here. There is no such system at the moment, in other words, it would be a tailor-made job for Parliament — a project of at least EUR 1 million, perhaps more — and I wonder if it is worth paying for if the system is only in use for a year. That's one thing to ask. Well, of course we should have the ability to act if things get so bad that we can't be together. Mr Lindtman asked what would be the alternative to that remote vote, and here we have an explanation, for example one option being a telephone vote, in other words a parliamentary official calling the representative and asking how you will vote. It is a slow mechanism, but it would be essentially more secure than opening a direct pipeline into the parliamentary voting system from that Internet, and I think that this situation should be avoided to the last, because, apart from risking this vote, when we open a new hole in the Internet, we are also trying to use that hole for other purposes of intrusion. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u27	Mr President! It is clear that, as a general rule, work will continue to be carried out in this House, but, on the other hand, this spring has shown that it is quite appropriate to consider how this work can be secured in a situation where it may not be physically safe to come here. I think that this proposal is in principle a good one, and although excellent points have been made here, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should also look at, they are all, in my view, something that can be resolved. I think this is particularly valuable in the sense that, for example, there are people in this House who are at risk from this interest rate, and there are certainly those in this Chamber who have someone at home who belongs to a risk group, and in that sense it is very important to ensure that they are also able to participate in parliamentary work. For myself, I would see that Parliament may not have to reinvent the wheel, but rather take a model from a municipality in which an equal picture and sound connection can be voted on, and at least here in the City Council of Helsinki it has been an excellent success, even though it has 85 delegates. It will take time to vote, but it will be possible to ensure that there is a particular representative at the end of the picture and vote. In that sense, I believe that there are many ways to vote and to try to ensure that there is no one there who has an influence or a gun at the head of the vote. And it would be quite impossible to see a situation in which, for example, a matter of trust in the government could be brought to a remote vote. I would assume that the Bureau will then act and perhaps not vote remotely on such a matter. I believe that this proposal can be supported in the light of the excellent points that have been made here. That is what the Committee on Legal Affairs, of which I am a member, must now praise, in this connection, where during the spring we have managed to deal with the committee's remote meetings in such a way that experts have been consulted and then, at the actual meeting, it is decided that the experts should be consulted. It has worked very well, and for that, of course, I would like to thank the committee advisers and the chairman, Mrs Mere. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u28	Mr President! Indeed, there are good things here, that is, in the proposal, and many doors, as Mr Lindtman mentioned, for example: there is a proposal from the Council of Presidents, the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, and then the Chamber will decide, and even afterwards the President will be able to intervene. So it's well thought out. But I would like to repeat myself on this new committee: if we have a new committee, intelligence legislation requiring a change of constitution, a new committee which, in practice, cannot act at all at the moment, that is, when the new committee is creating, as it were, those models for the future, that work has completely stopped. I do not blame this motion, but I will raise this concern now. When the Constitution was strongly involved in legislative work, there is also such a constitutional aspect of privacy, law enforcement of intelligence control and compliance with legislation. The committee is doing important work and the conditions must be created. Indeed, the situation is that the committee does not currently have a space in which confidential and confidential information can be processed. Representative Talvitie here discussed the matter discussed during the last parliamentary term, i.e. the Government stated in 2016 that Finland is preparing to move to an electronic vote alongside the traditional vote in all elections — not now the work of Parliament but, therefore, beyond the elections — and the report was completed at the end of 2017, a comprehensive report, good work. And then the Minister of Justice It didn't get any better. Not a lot of people did, and neither did I when I read that job. There were considerable risks. I would just like to mention that, for example, in the municipal elections of 2008, three municipalities had an experiment on electronic voting at the polling stations — that was electronic and it was at the polling station, not remotely — and that went wrong too, and it had to be renewed. So these are really sensitive things. And I would like to stress that at no time must there be any suspicion that there has been fraud, manipulation of the results. Just doubt undermines the credibility of democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u29	Mr President! This government proposal does indeed have good points, and I warmly support this. I justify this by saying that, after all, the vote is perhaps what is most important in this debate. In any case, our vote here is an open vote, that is, if I press a button, then I also see it in my vote and therefore I am able to ensure that my vote is logged in as it should be. Mr Kiuru, who has just spoken, raised, for example, these votes in the elections. Of course, there is concern about the fact that it is never possible to ensure that the registered vote has gone where it had to go, but it is possible to do so in our votes. In other words, it is a challenge for a closed system to vote on tickets, and I bet that the Presidents will make sure that this is not the case. I therefore believe that in such tough situations, which could even involve a vote as strict as a one-voted decision, even the government parties and, in particular, the Bureau will not dare to bring such a vote, and it will be possible to leave such a vote on a different point. Conversations face to face and all these things are really all right, and these are by no means to try completely to get rid of. However, this proposal is now talking about a temporary situation in times of crisis, which is not meant to make this a new normal situation. It will be different then sometime in the future when you get into some kind of virtual agency world where we see each other's eye movements and see them wrinkles even bigger than they are now. That may then be another matter, but it is not the immediate future. In other words, I definitely see that even during the crisis we will be able to do more of our work and do not have to leave all things together somewhere in the autumn. I would recommend this performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u30	Mr. Speaker! I think there has been a very high level of debate here on this proposal from the Council of Presidents, and it is appropriate to have a high level when it comes to the exercise of that mandate and mandate given to us by the people. Then we must be fair and united and look forward together to how Finnish democracy works. A comment to a few speakers: there were excellent speeches here: I think that Mr Lindtman has made a good point of saying that, if this is to be introduced, it is just the deadline, a few months to use it, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must also give an opinion on it. In other words, this will also build a firewall so that, on no political grounds, such a procedure and a new practice would not be introduced. Similarly, I still agree with Mr Salmon that I would like to see some form of distance voting, distance participation, also in conditions of peace and normality. I am also referring here to Sitra's reports. Mr Kiuru, Mr Pauli has made an excellent point here in this Committee on Intelligence, in which I myself have had the honour of working with Mr Kiuru. It's gone really well. The newest committee, a very responsible, important committee, is working with security issues, national security, and the procedure is, in principle, secret. Of course, it is a shame, as Mr Kiuru said, that our well-run and well-started work is now somewhat interrupted. There has been no legal omission and no obligations, but Mr Kiuru is right to think about how this Committee of Inquiry will operate under such exceptional circumstances, because, of course, it is impossible to deal with such matters on the Internet. Mr. Speaker! This debate is quite similar to an online voting debate. During the last parliamentary term, I myself was allowed to chair the parliamentary steering group with a report on the online vote. There was a lot of talk about this information security back then. The difference is, of course, that the problem with the online vote was that the election must be secret. When an ordinary person, who is entitled to vote in Finland, the election must be secret, so that it is not known who has voted for the centre and who has voted for Timo Heino, for example. It's got to stay secret. We do not have that problem at this point, but, as many speakers have said, it is really important that it is the representative who votes, and not his own mother, or even the electoral financier. It is very important that there is a representative there to vote and there are no inappropriate circumstances. President! When this debate is often so problematic in this Chamber, I would like to conclude by thanking all the parliamentary groups for their good cooperation during this interest-bearing spring. It has been a big deal that it may have been agreed that only a quarter of them are here in the Chamber, and we should now have plans or estimates.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u31	Mr President! I remember when the communicators came into this house. It was a tremendous innovation. Mr Zyskowicz will certainly remember even better because he has been here during the time we only had landlines. Then later the smartphones came and there was a big debut about whether these smartphones could be on social media. They were talking about whether a congressman could be on Twitter, let alone the minister. Today we are all involved in social media in one way or another. Time will shape the way we work. These communicators and later smartphones have made it possible to work at a distance quite differently from the way they did during the landline. Now we are forced in this new time, in front of the new one to do these digital leaps perhaps a little faster than many have anticipated. In my view, this proposal from the Council of Presidents is certainly to be welcomed. We must take precautions to safeguard the functioning of democracy, and I therefore believe that here we are all prepared to take such greater steps, which, perhaps after ten years, will look very small, and we will consider how someone will then come up with an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u32	Mr. Speaker! This is where the debate has intensified in order to make it possible for Parliament's plenary to vote remotely. It must now be remembered that this current model, in which only one quarter of MPs participate in decision-making, is quite strongly opposed to the basic features of Finnish democracy. After all, we have a personal electoral method that has actually been taken from international models to the furthest: each voter decides not only on the party, but on the person who then comes to the top and is elected in each constituency. The fact that citizens need to be able to monitor their views on key, important issues here in Parliament is linked to this very important system of elections. This has not been achieved in the votes on the basis of this intergroup recommendation. A better answer to Finnish democracy would be to allow remote voting when there is even a more important political issue — if there is such a reason that a significant proportion of representatives cannot be present in the plenary when voting or deciding on matters because of the disease or some other obstacle. Another important aspect: the basic concept of Parliament is that it is talking and personal interaction beyond the political lines, and it is very weak in these remote models, of course, especially in the plenary, but also in these models of committee it is less effective than it is in the personal sphere here. However, despite these duubies, this proposal by the Council of Presidents has been balanced in such a way that this technological neutrality has been explicitly left to it, that a remote vote is required to be held in a safe manner. It may be a telephone connection, a secure telephone connection, or an IT connection. And when that vote becomes public, that which is the position of each representative, then he still has the control possibility that, when the computerized voice is listed here, it can immediately be verified by the representative that if there is any error, a fiba or a foreign player mixed the system with yarns, it can be corrected. With regard to issues such as this, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should certainly draw attention to the fact that there should still be certain exceptional provisions for this purpose, that there should be a correction of possible errors and that it should have its own control mechanism. But this is something that the Constitutional Committee must carefully go through and, nevertheless, enable it to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u33	Mr President! Such remote practices have worked well. I am, of course, giving praise to the whole house, which means that the committees have had excellent distance hearings. I see no problem in that regard, although a few times there have also been good laughs in the committees, because these situations are new and then there have happened and there have been all sorts of nice things. At this point, however, I would like to draw attention to these remote votes. If we go to the votes in this great hall, it is of course great that we look forward and dream of even greater digitalisation, but I will take up that information security: if we think in that way that we are talking here about a remote vote for a large hall, and no one has the slightest idea where we can find a secure way to do so, I would say that we should pay particular attention to this. And the kind of talk that, if and when it comes to this — yes, somehow I would like to clarify the system by which it will be implemented before such decisions are taken at all. I certainly see, as I am sure everyone in this Chamber, that the world is changing and technology is taking over and that there will be a great deal of benefits in the future, and that is precisely through this, as has been mentioned several times in this Chamber, that there are situations in which representatives are unable to get away with disease or so. I would not go along with the hypothesis, as Mr Lindtman said here, for example, that one group would suddenly have fallen ill. I hope this never happens. But let me return to the fact that, in a good spirit, we should start thinking mainly about where we can find that truly secure way of making these votes, and then decide that such decisions should be made. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u34	Mr President! I would attach and underline the point raised by Mr Kiuru regarding this work of the Committee on Intelligence and the acute challenges it poses. This problem of meeting the Committee on Budgetary Control is not directly linked to this proposal, but it is obviously a problem there in relation to the work of the committee, and I hope that the President will take note of this if the Council of President may take the matter into consideration, so that the work can proceed there and they can deal with it in the way they have been set up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u35	Mr President! The proposal is certainly to be welcomed, and yes, when such things are introduced only under extreme exceptional circumstances, it is quite desirable. It is important for Parliament's authority that citizens see that we are here in the Chamber voting on important issues. There is a lot of feedback that the halls are often empty in the evening, but they will probably accept this when it is corona time, that is then less here and could also be voted remotely. Security is important in this, too, but I will give you an example. When the Lahti City Council held a meeting, the votes worked extremely well there. I don't know what the security was, but there was a link to the Teams meeting that was clicked on and logged in. There was a picture of the baton, which is also in the council room, and when you clicked and accepted, a picture came to Teams of the voting map and you saw if it was correct. And did it really fast. The same was the registrations and so forth. Yes, this is easy to develop, but what is the security then, it has to be looked at carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u36	Mr President! This is a very good proposal and a positive one, and it is very important that this issue is taken into account. However, I would like to ask you to take two points into account. In the same way, the Committee on Defence has the situation that we have not been able to deal with all the issues relating to secrecy, because we have not been able to go to the premises in question to meet. Another thing I would ask to note: In my police work I have learned that when you get into tough situations you have to practice those tough situations. In other words, as has happened in many speeches, if we are in such a difficult situation because of the interest rate, whether it is done or not, should we not take into account the fact that we practice these things in advance, that it will not happen like in mask purchases, for example, that we got the wolf and the second by haste? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u37	Mr President! I would encourage all colleagues to look at this report commissioned by the Ministry of Justice from F-Secure, which highlights these problems. Even during this debate, I have followed a little of that social media debate and the concerns of our best cyber experts about the situation, and they are genuinely concerned about what can happen here. As I said earlier, this report concerns electronic voting in the electoral situation, but these threats are nothing more than perhaps different from this one. ‘The most significant risk concerns the possibility of Other serious scenarios concern the possibility of disrupting the online voting system and ‘—the latest—the conduct of the election secret in a vote’, which is not the case with votes in a parliament which are public. But it would be a very special situation — an experienced parliamentarian, Mr Koskinen, raised it — to say that I did not feel this way if there had been a mistake there. Who will draw the conclusion when the government has fallen, that we will start calling, that you did not just accidentally abstain from the vote, or did you even deliberately fail to vote? After all, after all, we are in an endless swamp of pressure when someone in the government parties, even when there is no pressure on the back of the neck in this room, may not vote and the government will fall into it. That would be an extremely difficult situation when the group president of the SDP, Mr Lindtman, would start calling to say why you did not vote, and then say that there was a technical disturbance, and then we would start to find out what the technical disruption was, and so on. [Johannes Koskinen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u38	Mr President! I think it is all right that there are parliamentarians like Mr Heinonen in this Chamber who are also raising the issue of duubies. It is good that we are considering many different aspects of things. I think it is important that the Council of Presidents was unanimous in this matter and this proposal is being discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It is also noteworthy that on the municipal policy side, as many people here have pointed out — I do not know whether Mr Heinonen is involved in municipal politics himself, but I am in the second largest city in Finland in Espoo, where we have had the council voting very well at a distance — the meetings have been held remotely, including the committees, the municipal board meetings have been drawn away, and the closed ballots have also been managed remotely. So we've got the technology. Now, of course, whether or not there are security gaps is a separate issue, but yes, I believe that when we are facing a new one, we must also introduce new instruments, and here in Parliament there has already been some practice in committees, and on the municipal policy side the committees, city boards and councils are already very advanced on this issue. I hope that some of these practices, which have now been introduced both on the municipal side and here in Parliament, will remain permanent. They have made work easier and also diversified. For example, distance consultations have enabled information to be obtained from experts who have not been able to come on the spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u39	Mr President! I have to comment as much as Mr Heinonen came to this. He is practically out of the whole debate and then comes here to criticise this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u44	Mr President! It is repugnant to spread this in Parliament, when it is precisely here that it has been hoped that these debates will not be listened to in the Chamber, but that the speeches will be made here and will be heard in our own study, when we have these remote connections for that very purpose. It is truly regrettable that this is allowed to be spread and spoken in general in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-99.u50	For the sake of clarity, let us now state in this debate that the Council of Presidents of Parliament has stated that it is hoped that the House will have a maximum of about 50 Members of Parliament. It is also a unanimous agreement between the groups. And it will be respected because the parliamentary capacity will continue to be maintained from now on.
