ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u2	Madam President! The production aid scheme under the Renewable Power Production Aid Act is a key support programme to support electricity generation from wind, biogas, wood fuel and forest chips. If the conditions for granting the aid are met, aid shall be granted to the electricity producer. The period of support shall be 12 years. In the case of wind power plants, biogas plants and wood fuel plants, the aid scheme has already been closed, i.e. new power plants will no longer be approved in the support scheme, but aid will be paid to existing power plants until the end of the aid period. Therefore, the aid scheme is still open only for forest chipping power plants, so that new forest chipping power plants can be applied for. The purpose of the aid is to cover the difference between the production costs of electricity produced from forest chips and peat by using forest chips instead of peat in production plants. Therefore, the amount of aid is affected by the peat tax and its allowance cost. However, the importance of the aid has decreased as the price of peat emission allowance and the tax level of peat have increased and thus the amount of aid paid to forest chips has decreased significantly. Since the beginning of 2019, only two quarters of the aid has been paid. Moreover, in the light of current price developments, support would not be paid in the future. Recent data suggest that the use of peat in the thermal power plant will decrease faster than anticipated. We do not have to worry about the competitiveness of forest chips in relation to peat, but about how they can be placed on the market enough to prevent peat from being replaced by imported peat. The proposed legislative amendment would close the production aid scheme for forest chipping power plants by setting a deadline for the submission of an application for approval. According to the draft law, the approval of a forest chipping power plant under the production aid scheme would require the electricity producer to submit an application for approval by 15.3.2021 at the latest. The closure of the aid scheme is to be timed so that the Commission’s approval of the aid scheme is still in force. Since it is originally a fixed-term aid scheme, its closure is not estimated to have an economic impact on public finances. Furthermore, the proposal has no economic impact on electricity producers whose forest chips have been approved under the scheme or approved on the basis of an application submitted by the deadline. Moreover, the economic impact of the draft law on electricity producers who are no longer able to apply for the scheme is estimated to be limited. The amendment is intended to enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u3	Madam President! Of course, it is understandable to drive down production aid for forest chips in the sense that this is linked to the emissions trading mechanism as well as to the pricing of peat. In this context, we need to consider how expensive this government decision on peat is all in all becoming, because, in fact, this government proposal is now trying to fill in the resulting effects. As the Minister has mentioned, the Russian trucks are already running across the border and bringing Russian chips here to burn, and this is now trying to prevent further damage. The future of rural areas wrote in yesterday's editorial that in politics there is often a wolf and a second, and in it it brought out the reminder of Vice-President Marko Vainionpää that peat entrepreneurs need help right now. In other words, when the government has spoken of subsidies and loans from the EU's just transition mechanism, these subsidies and loans are coming too late, because, by this government decision, this turf dismantling has really taken place considerably faster than could be imagined, and now entrepreneurs are really in big, big trouble. Of course, this is also a sensitive question from the point of view of security of supply, what will happen if we really do have such a quick pace with this turf discharge and we get a cold winter next winter and then we do not have the fuel we need for security of supply. Here, on page 4 of the explanatory memorandum to the Government’s proposal, it states: ‘In the 2030s, the main energy end-ups are projected to be inflated, even if they are maintained as a fuel of security of supply. “ Do you think it would be appropriate for the Ministry to correct this argument in this regard, because it is now impossible to see that we have this security of supply issue, because this has now been accelerated by this increase in the peat tax as well as by this floor price mechanism? On the same occasion, I would like to ask the Minister a question while the minister is here. This proposal, its explanatory statement, highlights the protection of property and the freedom to conduct a business — starts on page 10. Where is the property protection and freedom of business of peat producers? Here we are seeking, on the basis of the protection of property and the freedom to conduct a business, the so-called protection of legitimate expectations for these incinerators, when we know that these investments have been made on the basis that they have a certain amortisation period. Now many private entrepreneurs, peat entrepreneurs,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u4	Mr President! There are no additions or comments to this bill as such, but I would like to continue a little reflection on what this energy map will look like in Finland in the future. Now it seems that as the use of energy peat decreases even faster than anticipated, the use of forest chips will increase significantly in the near future in Finnish heating plants. Of course, this will become a whole, while, at the same time, wood is needed for other destinations, as the Minister well knows. We have so-called higher-grade wood products, which, however, should always be the primary use of wood. How does the government intend to solve this equation, which, at the same time, would export more wood chips to combustion plants and, at the same time, the forest industry, on the other hand, needs more wood, hopefully? This is an issue which will indeed be resolved by the government at the same time as the use of energy peat is rapidly decreasing. Mr President! This reduction in the use of energy peat is linked to the situation of these Finnish contractors. There are a lot of people in the field of energy peat in various expert positions who will certainly be employed in other sectors, but these contractors, with their equipment, are all alone in the provinces, and it does not heat up the opportunities for retraining if there is going to be a bankruptcy and the equipment is going to be unnecessary. Preliminary information on this Fair Transition Fund (JTF) indicates that the Fund would be specifically intended for other tasks and sectors. I would therefore ask that if this JTF does not target the needs of the peat contractors in the right way, will the government be prepared to find national solutions, specific measures, to ease the difficult position of these entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u5	Mr President! It was known that this is an ideological emphasis on the taxation of peat, which is completely different from the market view and which, as a decision in itself, represented a decision in which no one asked the concerned, namely the energy industry and the peat producers, and whenever people who actually know about things are not asked, the probability that the decision will go wrong is high, and that is what happened. Of course, these are drastic figures, which are presented — whether they are accurate or not — that the peat producers will suffer 900 million damage, and when Mr Essayah's speech brought up the protection of property and the freedom to conduct a business, there should be some kind of investment protection in every sector. They buy expensive machines, and now they're unused, they're not really good enough, and they don't sell. All in all, it is estimated that this kicking of peat will result in the loss of 3,500 jobs. So I wonder if this tax increase was worth it when emissions trading is already automatically chastising peat and has made this racking mechanism unnecessary as it were? And this is not the end of it when we start browsing these chains of markets a little further from the beginning. When the use of wood chippings increases, it can easily cause forests to be cut too young, and then the whole mechanism will be disrupted, and then there will not be enough logs. There are already signs that forests are being cut too young, and then when this comes to this kind of ideological ban, that forests can no longer be ditched and ditches can not be restored, that is not what should be done. The forest has had a very significant impact on industrial wood management, and drainage, ash fertilisation and other fertilisers must be continued. The drainages only need to be done in such a way that account is taken of the water bodies: made of precipitation tanks and other things like this. I'm going to ask the minister: When this information is at a high level in Finland and the forests have been properly managed, the peatlands have been grown and everything, what is the reason, why the knowledge base that needs to be done cannot be updated and retrieved from the peatlands and applied for in the forest? Why do we have to do a little like a high-level ideological decision when so much damage is being done and the Finnish economy is already in trouble? Yes, you have to ask whether these decisions can actually be withdrawn and the government can turn around, as it were, for even if it does not make up for the damage and does not bring back, it would show a little healthy repentance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u6	Mr President! This rapid shutdown of peat for ideological reasons is particularly serious for us in Ostrobothnia, for example, from two different points of view: one is precisely the perspective of entrepreneurs, that is their jobs, and the other is, for example, an increase in electricity consumption prices, because we are going to have to subdue these power plants, where peat has been an ingredient, and we are now going to have to change them and do it faster than originally thought or what those plants would have demanded. Now we too have been given hopes from the government that JTF could be used. Well, you know exactly that it cannot be given to entrepreneurs, to compensate for their losses. There's no point in pretending to be something that isn't really true. That is why I hope that this issue of peat will now be considered very seriously, because it does not apply to all areas of Finland, and we need to consider how we support entrepreneurship, how we support those jobs, how we can prevent it from going there in terms of electricity prices, and how we can really be confident from the point of view of security of supply. Of course, I understand that there is certainly a time for peat, when other uses are also needed, and there is a great deal of thought about them, but I am really concerned about the activities of entrepreneurs and, above all, about those jobs as well, but also about the livelihoods of entrepreneurs and these electric prices.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u7	Mr President! It is quite right to ask whether this is the green transition: from Russia they import chippings with trucks and from Central Europe poor quality chippings with ships to be burned here in Finland. Once again, there has been too much fast, too bad drafting of the law. Later today we are talking about extending compulsory education, and one of the problems I see here is this too fast a timetable, as is the case in this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u8	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for the presentation and the representatives of Essayah, Sankelo, Risikko, Eestilä and many others for their good contributions. The dismantling of peat has been quite rapid, and we must now seriously consider whether we are going too fast. Security of supply has been raised in this number of speeches, but also the question of civic energy and the impact of local energy on employment in Finland and what will happen in the future. Already the data have told us that wood has been imported to Finland from Russia and Latvia to replace domestic peat, and Sweden has already reported on how wood is to be imported to Sweden from Brazil, for example. The Amazon chip has heated homes in Stockholm, and it has become clear that some of them are at least obtained through illegal logging and land grabbing. I understand that wood has also been imported to Sweden from Mozambique and Spain and, if I have understood correctly, nuts have also been imported into Finland from Africa for burning in these plants. I would like to ask the Minister what the current information is: have Amazon or Mozambique, other African countries, for example, imported fuel for these facilities? It is important to ensure the availability of fuels as the use of peat will decrease in the future. I would also like to ask the Minister for an assessment of your view as to whether Finland is sufficient to replace wood and also, as has been pointed out above, that there would be no burning of wood with better value added elsewhere. Actually, these two big questions: After these African nutshells, have long - range countries — Brazil, Amazon, Mozambique — or other alternative fuels been imported into Finland? And then this sufficiency of domestic wood in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u9	Irade the Talman! Vi diskuterar en proposition som inte annu har trätt i kraft. All den förändring vi ser på marknaden beror i dag på utsläppshandels effekt på industrin. Visst kanske man anar vad som komma skall, men situationen i dagberor på utsläppshandeln. Det är en situation som vi inte Heller till alla delar kan kon controlera.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u10	Mr President! As a climate demo of this kind, of course, I see that all the performances that take Finnish ambition forward on these climate issues are positive. But I would like to ask the Minister what impact assessments have been made in the short term and in the long term for the business of these entrepreneurs. How can we guarantee these people a peaceful mind that the decision-makers here also think of them on these issues, and not that climate issues and the livelihoods of these entrepreneurs are opposed, but that there is actually a symbiosis that takes these two goals towards the kind of Finland we all want to live in?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u11	Madam President! I am surprised at the repeated mention that this would be done for ideological reasons. Yeah, they do it for natural reasons. Peat is a very harmful fuel to the climate and nature,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u14	Mr President! Let me put it bluntly: the uncontrolled dismantling of peat production is a mistake. The least that can be done is to apologize to these entrepreneurs, who personally are responsible for investing in this sector, and who have much at stake and also had faith in the future in this area. What I do not accept is that the assembly here is pious about this matter. Your alternative budget would be to increase these even more, and your group president would like to remove the tax advantage of the peat. But in this respect too, we must be honest. The truth is, the energy market is a mess. You can't explain this, and you don't want to explain it. Energy plants have now also made their choice as to the direction in which this whole energy palette is going. Entrepreneurs need help, that is quite clear, and there are actually a few ways to do so. One is that entrepreneurs are now receiving direct financial support, direct support for businesses. Ways must be found to compensate for the equipment that they may be able to use in the yard in the future, as well as the nevas where there is a great deal of catching up. One entrepreneur may have from hundreds of thousands of euros in the balance sheet to millions of euros in these machines and equipment, and this is a very big problem at the moment. For these entrepreneurs, there must be a view of what their future is and, unfortunately, there is not a very good view at the moment. Of course, as part of the outlook, this JTF fund and what comes through it, but first we need to find ways to compensate companies, these peat entrepreneurs, for the losses they currently have. How to ensure security of supply? That is one of the key questions. We need peat as a fuel for security of supply in the future, but no one only produces security of supply stocks, but we also need to be market-based in order for these entrepreneurs to market their products and thus to be able to produce these security of supply stocks. How will it be ensured that these other uses — peat, peat — will continue to be in production in this country? This also requires raising combustion peat, because very few entrepreneurs are such that they dare to use their environmental permit to take only the top layers off and then leave the rest to their own devices. Of course, alongside this energy peat, we also need it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u15	At this point I would point out that we have spent almost half an hour of what is reserved for this point. At the end of this, I will give Mr Lintilä the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u16	Mr President! Thank you for your comments and questions. It's an infinitely difficult situation on the turf side. What has, of course, been most surprising here is that, during the government negotiations, a record was actually made in the government programme that the use of peat would be at least halved by 2030. Now it has collapsed, is actually in a free drip, and it is, of course, something that goes a long way from the image that has come to peat. Is it deserved or not? At least this fast, it's an out-of-control situation. Of course, this is beginning to go to the point where such a rapid change is about to put our climate strategy at risk. How can this be compensated? Of course, we also have to go for national elements, what can be supported by national elements: is it a first thinning chipping, are there some elements on the Kemera side that could, for example, help the applicant side, and so on? They asked about a foreign application. Last year we had 1.6 million cubic metres from abroad and 6 million from Finland, which means that we are still quite well on the domestic side. It is true, as Mr Risikko said, that this is coming to the various sectors: this is coming to the machinery companies, this is coming to the municipalities and cities there on the energy side and, of course, to the subcontractors across the line. I understand that peat, which came from Russia, has mainly been peat for growth and drought. Congressman Heinonen, who has left the hall, also asked if he was after the nutshells. It is said that from time to time there are these different ships that offer them, but apparently this year at least they have not been so exotic. There have been times, there is knowledge of it, but let's not use ourselves. Surely the key question is how to achieve a genuinely fair transition for these entrepreneurs. In a certain way, this JTF fund will be late and will certainly not cover everything that entrepreneurs expect. Of course, one problem is that we are in a logistical situation where, for example, it is cheaper for Helsinki to get fuel from other continents and biomass from Mikkeli on rubber wheels, which of course brings its own challenge to it. But then, in the run-up to the municipal elections, I would urge everyone to run. Quite a few of these people who use peat or use wood chips are municipal and municipal decision-makers,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u17	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u18	Then let's go back to the beginning of the day. Continue work on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u19	Mr President! In fact, during the day the proceedings were suspended regarding the Government's proposal to amend Article 14 of the Act on aid for the production of electricity produced from renewable energy sources into a law for the Parliament. The purpose of this production aid scheme is to increase the production capacity of electricity produced from renewable energy sources and to improve the competitiveness of forest chips compared to fossil fuels. The aid for the production of forest chips differs from other forms of energy in the scheme so that it can also be applied to existing plants, not just new ones. The purpose of the forest chip production aid scheme was to cover the difference between the production costs of electricity produced from forest chips and peat so that production plants would use forest chips instead of peat. Therefore, the amount of support for forest chipping power plants is affected by, among other things, peat prices, peat taxes and allowances prices. The aid scheme has been approved as a 12-year scheme. However, now that the payment rates for production aid have fallen and the number of electricity producers entering the aid scheme has been low, the Government has put forward a proposal for this. The proposed amendment would close the production aid scheme for the applicant power plants by setting a deadline, and the proposed amendment would require a new application by the electricity producer for the approval of forest chipping power plants by 15 March. It is not stated here that there would be a major economic impact, only that the electricity companies that are not currently involved should apply for new aid by mid-March. Mr President! In today’s discussions, peat and what comes into peat were also mentioned. In my opinion, the increase in the taxation of peat was a mistake, especially in the event of uncontrolled events following its decision. In its own programme, the Government has aimed to halve the energy use of peat by 2030. However, according to reports just made, only 25% of the current production will be left in 25 years, and the energy peat market will collapse before that. The drop is heavy and drives peat entrepreneurs and partly heat plants into distress. Invested investments cannot be used up to the end and production revenues will not be received. The total amount of damage is approximately 900 million. There are also several thousand jobs and some 750 entrepreneurs. The sudden decline in energy use has been boosted by the increase in the price of emissions trading, the reputation of peat and, among other things, by the rapid, sudden decisions taken by Vapo during this autumn to abandon its peat contracts and also its peat areas and also by the energy plants' own decisions about where the energy was sourced, and also by customers' decisions to apply for fossil-free energy sources and forms of energy for both heat and electricity. Events have been so rapid that it even jeopardises the implementation of Finland’s climate strategy. There's also a lot of misinformation in the air. Peat is not going to be discontinued, especially the law is not going to stop peat or, in particular, any other use of peat. But in addition to energy peat, peat is an excellent growth base for domestic plants, especially in greenhouses, as well as antiseptic bedding for domestic and good quality broiler fillets or steak production. The availability of drier, growth and activated carbon peat will be jeopardised and tilted or imported from outside if nothing is done about it. Although the tax increase will only come and will not be in force until the end of the year, the energy market is already a mess. It is imported from abroad by ship, especially cheap Central European bug chips. After all, wood and wood have been imported from Russia for a long time. The only way to limit this has been to ask Russian wood for certification. This has been clarified by several ministers of the economy. The plight of peat entrepreneurs must be eased quickly. Rapid national decisions are expected from the government. These are from a number of points of view in the preparation process, as Minister Lintilä opened earlier this afternoon — good. Solutions will be sought to compensate companies for the loss of investment. Access to Finnish forest chips through Kemera is very important, among other things. We currently have about one million hectares of forest management waste, where we can find wood. In order to ensure security of supply, we need domestic peat in the future, as well as we need to find a solution for growth and dry peat. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Now we need ambition. We must have ambition to promote domestic entrepreneurship and energy. When we do climate change, we must also remember the socio-economic environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u20	Thank you. — Mr Sankelo — absent, Mr Multala — absent. — Representative Up the hill, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u21	Mr President! We are dealing with a Government proposal to the Parliament to amend Article 14 of the Act on aid for the production of electricity produced from renewable energy sources. Earlier today, when the matter was closed and started again, there was peat in the debate, and I too want my opinion in Parliament's books that I will not be accused of a lack of common sense when, with the support of the Centre Party, the left-wing government of Finland ideologically destroys our domestic energy production in advance without having a lower emission substitute for energy sources. Mr President! I appreciate the part of the government that has expressed its opinion on this issue. They're not standing behind this thing that's happening right now. If you switch from burning peat to burning wood chips, will the emissions from the pipe decrease? No, they didn't. If you switch from burning peat to burning wood chips, will the exhaust emissions from the harvesting chain of the material being burned decrease? No, they didn't. If you switch from burning peat to burning wood chips, you import some of the wood chips from abroad. Will emissions from transport be reduced? No, they didn't. Is it true that these emissions from transport are not taken into account at all in the calculations? If we switch from peat burning to wood chips burning and imports part of the wood chips from abroad, where there is no obligation to regenerate the forest, is it then renewable energy imported? Is it possible that some of this rucksack has been made of someone else's woods as looting? And what happens when you stop importing pelts from Russia, what do you put in the nest? Mr President! If we move from burning peat to burning wood chips and imports part of the wood chips from abroad, and possibly there is bugwood among them, is it possible that beetles will be introduced into the forest of our country with imported wood chips that are not in advance in our forests? If we move from burning peat to burning wood chips, what happens to the peat balance of our country? Our peat balance, or peat reserves, is already growing. After all, our peat balance has been growing all along, even though we have been using peat. Based on this growth, peat is renewable. The rest of the peat bog serves as a good breeding ground for the forest. There is a good, nutritious mineral soil under the peat, and the forest that produces it acts as a carbon sink. The human effects of peat should also be taken into account. For years the peat industry has also employed young people who are school drop-outs who have not enjoyed schooling or studying. The peat industry has raised them towards good occupations and a good life. Our government's ideological measures by tightening the taxation of peat cause unemployment. This is about 3,500 to 4,400 people, ten times as many as Kaipola in UPM made unemployment for us. The Prime Minister then asked UPM Pesuse why, at the time of the corona, you are making a decision of this kind, creating 400 unemployed people. Now this same thing happens in the peat industry. The government's ideological actions therefore result in the taxation of peat by tightening unemployment, bankruptcy and the destruction of our security of supply. In Finland, there will be several entrepreneurs making millions of investments in the next few years, who are up to their ears in liquid as a result of the actions of the Finnish Government. Should we not first stop using coal and natural gas? Without the use of energy peat, the price of activated coal produced from peat and peat may also increase so that the production of the above-mentioned products becomes unprofitable. Mr President! We live in Finland. We're freezing in the winter. We must ensure that, under all circumstances, we take good care of our own energy and security of supply. Mr President! There is no way I can understand the narrowness of consciousness here in the majority of the people making decisions, wrecking the security of supply in our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u22	Mr President! This law on this production aid for renewable energy is before us. Once we have created this support system for the application, it has wanted to promote the use of wood chips, the use of bioenergy, we in domestic electricity production, and it has undeniably had an impact. We've got wood energy, we've got waste cuttings, thinnings, and so on, we've got this gold of ours that grows in the forest. But the difficulty in this whole system itself was that this support could also be used for imported wood, especially wood imported from Russia, and this has not really been the case. Now this system will have to be changed for the future, and undoubtedly the solutions that the government has taken with regard to the taxation of peat will affect this. The unfortunate situation is that when the energy market is mixed up, there is an increasing flow of cross-border applications: Russia, the Baltics, Central Europe and so on. Mr. Speaker! In the day I said this peat tax was a mistake. Producers and operators are in a state of uncontrollable transformation at the moment, and in fact this tax decision, which was taken by the government, was the last straw to justify so much to energy companies, but especially to Vapo to make very drastic decisions. This Vapo's activities are very strongly criticised for how they started to operate, because as a state-owned company they have, if anyone has the ultimate responsibility for our business field, our products and our energy system. Let it be said that these producers, these entrepreneurs, the women and men and young people in our local provinces, just as the previous representative referred to jobs, are innocent of this situation, and that is why solutions must be found. Mr. Speaker! I have been allowed to spend ten years in Parliament, and all this time these issues of peat producers have been present in one way or another: when have we been in the ministry with regard to authorisation, to deal with them, to promote them, to correct when taxation, when have we been talking about the fuel race, to ensure that we always have domestic fuel ahead of us, when infra-decisions have been made that peat trucks, chippers, logistics are able to travel, and when investments and related factors have been discussed. Unfortunately, there has been very little in these meetings other than downtowners. I would like to say very strongly about this: the best and the best work has been being done all the time and it has been done to ensure that this domestic energy sector is able to cope. Mr. Speaker! Security of supply doesn't come by itself. There's got to be a view of how we handle security of supply. It involves domestic energy very, very strongly. There are no mere security of supply operators, there are no mere security of supply providers. It also requires market-based production, and in order to be able to provide security of supply for us in the future, we need to have a vision for these entrepreneurs in order to have cash-flow income, so that they have income, so that they can develop their own operations in the long term. We will continue to need other uses for peat, such as litter, peat, activated carbon and so on, but these will require it to be used alongside it, and that is why very serious things are at hand here. Mr. Speaker! We are looking very hard for ways to help this sector. It doesn't help when you're screaming in social media. You can scream God knows how loud it is, but now you have to find those concrete, genuine ways. Are those means, then, direct support for these entrepreneurs for the equipment they may not be using, or is it a state-funded call, or are there different systems for replacing energy forms, for example, to energy plants and supporting this — biogas, for example, is a good example here? We have a lot of technologies and opportunities for the future, but they do not come in the moment, and that is why there must be time for this transition and sufficient living conditions for these players in the sector who are working here. Mr. Speaker! Twenty years ago, however, a critically flawed decision was taken in Parliament when peat was classified as a non-renewable energy form. We would certainly not be in this situation at the moment if we had acted differently then. These are the consequences we are suffering now. We must now live with these consequences, find the best possible solutions and ensure that this domestic energy is always ahead of imported energy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u23	Irade the Talman! An excellent speech has just been made from Mr Savola, and Mr Pirttilahti and many others have also spoken well. I don't want to prolong the debate in that sense. However, I do not think it is appropriate to overdramatise this last decision on peat either. It is true that the markets and operators, and also emissions trading, have made sure that the use of peat has fallen in any case and even more quickly than those targets mentioned in the government negotiations have been. So this is just an unfortunate fact. I am also well acquainted with many urban energy companies, and perhaps, as a matter of principle, I would like to say that when something is more or less banned or made impossible, then it must also be supported, because it is a question of property protection, investment protection and freedom of business. The same applies to those plants which now want to give up the burning of coal in advance. If you have a technical life span at the institutions, but you still want to drive down early, by 25, then you also need to support them. So if I forbid Mr Pirttilahti to use his own car, then it is not right that I should then pay for the support of Mr Savola, even if he is able to make some fine project application and demonstrate something. Yes, it must be precise and also by other means to support renewables. Mr Adlercreutz spoke earlier, among other things, that these electric boilers and resistors should be brought into the lower tax category. In practice, this means, among other things, that heat storage can be heated with cheap wind power. When the wind winds and the electricity is not needed, it can be heated up to heat the city on cold days. These kinds of heat stores exist in Helsinki and Vaasa and elsewhere. This is a complex and versatile palette, and it needs to look at these different blocks with the eye and sense, but above all also to support those who then have to give up on a number of points of sound business, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u24	Mr President! It is easy to agree with Mr Savola's analytical speech. There was nothing else in it that I cannot agree with but the fact that only the Central Party has been involved in this matter. As one government party, the Central Party has pushed us into this situation. Indeed, it is sad that, with the tax solution, we have, in a way, been led to the fact that we are in a situation where we are now at a much faster rate than the intended halving of peat use. Now would be the place to look in the mirror. During the last parliamentary term, we made decisions on the taxi law, and now they are being corrected. Perhaps it would be possible to take corrective action even now under this government and not to wait for the next government. It is sad — this decision now shows it — that material wood is being burned. It is neither good for anyone nor in any way in line with Finnish climate policy. As far as Agenda 2030 is concerned, we already have a sustainable economy, we are developing a circular economy and we are trying to be pioneers in our sustainable use of renewable resources, but now this solution does not seem to have such an impact. If I put it ugly when I put it in a little shape, we'll pee in our own boot with our own goals. What Vapo did was well highlighted in the above speeches. A few dozen district heating plants were sold out of Vapo's own business. I do not know what the real conclusion is: if you get thirty times the sum of the operating margin for sales, is that the starting point, or was it seen in the company that it is now good to cash in and give it to a multinational venture investor operating from France? Well, I hope it doesn't become Caruna 2 for Seinäjoki, which heats 75% with district heat and peat as raw material. What should have been done or what should have been done is indeed a terriblely important reflection. If, as a hundred people, I myself am wondering — we in northern Finland have a great deal of activity with regard to combustion peat — then we must see what we have in terms of animal welfare. Chicken farming in Satakunta is very high. We have growing peat as an export product from Finland, a very important part of our clean food growing platform when we talk about what is brought through the supermarkets to our own table. In Satakunta, we make acoustics records. And it's all based on the fact that we have peat production, energy production, and the side stream generated by this extraction of combustion peat is a key business. Especially as a bedding of animals, it is quite remarkable. I am justified by the fact that other methods and equivalent bedding will be on the market at some point — at some point. There is still no substitute for the fact that we have such good material for ruminants and horses as peat. Mr President! It must also be said that we are not getting the EU, whether, now, JTF funding helped those entrepreneurs who are now, so to speak, forced to put their businesses on the shelf or face bankruptcy. There's no help coming from there. It is intended regionally to give up peat production and to create new opportunities to give up peat production, but not for those who are now in a situation where their machinery and equipment are still under debt at this stage and there is no evidence of how to get these debts paid. I'm sad about that. Finally, the application from Germany comes from the area of forest pests here in our ports. Hopefully they will not conquer our forests, because whatever it is, whether it is a protected forest or an economic forest, they will not select it but will destroy it regardless of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u25	I now say that I shall confine the debate to the precise subject of the amendment of Article 14 of this Act on aid for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources. I understand the need for a debate in this respect, but this has now been over quite a number of times today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u26	Mr. Speaker! To begin with, I would just like to say to Mrs Myllykoski when you referred to the fact that we, as a party, have been pushing the situation to this point: I appreciate Mrs Myllykoski very much. In the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, we have been working very well together all the time. Unfortunately, these matters, which are decided by the party leadership, for example, for you, are not always what we think regionally about these matters. One hundred municipalities, South Ostrobothnia, Ostrobothnia, North Ostrobothnia and so on are the sufferers of this issue. Mr. Speaker! This support for forest chips: Once this support for forest chips has been available for this wood imported from Russia, it is causing us a sort of market disturbance in the sense that our own applicants are not employed to such an extent. They have their own equipment under capacity, and this undercapacity is particularly emphasised at the moment when these energy companies bring goods to us in this country. After all, they are very cheaply receiving wood from Central Europe from the forest disaster area, which is now burning in a very large number of heating plants in this country. That is what must be replaced, and that is why this turf element, which is also mentioned in this government proposal, is at the heart of the matter, because this application aid, which will now be limited, is intended to take account of this difference in peat as well. The only thing I want to say about freedom is that the withdrawal of Vapo from responsibility is extremely regrettable, not only in relation to this outsourcing in the district heating business, but also in the fact that these neo who have been decommissioned are being cut off from the equipment that entrepreneurs have used there and which Vapo owns, and it is actually going to be scrap iron, even if it is able to benefit entrepreneurs from it. By matching these environmental impacts, which will come from this, when this shutdown of peat production is out of control, does not contribute to our environment and does not contribute to our climate. That is why in all these energy issues, in terms of bioenergy and peat, we need to think more about this whole, and that is why we still have a lot of work to do together to find a balance here, and that is what we are doing together with entrepreneurs and producers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u27	Värderade Talman! Vi behandlar alltså regeringens proposition till riksdage med förslag till lag om ändring av 14 § i lagen om stöd till production av el från förnybara energikällor. Riktigt kort ännu bara på svenska: diskussionen gled väldigt långt in rai på torven tidigare, och jag vill bara säga att man inte Heller ska dramatisera regeringens skattebeslut i den tor frågan eftersom marknaden och utsläppshandeln nog antar om att användningen av torv kraftigt går ner. Däremot är det viktigt att man nu också stödjer dem som dramas. Det är oerhört viktigt, och det ville jag lägga till ännu till den tidigare talenten, och är har också svenska folkpartiet varietyt activ och inser betydelsen av försörjningsberedskap med tanke på torven som ett inhemskt bransle, så vi ska göra allt vi kan för att minimera de negativa effekterna.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u28	Mr President! Indeed, heat production and electricity production are at stake here, and I am really concerned about the way in which these CHP plants are currently being refuelled. Whether it comes with domestic energy or it comes with foreign energy, but we should have a good investment perspective for these heating and power plants, and this support gives it one chance. Where, when there is shared use, we get the best possible efficiency from that wood pulp, energy. We are clearly approaching 90% when we can make long-term investments and then take heat and electricity out of it at the same time. So here too, when we use valuable wood for heat production, it is also used as efficiently as possible. Let us hope that this form of support will continue and contribute to it. Mr Myllykoski raised this fund for a fair transition, and this is also an important issue for applying here in the sense that if we can turn peat production into machinery and people, so to speak, into suppliers of the applicant side, then we will secure the supply of domestic energy for these plants. That's the point. In this JTF only now it seems that this would not affect Pirkanmaa but would go away from it, I really hope that smaller regional units than the region or provinces will be used here, so that the municipalities will also be involved so that this funding can be used for this fair transition also in these peat productions in Pirkanmaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u29	Thank you — and Mr Mäenpää. Let's focus on this section 14.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u30	Mr President! In this debate several times have been referred to the sudden movements of Vapo. Vapohan has sold a fully owned company offering district heat and industrial energy solutions. At least with the information I have, Vapo has, as it were, been forced to do so under government decisions. They have had to sell the company to finance the development of activated coal from peat. According to my information about the company, the Government, that is, the Government of Finland, has blessed this trade. The Prime Minister has been aware of this and has been aware of the Minister of Corporate Governance. I think this is an unfortunate decision, but I understand the company's management, which has had to make this kind of decision, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u31	Thank you. — Representative Myllykoski. Section 14.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u32	Mr President! Let's try to stick to the section. It is particularly important to note that, at least in my own speech, I did not refer to Vapo as such in relation to this article, the issue is that a limited liability company takes decisions in accordance with the law of a limited liability company. It is not possible for us to decide through ownership control what is actually done in a limited liability company. In this situation, it needs to recognise that the company is making important decisions in the company's interest. If some goals have been set in the company’s order, then we should follow them. That's all I've got here. I had to ask for the floor again: Mr Pirttilahti, we in Satakunta, as a province, are trying to ensure that the peatlands of Pirkanmaa are included in this, and together we are taking it forward. This is such a groping promise.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u33	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u34	Madam President! Business Finland Venture Capital Oy is a special task company wholly owned by the Finnish State. The purpose of the company is to develop the venture capital market in Finland by correcting shortcomings in the provision of early-stage financing by companies. The company carries out its task by investing in private equity funds, which in turn invest in start-up companies. In order to promote the attractiveness of the start-up phase funds as an investment by private investors, the company may, in accordance with its State aid scheme, waive some of its revenues in favour of private investors. The total amount of investment commitments given by Business Finland Venture Capital Oy is EUR 64.4 million and the total amount of the underlying funds is EUR 184 million. The venture capital funds invested in the company have invested in approximately 250 companies. Fund investments involving State aid are based on the State aid programme of Business Finland Venture Capital Ltd. The previous State aid programme was in force until the end of November 2020. The new aid scheme has been put into effect from 1 December 2020 in accordance with the extension of the General Block Exemption Regulation until the end of 2023. The State Aid Programme defines how the provisions of the General Block Exemption Regulation apply to the investment activities of Business Finland Venture Capital Oy, taking into account the relevant national legislation. The potential State aid related to the financial investments of Business Finland Venture Capital Oy, asymmetry of profit distribution, will benefit private investors of the target funds. Nevertheless, State aid is considered to be targeted at the undertakings invested in the funds. The undertaking or its investment must comply with the requirements of both the company’s State aid scheme and the General Block Exemption Regulation. However, the legislation concerning Business Finland Venture Capital Oy does not provide for the recovery of State aid linked to the company’s investment activities, the suspension of the aid or the obligation on the beneficiary to pay interest on the State aid recovered. The Government’s proposal would include provisions on recovery, appeals for recovery and the obligation to pay interest to the State aid recovered.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u35	Madam President! I must say that it was a surprise to me that we really did not have any provisions on recovery in relation to this business Finland Venture Capital investment activity. Surely the introduction of these recovery provisions is the right thing to do, and that is what must be done. But then, when I look at this government proposal, it says that this recovery is nevertheless taking place on the side of the Innovation Finance Centre Business Finland, and then when we see what the impact is on the functioning of the authorities, it is stated that this should not have any major impact. Well, it probably depends on the amount of these recoveries to be made, but I could imagine that these recoveries are not quite simple things and there may be objections, and certainly that evidence and other things are involved. I would have liked it if the Minister had been able to open this up a little bit, if it is really the case that there is no need for additional resources in this area and that this is going to be done in exactly this way. The second point that I would like to draw attention to here, too, is that the Ministry of Justice has, however, begun to consider whether this law can be made retrospectively effective, and here I am sure the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is now in the position to weigh this up. Of course, I would have liked to have heard a little about this too, as this ban on retroactive legislation is, in fact, a ban under the general rule of law. In that sense, the points where we start to think about this issue must always be carefully considered and seen whether there will then be different precedents and similar situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u36	Minister Lintilä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u37	Mr President! Mr Essayah had good points. Unfortunately, I am not fully able to answer them. I understand that this need for additional resources — or if it is not necessary to say so — is due to the fact that this number of recoveries is very small. And that, of course, is the fact that these have already gone through the mill, and if they do, then at that point we will be talking about individual pieces, so that they can be managed with the own resources of Business Finland. This retroactivity is a question which has apparently now been dealt with in legal terms, and I fully agree that retroactivity is a very exceptional piece of legislation. I remember that sometimes I have been in this house drafting a law — but I do not remember it at all — where it is, but, for example, on the tax law side it always comes to the point of using retroactivity, there may have been some. In this respect, I will leave the answer and decision-making to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u38	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SIVM 15/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Chairman of the committee, representative Risikko, presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u39	Mr President! The Education Committee has indeed completed its report on compulsory education reform. The committee decided to propose that Parliament approve the government proposal as amended. A key proposal to extend compulsory education to 18 years of age was proposed. This means that compulsory education will continue until the age of 18. At the same time, secondary education becomes free of charge for students covered by extended compulsory education. Guidance will be strengthened and joint training developed. The reform is expected to enter into force on 1 August 2021. This would apply for the first time to young people who finish basic education in spring 2021, mainly those born in 2005 and enter into force one age group at a time. The aim of the reform is to raise the level of education and skills, reduce learning gaps and increase educational equality and equality. The expansion of compulsory education also aims to increase the employment rate, which is currently around 15% without secondary education, and this is a good goal for all to achieve at least secondary education. Extending the compulsory education age means, among other things, that young people who decide on basic education have an obligation to apply for and pursue secondary education, upper secondary school or vocational education after basic education. A young person can also complete his/her compulsory education in education that enhances the learning capacity of upper secondary education, such as preparatory education for qualifications or at a folk high school. The guidance and support of young people in the joint phase of basic education and subsequent education will be strengthened. The right of free access and the student selection related to it will remain. Ultimately, the municipality of residence of a young person shows a place to study for a young person who does not have it. The extension of compulsory education also requires an extension of the free provision of education. The education is free of charge today, but the reform mainly means that the learning materials and the travels required for the study are free of charge for the learner — of course they also have limitations. These rights continue after the age of 18 until the completion of compulsory education studies but end at the end of the calendar year at the latest when the student reaches the age of 20. However, free of charge are not instruments, sports equipment or similar equipment necessary for the student's personal use for special hobby training, which the student can also use other than in connection with teaching. In particular, the Education Committee presented amendments to the draft law aimed at strengthening the legal protection of young people, such as the identification of a place of study after basic education and the needs of disabled people and other young people with special needs. Such amendments include the right of disabled students to receive adequate guidance and advice on how to apply for support for the completion of their studies, and the need to identify a place of study, such as taking into account the needs of the young person’s personal wishes or demanding special support. Two rejections and objections were made on the bill. Let me say a few more words about these details. After all, the government's proposal originally proposed the adoption of a compulsory education law, which brings together the legislation on compulsory education and provides for the free movement of secondary education and is intended to enter into force on 1 August 2021. A law on preparatory education for qualifications, combined with additional education in basic education, preparatory education for upper secondary school education and preparatory education for vocational education, is also foreseen. It was also proposed to amend the Basic Education Act, the Upper Secondary Education Act, the Law on Vocational Education, the Law on Free Education and Culture, the Law on Financing Education and Culture, the Law on National Registers of Studies and Qualifications, the Law on School Travel Support, the Student Support Act, the Law on Student Education and certain other laws in which the rights and obligations laid down relate to compulsory schooling. Compulsory education begins in the same way as it is today in the year when the child turns seven, with the exception of extended compulsory education in accordance with the Basic Education Act. Compulsory education ends when a young person reaches the age of 18 or before completing a secondary degree, either a matriculation examination or a vocational qualification. After completing basic education, a compulsory student has an obligation to apply for secondary education. The requirement to apply ends when the student receives a place of study and begins studies. After basic education, compulsory education is primarily performed in upper secondary school or vocational education. Compulsory education can also be performed in preparatory education for qualifications, in education for those who are required to study in folk high schools, in preparatory education for work or independent living, and in certain situations in basic adult education, and can be performed by Sami people during the academic education of the educational centre of the Saami region. Studies in compulsory education must make sufficient progress as provided for in the relevant education law. The compulsory education, guardian or other legal representative shall ensure that compulsory education is completed. The organiser of the education is obliged to inform the guardian if the compulsory education is not progressing sufficiently. If the dependant of a compulsory student intentionally or grossly negligently neglects his or her duty to supervise the performance of compulsory education, he or she may be fined for failing to exercise compulsory supervision. No sanctions are imposed on the learner himself for neglecting compulsory education. A compulsory student has the right to suspend the compulsory education for a limited period of time 1) if, because of a long-term illness or disability preventing compulsory education, this is found to be the case, 2) during paternity, maternity or parental leave or 3) during temporary stay abroad for at least one month, if the compulsory education is completed abroad or if he or she is otherwise considered to be required to do so during his or her stay abroad, 4) because of any other weighty reason relating to the situation in which he or she is unable to perform compulsory education, such compulsory education may also be suspended. Before making a decision, however, the first and fourth paragraphs must determine whether compulsory education is possible by means of individual choices, individualisation, necessary support measures or reasonable adjustments. The performance of compulsory education may also be suspended for an indefinite period if the obstacle referred to in the first paragraph is of a lasting nature. New responsibilities for the supervision and supervision of the compulsory learner are proposed for the organisers of education and training, as well as for the household of the obligator. Guidance and supervision responsibilities will be used to strengthen the guidance and support received by young people under 18 years of age, especially at the time of applying for education and in the event of interruptions. This responsibility for control and control has been built on the so-called exchange principle. This will ensure that a young person who is subject to education does not fall outside the support network at any time. Then a few words about this new joint training package, which is now coming to 22. Preparatory education for qualifications, known as TUVA, is combined with existing joint education between basic and secondary education, i.e. supplementary education for basic education, preparatory education for upper secondary education and preparatory education for vocational education. The aim of the new training package is to provide the ability to apply for and complete a degree with a degree goal and to clarify the student’s further study and career plans. A new set of preparatory education would be intended both for those who are required to study and for those who need further education. The most difficult training for disabled students to prepare for work and independent living, the so-called TELMA training, would remain the same. After all, the funding has remained exactly the same, that is to say the 129 million as a whole, but the government is still making such a change to the fact that in the first year, i.e. 21, it will not be 22 million but 26.75 million, and it will then be taken out of that year in 2023, when 107 million will be replaced by 102.25 million, but, in total, that 129 million will be cumulated within the 2024 framework. With these accompanying words, I have now presented this report. After all, there were 22 proposals for statements in this report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u40	Madam President! Next year it will be a hundred years since perhaps one of the most important decisions in Finnish history: in 1921, compulsory education was provided for. That was the long way to take care of the education, education, knowledge of the entire population. Over 50 years ago, in 1968, comprehensive school was enacted by law. Comprehensive school has perhaps been the most important factor in equal opportunities in Finnish society. Education has been the way in which one of the poorest and most remote countries in Europe has become one of the richest, most prosperous, happiest countries in the world over decades. My friends, because the reform of comprehensive school 52 years ago was of enormous importance to what Finland is today. It made it possible for all backgrounds in a completely new way to be able to go further through their own abilities, their own desires, their own motivation. Education has been the key to building Finnish society. My friends! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Madam President! One hundred years of compulsory education, more than 50 years of comprehensive school, we are now introducing the most important reform of education policy into 50 years by extending compulsory education to 18 years of age. Why is this so significant, why are we doing this? At the time of the adoption of the comprehensive school law, they wanted to ensure that every child and young person received adequate education to be able to survive in life, to be able to do well in the labour market. Today, a mere primary school degree is no longer enough. It is difficult to find a job, difficult to find a place in our society, just based on a comprehensive school degree. As the chairman of the committee, Mr Risikko, said, about 15 per cent will be left without a secondary degree — a upper secondary school or a vocational qualification. If you look at employment for those who only have a basic degree, the employment rate is about 40%, while for those who have completed secondary education, it is 70% to 90%. This is an important piece of legislation for individuals, young people, an important reform that takes care of young people, supporting young people but also ensuring that young people do not fall. But there is also a great social significance here: every young person who has been excluded will be very expensive to society, and it will be very expensive for society if they do not have the capacity to work and their future career will become permanent, filled with unemployment, as is unfortunately the case today with a basic school degree alone. So, friends, this is a reform of education policy, this is an important social equality reform, but it is also a reform of employment. Madam President! There are long curves in politics, there are rarely major reforms in politics quickly, there are often painfully slow policies, but when you work decisively when you believe in things when you do research, justify and raise things up again and again in the debate, things change. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, raising the compulsory education age to 18 years is a matter of this kind. In 1999, the Left Alliance adopted a new programme on education and training policy, and I was the chairman of this group on education policy. Then, for the first time, we recorded the goal of raising the compulsory education age to 18 — more than 20 years ago. In 2009, our parliamentary group adopted the first initiative on raising the compulsory education age, more than 10 years ago, and since then we have taken this into the government programme, we have made legislative proposals on this, and now it is the committee's report in this Chamber. At first, support was not great, but gradually more and more people have understood the importance of this reform to society and, above all, the importance of this reform for individuals. Madam President! This is an historic day, this is an important day, this is a day that follows the compulsory education law of 1921, the basic education law of 1968 — and now, in 2020, we will decide to increase compulsory education to 18 years. Back in 1968, comprehensive school reform received a lot of criticism, even heavy criticisms, but hardly anyone today is criticising that decision. I believe that history will also show the importance of today and of this reform for all Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u41	I noticed a moment ago that there is a desire to have a debate on this, so we are going to start a debate on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u42	Madam Speaker! Comprehensive school is now accessible to children and young people who are very weak in skills and capabilities. The reasons are partly related to the teaching philosophy of independent learning, in part to the fact that student material is becoming increasingly challenging. Many of those who have applied for a second degree will not survive there, for example, due to the lack of local education and student care. In this situation, it is a little strange that the government wants to spend money on free-of-charge learning materials, which most of us do not need. It is right to say that this is a transfer from the poor to the well-paid and, of course, to the publishers. This debate has been taking place for a long time and it has certainly become clear that everyone is concerned about young people who do not have a secondary degree. The question is whether this reform will hit the causes of drop-out — no — and whether the reform will even have a negative impact on the objective — yes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u43	Mr President! Perhaps it should now be said to Mrs Halla-aho that, in her statement to the Committee on Education, Jani Erola, a professor of education in Turku, said, somewhat unexpectedly, to me at least, that she felt that this issue was more important than raising the age of compulsory education. And the investigation is in favour of this. We have between 10% and 15% of children and young people who are responding to the fact that the financial situation of the family is having an impact on the start-up and discontinuation of education. We know that, unfortunately, the poverty of families with children has increased over the last 10 to 15 years. Easily this house closes its eyes, and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u44	Mr Gustafsson and everyone else, I would point out that one minute is one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u45	Madam President! I am very pleased that this extension of compulsory schooling is accompanied by this free of charge. As we discussed this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is a very critical part of the fact that our young people have the opportunity to study as long as possible and to have sufficient skills for working life. According to the youth barometer, 17 per cent of young people feel that they have had to reduce study options due to lack of money, 14 per cent choose a place of education on economic grounds, and 11 per cent delay their graduation due to lack of money. I find it quite incontrovertible, based on the answers of young people, that money really affects the choice of study. At the same time, I think it is important that this reform does not exclude forms of study which require a particular hobby, such as a pilot licence or a driving licence.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u46	Mr President! Our goal is for each young person to complete a secondary degree. The Government's compulsory education model has been developed in a hurry, without testing or extensive research base, without consulting experts. The model does not respond to the skills gap that starts with basic education and the reasons for dropping out of studies — it has become clear in the committee hearing, in the Committee on Culture. Last time today, the Chairman of the OAJ referred to this by saying that it does not matter whether or not compulsory education is extended. These young people affected by the skills gap will not be able to cope. This is a pretty harsh statement. Why didn't the government listen to the experts?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u49	Mr President! The opposition’s alternative to compulsory education reform is to take measures, including the learning guarantee, to reform comprehensive school so that everyone reaches adequate conditions for secondary education. These are very good ideas. We in the government are, of course, in favour of them, but they are not an alternative to compulsory education reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u52	Mr President! In the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the Finns submitted an objection to the report. We share the government's goal that as many young people as possible should complete secondary education. However, that is not the solution to this reform. Mr President! The key problem is the growing number of young people whose basic skills are not sufficient for second grade. It is therefore necessary for comprehensive school to have a learning guarantee that guarantees each student the basic skills needed at the second level and the support services so that they can have these basic skills for themselves. The government proposal does not provide sufficient funding for primary education. In fact, the Finns of Peru submitted a month of learning to comprehensive school in committee, but the government parties voted against this in committee. I am greatly surprised at this. Why did you vote against the learning moon?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u53	Mr President! This government also invests in early support and the entire training path. Early intervention in the burdening factors of childhood prevents the emergence of mental health problems and learning difficulties. That is why we in the government have restored to all children the right to early childhood education and reduced the fees for early childhood education. Nearly one third of high school students say that your study costs cause concern in the family, and that is too much. Concerns about the family’s livelihood because of their own education will not at least reduce the already great pressures of high school students. Too often, costs become an obstacle to the wishes and dreams of a young person. With the reform of compulsory education, this will no longer be the case. Education is not only an opportunity to become more involved in working life, but at the same time an opportunity to create security for young people and to strengthen their entire well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u54	Mr President! What really annoys me is that the government has not listened to the teacher and the people who are in the clay with regard to these very things. They have taken a position on both the content and this implementation schedule. Then there is one such detail: as a rule, the second stage has three age groups, but now only one age group is paid travels and materials. What do you say to their parents or to these young people when they are not paid but only to one age group in the same school? And also not to be paid to those adult students who are in the same education, what do you say to them? I do not think it is equal, and this is likely to come before us yet to be corrected. But does the end justify the means, as in this whole reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u55	Mr President! It seems strange to listen to criticism from that side of the opposition when the previous government cut out estimates of education, depending on the method of calculation, by almost EUR 700 million, and this government makes a substantial, historical contribution to every stage of the learning process.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u56	Madam President! There have been many debates here, both in the referral debate and here today, about the fact that this Chamber is united in the fact that we see the objective of this reform as very important and we want every young person in Finland to achieve it in secondary school. But in the opposition we believe that this is the wrong way. Here Mr Gustafsson made a good point, which has also been pointed out in expert opinions, that it would be even more important to ensure that it is free of charge than to go in a categorical manner to increase the compulsory age, and that is what we have the opportunity to do. This is what we have the opportunity to do, which means we have a study material supplement. We also had a debate on this last period here in the Chamber. In their own alternative budget, the Christian Democrats have brought additional funding and want it to be expanded, extended to more and more young people. In that way we would avoid all the difficulties that come from this categorical increase in compulsory schooling age.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u57	Madam President! This is indeed a historic day. The Finnish Parliament makes important history for the future of our nation. I have now heard these speeches. From the viewpoint of the Coalition Party, the Finns and the Christian Democrats, it has been constantly heard that extending compulsory education is too expensive and funding for the most low-income people should be allocated instead of free of charge. Free of charge is an absolutely essential issue that brings our young people equally and equally into the field of education. Their ability to study is no longer dependent on whether their parents are unemployed or whether the family has poverty or financial problems, and this type of free-of-charge is therefore an essential part of the whole. Similarly, this training enables each child and young person to receive the necessary support elements, student guidance
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u58	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Barnombudsmannen noterade i hörandet som vi hade i kulturutskottet att ju mer Hon bekantar sig med det rauta lagförslaget, desto mer tycker Hon om det rai förslaget — att det är bra. Nästan var stätte ungdom blir utan yrke och jobb efter grundskolan, och det är en mycket stor utmaning då 40 percent av dem som enbart har grundskoleexamen är i jobb. Men genom att vi nu höjer läroplikten från 16 till 18år vi hjälpa till att motarbeta marginalising och så att fler kommer ut i arbetslivet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u59	Madam President! I am surprised, for example, by Mrs Halla-aho's speech that this is a transfer to the good people. If so, is the current free transfer of basic education to the good? And if so, do you think that we should compromise on the freeness of basic education? The Centre considers the increase in compulsory education to be a very practical and common sense reform. The demands of our working life have increased, and in today's world it is almost impossible to get along without the knowledge of a secondary degree. Many economists, the Institute for Economic Research and the Vesa Vipriälä-led task force for economic reconstruction have also recommended an increase in the compulsory age, and this is what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u60	Mr President! I understand from Mr Arhinmäki that this has indeed been a long-term objective for the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u65	Madam President! The government's proposal to extend compulsory education is a real future act that will contribute to a better future for children and young people. Today, on that end wall, you can look at the statue of the future above the speaker and the child in the arms that shakes your hand with good cheer. The extension of compulsory education age therefore also includes the second-degree freedom of charge, which is a big hand-out for many families, especially low-income families, whose small incomes are caused by children's study materials and the purchase of books and machines, and this is a real problem. According to the youth barometer 2018, up to a quarter of those who dropped out of secondary education reported that the lack of money was contributing to the lack of studies, and nearly half of young people without a degree and a place of education have had to reduce or give up their studies due to a lack of money. The argument that people with low incomes are receiving social assistance even now, if necessary, when they apply for the study equipment, seems to be rather poor here. This is a big act of equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u66	Mr President! Education is the best insurance against unemployment, and the achievement of secondary education is a goal for every young person. I am sure that we will all share this objective. However, the method chosen by the government was not correctly targeted. Is it equality to give the same to everyone or to give everyone as necessary? The criticism is therefore directed at what the money will be spent on in the reform. Already, some 4,000 young people fall from primary school or compulsory education each year. It is therefore questionable whether the extension of compulsory education is the way in which these young people can be brought to the second stage, or whether it would be better to allocate resources, as Mr Lukekas, President of the OAJ, said today, to that point in order to strengthen primary school. Of course, in the government's answer, you do this, but not enough, and not just on a fixed-term basis. The second risk, which is linked to this, is a very urgent timetable,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u67	Madam President! In recent years and decades, a number of attempts have been made to control exclusion. The reform is based on the fact that every young person is valuable regardless of the background, so everyone wants to be involved. Society is given the task of keeping young people on the school path until the age of adulthood, and the right of young people to learn is extended to the period after comprehensive school. The reform will be carried out in a flexible way, as requested by the Centre: each school path will be tailored according to its strengths, and the young people will be escorted over the joint phase. The school path can continue in the form of a vocational school, upper secondary school or preparatory education, but also as an apprenticeship at work or on the long lines of folk high schools where you can look for your strengths and strengthen life management. And support measures are being taken all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u68	Madam President! I have no objection at all to the reform of the government for ideological reasons but for practical reasons, because it does not address the problems that have often been raised here and which I think should be addressed much more strongly, for example by transferring all the funding that goes into this reform, to these real problems in schools. Free of charge is the better half of this reform and should have been removed from this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u71	Madam President! In the midst of all this criticism and debate, I think we should ask ourselves whether we have any other options than to try to ensure that each young person has at least secondary education in the future. I don't think so. The tasks will become increasingly complex in the future and require competence, which in turn will require longer training and diverse skills as well as understanding. If we do not have these skills, there is no basis for this, and we also know that young people will have fewer opportunities, and we also know that the risk of exclusion will increase. If we really understand these facts, I think it is only right that we should legislate in such a way that everyone has a real chance to complete at least that secondary education. The fact that we make it compulsory for education providers to enable and demonstrate to all students a place of study after comprehensive school and the obligation for young people to carry it out,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u72	Madam President! I propose that this extension of compulsory education, a very problematic proposal, be rejected. Why? Because it's a training cut. In Helsinki, some of them have been tried for free, and our experts say that this proposal is 40% more expensive than the government claims. This leads to cuts in education in municipalities. It is those who need help who suffer the most. Chairman of the OAJ Luke finally said it out loud: nothing will help if compulsory education is extended when young people who do not have sufficient knowledge and skills fall. It's not too late. Let us listen to teachers, reject this proposal and take the option of a convention that invests in a sustainable way, not in fixed-term money, as your funding, but in sustainable, budget-based resources for early childhood education, basic education and support for children and young people in time. I very much hope that you will now listen in your heart and come to this position.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u73	Mr President! This is a truly historic reform in the history of Finnish education policy, the most historic since the comprehensive school reform. However, although this is a different matter, it seems that the arrangements here are quite similar politically than they were then. Mr President! It has been suggested in this debate that this extension of compulsory education and free of charge would somehow be out of basic education or early stage, for example. That's not the case at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u74	Mr President! History is made, no matter what the cost, that's what this sounds like.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u77	Mr President! As a member of the OAJ, I support this proposal. If, in financial terms, we consider this whole and compare the contributions of the Coalition Party with tax reductions, this is very small. You can think of this a little as a tax reduction for families who do not need this money — they can now use the money that has gone into its learning materials for something else. But many families in this country need this money even if they are medium income or under it. This will help, above all, those families. At the same time, this proposal will raise the level of competence, and this will address exclusion. The government parties have repeatedly highlighted how we invest in early childhood education and basic education: 120 million between 20 and 22 years in the quality and equality programme for basic education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u82	Madam President! ‘Soon glovesa, should there be an obligation to learn,asthereis no doubt about it. “ This was said by Olli Luukkainen, Chairman of the Teachers' Trade Union Organisation (OAJ) on 8 December in an interview with the Evening Sanomat. More than 10 per cent of those completing comprehensive school cannot write, read or count well enough to do well in vocational education. Olli Lukekainen, Chairman of the OAJ, said: “They need more support. “ And your solution is now compulsory for this school.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u83	Madam President! You will only read the first sentence, but you will forget to read the second, in which the Chairman of the OAJ states that the OAJ supports this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u86	I will give three more replies to this debate, followed by the Minister. — Representatives of Adlercreutz, Mäenpää and Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u87	Irade the Talman! It is said here that children are now being forced and that they should not be forced, should be supported, but just as Mr Arhinmäki said, we have had compulsory education for quite a long time. We think it is a good thing that Finnish children go to school, and sometimes it is worth even making a commitment to do a good thing. Well, this in itself is not the essential thing; it is the essential thing here that we know what we need. We know what children need, we know that if you complete a secondary level, the probability of employment is considerably better than if your education remains in primary school. It is not a natural limit to comprehensive school, as is not a natural limit to 12 or 17 years of age, but adulthood is a natural limit while we still know that we want every one of us to complete secondary school. It's in everyone's best interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u88	Mr President! Without taking that toll, it is a good thing that compulsory education should be extended to the end of secondary school before this parliamentary term, but this is the limit of your bill to 18 years. These same problems will continue, those fallers will come when they turn 18. This will not change — perhaps with a slight change of 1%, but this problem will continue and be repeated. The second stage has bigger problems that should be addressed. There's not enough teaching lessons there. There are even fewer classes than in secondary school. They're training a lazy society. In addition, teachers have been concerned about the fact that the second grade now includes illiteracy, a year of basic education students, and they are displaced from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u89	Mr President! We had a lot of discussions in committee about the problems young people are currently facing. One in eight students completes basic education without basic skills. That's Olli Lukeka referring to them. I'm not as pessimistic as Olli Luukas. As a member of the OAJ myself, I believe in these young people, if they are invested in them, only have to be invested at an earlier stage. There are a lot of mental health problems, drug abuse problems, neuropsychological problems — investing in them and helping them to cope. It is not like Olli Luukkainen, who immediately says that they will not be able to cope — of course they will be able to do well when they are simply invested in them, and that is why I would be putting all the drinks in there specifically to help at an earlier stage, in a tailor-made way, even in that early education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u90	Secretary Andersson, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u91	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the entire Committee on Education for the great work you have done on this legislative reform and the legislative project. It is also gratifying to be here now to listen to this debate in the Chamber. A few comments on the questions and comments that were specifically addressed to me: First of all, I would like to stress that extending compulsory education is by no means the same for everyone. This change in the age limit does not mean that young people should study in the same way or in the same way, but, on the contrary, when compared to our primary school, we have an exceptionally wide range of educational opportunities for young people at second level: there is upper secondary school education, there is vocational education which has also extended these different ways of completing education, we have preparatory education for a degree, and in addition, there are also adult education centres now included in this compulsory education. Then, with regard to targeting and the need for support for young people, I personally think that what this extension of compulsory education is all about is that society sets a minimum level of education and skills, which we believe all young people must acquire in order to be able to cope with today's society. We have today’s old compulsory education to serve this country and young people very well for about a hundred years, but when society changes, it is also quite logical that there should be new approaches to education policy. That means that all underage Finnish young people are covered by our publicly funded education system, and the change is targeted at those who, without this, would drop out of their studies as minors. These young people will be in the service of free education, free student guidance and free student and student care, and my question would then be what support would these young people receive if we allowed them to drop out of their studies and stay home alone at 16 or 17 years of age. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u92	And we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u93	Mr President! Compulsory education reform is the most important and far-reaching reform of education policy in Finland for decades. Its role in raising education and skills levels, increasing educational equality, improving employment rates and increasing the well-being of young people will be significant and historic. Since comprehensive school reform, the SDP has consistently promoted universal educational reforms for all. Compulsory education reform is the most important educational policy project in Finland for decades. I am really glad that our long-term goal is finally being fulfilled. As a result of the reform, more and more young people are completing secondary education, without which employment is now very difficult. As we know, due to changes in working life, only slightly over 40 per cent of the 15 per cent who depend on comprehensive school are employed, while over 70 per cent are employed with upper secondary education. The reform of compulsory education must be seen as a comprehensive solution to education policy, as a framework law and as a guide for the coming decades. The compulsory education law is, as it were, a framework within which many practical questions will still require separate solutions. That is why we drew attention in the report to the follow-up and evaluation of the reform in the coming years. That is why the committee also made a number of statements on matters which should be given particular attention in the implementation and follow-up of the reform. These include matters related to adequate support and guidance for pupils. I would like to mention a few of these: ensuring adequate resources for guidance, ensuring adequate support for students and students with learning difficulties, neuropsychological problems or mental health challenges, providing adequate and necessary support for the whole educational path; ensuring adequate provision of education; measures to ensure support for the provision of special education and special education for those who are required to receive vocational education and preparatory education and to establish quality criteria for upper secondary school education; and monitoring the impact of the reform on the network of educational institutions and on the availability of study places from the point of view of regional equality, both in large urban areas and in less populated areas. So this is the kind of statement we have proposed. Mr President! The reform of compulsory education alone will not solve the current problems. However, it has not been possible to demonstrate on the basis of the study evidence, which was widely highlighted in the consultations, what would be an alternative measure to achieve the objectives set out in the proposal better or more cost-effectively. We would like to stress – and we even made a statement about it – that, in addition to the compulsory education reform, we must continue to reform and strengthen the entire educational path, which has been taken during this term of government and which is taking place in a number of ways, because they also support and are a prerequisite for the success of the objectives and implementation of compulsory education reform. During the committee proceedings, experts paid particular attention to the fact that the reform is particularly targeted at pupils who are at risk of being excluded from secondary education. It is therefore essential that special attention be paid to adequate support and guidance for pupils in carrying out the reform. The draft law includes, among other things, joint-stage guidance, additional guidance for drop-out threats, special support for preparatory education, enhanced student guidance and post-graduate guidance, and so on. In the report and statements by the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy, we drew attention to the success of compulsory education reform, in particular with regard to adequate support for children and young people. A sufficient amount of individual and community education and youth work in educational institutions is important. Solutions to factors threatening the progress and well-being of students should be found as early as possible on the entire educational path from early childhood education to secondary education. These include early identification of mental health problems and neuropsychiatric problems and barriers to learning and their pedagogical support, care, rehabilitation and related competence and development throughout the educational path, student care and health care. Mr President! The opposition's opposition has called for measures, not compulsory reform, but, among other things, the learning month, to reform comprehensive school so that everyone reaches the necessary conditions for secondary education. The learning moon is a good idea, but it is not an alternative to compulsory education reform. It cannot be that you have to choose between basic education and secondary education. We really need to take care of both of them. The costs of compulsory education reform will be fully reimbursed to municipalities. The opposition's concern about the adequacy of funding is therefore unfounded. However, in the committee's statement, we expect, in the interests of certainty, that the adequacy of funding will be monitored in the future. Mr President! The Economic Policy Review Council estimates that the reform is a fiscally neutral measure. However, only the benefits derived from labour market effects, i.e. increased tax revenues and reduced current transfers, were taken into account. However, expert consultations showed that the fiscal benefits are likely to be even higher than expected, since compulsory education has a positive impact on public finances not only through improved employment but also through reduced social problems and well-being. Young people dependent on primary education are much more often excluded from education, convicted of a crime or suffering from mental health problems. In addition to employment, education has a positive impact on earned income and quality of life, reducing poverty, the use of social benefits and juvenile delinquency. Years of education correlate with employment, income, health and well-being, which in turn even improve social peace. I wonder quite a bit why, in the opposition, you do not want this good for all young people. As a result of the economic and employment challenges posed by the Corona virus epidemic, future efforts to extend compulsory education are now more important than ever. It should be borne in mind that it is estimated that the second level of compulsory education will increase the employment rate by 4 percentage points. As the employment rate rises, the reform will pay for itself. An increase of about EUR 700 million in the employment rate already represents an increase in public finances. In comparison, the annual cost of this reform of EUR 129 million is low. Finally, I would like to remind you that the late long-standing representative of the SDP, Matti Ahde, has told us that when he proudly pressed the ballot button at the time of the vote on the reform of primary school, tears came to his eyes. I think next week, when we vote on this in the Chamber,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u94	Mr President! The extension of compulsory education is part of the long history of Finnish education. Its ultimate purpose is to secure the basic knowledge and education needed for everyone in life and society from the early years to the full age. Its purpose is man’s long way in which every step of life has meaning and value. Its purpose is to support, support, guide and appreciate the youth. Its task is to require society to look at early childhood education, primary school and secondary school, so that in all situations a person who cares, who has time, walks against him. Without this package, individual speeches about specific strikes will not matter. The government’s proposal to extend compulsory education is therefore part of a nearly 100-year compulsory education chain. Its starting point is the future in which our objectives are similar to those of 100 years ago: to promote equal opportunities for self-development, to raise levels of education and skills, to reduce learning gaps, to increase educational equality and equality. So once again we should see far — not just until tomorrow, not the next year, not our time, much further away. President! Our society has long been plagued by a scourge that has not been resolved: 15% of the age group still lacks a secondary degree. At the same time, our dependency ratio is deteriorating, the number of older people is increasing in relation to those working and the skills requirements are increasing. We simply need better skills, a more educated population, where comprehensive school is no longer a minimum, but we need to move the border to a different level. Several projects have been carried out over the years to improve young people's access to education and employment, such as the social guarantee launched by the Katainen Government. However, these measures as such have not led to any significant improvement. This is why a structural reform such as compulsory education reform is needed to raise the level of education of young people. The benefits of extending the compulsory education age lie above all in increasing the participation of young people in education and training. Young people who are currently excluded from education are particularly affected. Free secondary education is, of course, an important hand-out for Finnish young people and their families. In addition, the limit for secondary school travel aid is reduced from 10 km to 7 km. President! The opposition is in favour of the government's objectives, but there is disagreement about the means. I very much appreciate the fact that much has been said about the importance of early childhood education and comprehensive school as the cornerstone of growth and learning. They are facts, and I fully agree with them. That is why each of us in this Chamber should consider that these vital years are not going to be lost, but that we will continue to do what the government is doing now. The Government will therefore allocate a significant amount of additional funding, EUR 180 million for basic education and EUR 155 million for early childhood education, to quality and equality programmes. At the same time, then, as it should be, the foundation is being pushed. On the side and side, both—and. Thus, different ages do not fight one another, but they are intertwined, the same civilized family, the same future. So the look must be on the whole, where every step of the child’s and the young’s life is vital. President! We do not have lost children or young people, but we have a moment to act here and now. I thank the government for doing so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u95	Mr President! The reform of compulsory education must be looked at from a generation perspective. The long-term impact of the reform will be reflected. Therefore, the main effects of this must also be expected, and it is precisely for this reason that compulsory education reform must be treated as the most important investment in education and training in recent history. It is very good that in this time, in the midst of a global crisis, we have the courage and open-mindedness to make important training solutions for equality. The reform of compulsory education will enable wider participation in working life as it becomes more specialised. Today's working life requires a broad educational base, and it is our duty to ensure that the level of education required by working life is possible for everyone. Improving equal opportunities in the context of the compulsory education reform, where studies show that the impact of the background has started to increase again, is of paramount importance. As a nation, we simply cannot afford to drop any young people from the sled, and we cannot afford to think that it would be too late for young people 16 to do everything possible for their well-being and education. Moreover, young people themselves are in favour of reform. According to the youth barometer, compulsory education reform receives the majority of respondents’ support despite the question of compulsory education. Also interesting was the fact that more than half of the young people who dropped out of secondary school expressed their support for the proposal. The extension of compulsory education is therefore also supported by young people who should be primarily affected by this change. Sometimes it seems that this young people's own message is not passed on to the opposition lines at all; it is spoken against compulsory education, past the young's own ideas. Mr President! The opposition has still not been able to demonstrate any single measure of a size comparable to the compulsory education reform that would promote equality on the same scale — none. Of course, everything has been tried in Finland so far, but it is now clear that we need a major system-level reform which also sends out a message that each young person is taking responsibility. There is no point in being intimidated by compulsory schooling, because, in practice, it is the organisers of education who are now being obliged to take responsibility for young people. Mr President! In Finland, if anywhere, there is the best opportunity to carry out compulsory education reform, as we have the world's most educated and best teachers. The challenge is to keep the education system equal in itself. In the future, the education system must not become unequal. That is why this reform will provide stronger support for children and young people who are at risk of falling. The opposition’s criticism is therefore not true when the opposition claims that the reform would bypass children and young people in need of support — not overruled. Indeed, compulsory education reform is one of the most extensive packages as part of the equality of education policy as a whole, which is of paramount importance to us on the left. We in the Left Alliance are very happy about this moment, because now our long-term education policy objective is on the way. In its 1999 education policy programme, the Left Alliance adopted the objective of extending compulsory education to the age of 18. We made it an initiative in Parliament in 2009 and a legislative initiative in 2014. This is a historic moment. Mr President! This reform has a positive impact on the well-being of children and young people. Prosperity will increase as employment and education levels increase. It is important to remember that education remains an important factor in improving well-being. Education policy is not a zero-sum game. The government is investing historically in every stage of the learning process, which is not an alternative to previous intervention, but everything is needed. Children’s lives and the need for support are individual, so support is also needed, including at the end of compulsory education, in addition to early support. As the expert hearings put it: ‘Operational reform investment in education and trainingiscomprehensive. It will also contribute to strengthening investment in the early learning path. Without compulsory education reform, the impact of early investment would also be wasted.” - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u96	Mr President! All of us share the objective of this government proposal, namely that each young person achieves at least a secondary degree. Research shows that education is still the best insurance against unemployment. However, the government's proposal has also been widely criticised, including the direction of educational scientists and teachers. Thousands of young people are now completing comprehensive school without the literacy or adequate mathematical skills required for secondary school. Today, Olli Lukekainen, President of the Teachers' Trade Union, also said that he felt that it was all the same whether compulsory education would be extended, because without sufficient knowledge and skills, young people in primary school would not be able to cope at second level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u99	Mr President! The good minister and colleagues and the rest of the plenary session will follow! I myself have been in favour of a second level free of charge. As a basic approach, I myself am thinking of the fact that any young person's secondary education must not be caught up in money and should have been looked for solutions, and in that sense I am in favour of a free second degree. However, this left-wing government solution is not in fact solving the basic problem, even though Minister Andersson and many other government parties have said that now every young person has a secondary degree. That is something that this reform will in no way ensure. On the 18th birthday, young people do not have a vocational school degree, on the other hand, they do not have a matriculation examination on their head, [ Hustles from the left] ‘Seonihansama,asso as not to become undisputed, will continue to be subject to The comment was addressing, waking and true. In particular, Luke raises the difficult situation of vocational education and training and the savings made there in about 10 years. In fact, despite what the current government has said, these cuts have not been reversed. The activities that have now been carried out in vocational schools have, to a large extent, been limited to a limited period of time, in practice linked to the current government's own term of office, in fact, in large measure only to help next year and the next year. In other words, teachers are only hired in vocational schools for a limited period — for their own term of government — and the problems return afterwards. In the case of Olli Waris, the teacher’s director highlights the most important issue in the case of vocational school: ‘The need for additional support’. In the Evening News,Lukkainen tells that problems are already at primary school level,continuing:‘More than10percent of primary schoolgoersare not wellwritten,readorcountedthattheywillpart in It is not this problem, ladies and gentlemen, that young people do not go to second grade; it is precisely the problem that young people do not stay there when they are unable to do so. And for all of this, now the left-wing government of Prime Minister Sanna Marin, with the support of the centre, is offering a compulsory education, in other words, an extension of compulsory education. Luke says what we have tried to say at the meeting during this preparation, but it has not been wanted to hear: ‘Soonhansama, whether the obligation to learn is maintained,because there is no doubt about it. “ Luke is critical of the scope and details of the reform in the news, and the main concern of the OAJ is that the additional funding for comprehensive school is not sufficiently included in the extension of compulsory education. That is what we are talking about here, ladies and gentlemen. Above all, we should now strengthen the learning path from the beginning. That would mean more investment in early childhood education, more resources from primary school to higher classes. I also think that this would mean significantly more resources for student care and personal support: more caring, that is what our children need. Early childhood education, comprehensive school, student care, special education, and I myself would take one step back from the old in special education, and that could mean some kind of right to a small education group. In other words, a young person, regardless of his or her place of residence, would be entitled to a small education group at the time he or she needed it. At the moment, not everyone gets the kind of help they need to learn so that they can do further studies in the future. I would therefore like to introduce this subjective right to small group education as a matter of urgency. When a child or young person needs a smaller group and stronger help and support, it should be guaranteed regardless of his or her place of residence or school. The OAJ, the Teachers' Trade Union, also doubts the promises made by Sanna Marin's Government under the leadership of Minister of Education Li Andersson regarding the 100 % cost of extending compulsory education. Lukeka says in the newspaper, Evening Sanomat: ‘I believe,andthe position of the OAJ is that the planned funding is not sufficient’. For example, according to Luke, the costs of comprehensive school were still in the mid-1990s, with the central government paying 58 per cent of the costs of primary schools. Now the central government pays municipalities less than a quarter of the costs of comprehensive schools. Luke says that the cost has thus been passed on to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u100	Mr President! First of all, we are dealing with this increase in compulsory education, which we negotiated during the negotiations on the government programme and with the composition of the government which is now the centre party, the RKP — the Swedish People's Party — the Greens, the Left Alliance and the Social Democrats. In this context, I would like to emphasise separately the importance which the centre party has in particular in this regard. I say this out loud because when I have had international guests in this house, many have asked and wondered: ‘How have you done this international education system in Finland? “ In this connection, I have remembered to say that throughout the years, through decades, the political left, the political centre — I also appreciate the very progressive work of the Swedish People's Party in developing Finnish education — has been the common force. I know that there are also people in the political right, individual parliamentarians, I am sure, now, who are quite close to this reform of compulsory education, its importance, its content, its effectiveness, but in a way, this political discipline is such this time that such warm words do not come. I understand and accept the criticism of this haste, the timetable, but otherwise we should see that we have now spent hundreds of millions of dollars on various specific measures in the last 10 to 20 years, and that amount, about 15% of the age group, the age cohort, remains the same all the time. We now need and need structural systemic change. The debate so far has not brought to light the fact that in many European countries compulsory education has been increased. We are, in fact, perhaps ten years too late to move forward on this issue, but perhaps time and political conditions have not been ripe. Mr President! “In the past, Finland hasreacted on the need for education with the Again, we are in a situation where primary education is not considered sufficient. In this case, the extension of compulsory education to secondary level is quite logical and natural. If compulsory education is continued, education and career planning will continue into a much more favourable phase in individual development and a much larger proportion of the age group.” This is what Patrik Schein, professor of educational science, said in his opinion to the committee. Not much remains to be done: ‘In the run-up to the challenges of the smaller agegroups and the future,the reform of the obligation to learnhas all been taken The compulsory and free nature of secondary education places young people on an unmistakably equal footing irrespective of the family's wealth or views on the need for secondary education." Professor Niina Junttila. ‘Expansion of the obligation to learnis an important signal for young people The Government’s proposal updates the compulsory education to meet the minimum needs of today’s working life better,” says Etla’s Research DirectorHanna Virtanen. I would like to say here that it sends a signal and a message: I myself think that in a few years' time, perhaps five years from now, this reform has hit itself as if culturally through our education, in the school's everyday life, when young people increasingly take it for granted that education will continue after primary school. And now, with these new, as it were, active activities, obligations on municipalities, education providers, we get thousands of young people to complete that vocational qualification, upper secondary school degree, preparatory education — whatever they want. Mr President! One more piece of delicacy to take: ‘The totality of the teaching obligation is consistent with the development of brain research from the perspective of Gnition Science on As a tool for the cultural responsibility of organised society, compulsory education is a logical system.” This is what Minna Huotlainen said in her opinion to the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u101	Mr President! Education is in life, and everyone, regardless of background and wealth, must have the opportunity to train in Finland as far as their own abilities and interest are sufficient. This must not depend on wealth in Finnish society; it is in the interests of a small nation. The aim must be that each young person achieves at least a secondary degree. Comprehensive school alone is not on the labour market. The problem is that every year as many as 6,000 young people complete comprehensive school without sufficient written and mathematical capacity. Thousands of young people are at risk of being excluded from society every year when basic skills are not sufficient for secondary education. The solution is to extend compulsory education to a secondary level. Raising the compulsory education age does not solve drop-outs in secondary education. Approximately 15 per cent of the age group does not have a secondary degree. Their problem is not a lack of compulsion, but the reasons for not performing the second degree are diverse. Solutions and ways of helping must also be diverse. The government's compulsory education model leaves young people who need help to their own devices. The model does not address the root causes of the problems. We need investments in early years and in comprehensive school in time. The basis for learning must be laid in order to be able to successfully build on it. The Coalition Party has presented its own comprehensive alternative to what needs to be done now in order to provide the basis for learning.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u110	Mr President! Parliament is on the verge of a historic reform when we decide to reform compulsory education to the 2020s. This is one of the most important educational policy reforms in Finland for decades. The number of comprehensive schools in modern society is no longer good, so it is high time that compulsory education was updated to meet the requirements of modern society. When we, as a society, see the need for every young person to complete a post-primary degree, it is only reasonable and reasonable to require it to be completed until the age of adulthood and to provide them with learning materials free of charge. In the past, efforts have been made to address the lack of secondary education through point-by-point measures and various support measures, but they have not been sufficient to solve the problem. Despite the efforts made, about 15 per cent of the age group still does not have a secondary degree. A large proportion of these young people are permanently excluded from the labour market. This is therefore a major problem for uneducated individuals, but it is also a major problem for the employment rate in Finland. There is no reason to underestimate the employment impact of the reform, as it is very difficult today to manage the labour market without a secondary degree. The employment rate for those who rely on comprehensive school alone is good 40 per cent, while for those who have completed secondary education it is higher than 70 per cent. The reform will therefore have a positive impact on employment, although it will take several years for the full impact to be fully reflected when the age group at a time becomes subject to compulsory education. The extension of compulsory education can also prevent exclusion and improve the employment rate, so in the long term it pays itself back many times more. Mr President! The extension of compulsory education does not, of course, solve all the problems; it also requires contributions to early childhood education and comprehensive school, so that young people are able to complete a second degree. The Government has made significant investments in early childhood education and has invested in basic education. EUR 350 million will be allocated to the development of quality and equality in early childhood education and basic education. Mr President! However, the extension of compulsory education and the contributions to earlier years are not a question of either—or rather, we need both. All stages of the educational path must be invested, for children’s lives do not go according to one pattern. One person’s problems can be detected already in early childhood education; the other person needs support later in his life. It is also worth investing in young people between the ages of 15 and 17. It is worth noting that compulsory education reform includes significant support for the joint phase of primary and secondary schools and clarifications of responsibilities. I am sad that so many people in this Chamber see that investing in young people is either pointless or too late and that situations should be dealt with earlier. However, young people have their whole lives ahead of them. We need investments both in the early stages and in young people between the ages of 15 and 17. Mr President! The reform will provide new ways of addressing the problem of early school leaving. New responsibilities for the supervision and supervision of those responsible for education and training, as well as for the household of those responsible for education and training, will be introduced. At no time would a young person with such a compulsory education fall outside the support network. Steering and control responsibilities are built on the exchange principle: the responsibilities of the various bodies are defined in legislation so that one party’s responsibilities for supervision and supervision always end when the other party’s responsibilities begin. Mr President! It is no surprise to anyone that the Coalition Party is opposed to a reform which increases this level of education and improves equality in education. The Coalition Party will remain on the wrong side of history, and it will be on the wrong side of history in its time of opposition to comprehensive school reform. The stubbornness of the Coalition Party is also amazing in the fact that the Teachers' Trade Union Organisation (OAJ) supports the reform of compulsory education. The reform is also supported by the International Economic Organisation (OECD) and the Economic Policy Assessment Council. The Finnish Institute for Economic Research also notes that the extension of compulsory education is likely to increase the educational attainment of young people and their subsequent success in the labour market. In addition, the Ombudsman for Children, for example, supports the reform, his arguments strongly rely on the rights of the child, as the reform promotes the right of the child to education. According to the Child Counsellor, research also shows that the current period of leaving compulsory education is too early for the child’s mental and social development, and that at the age of 18 the judgment is already better. It is also good to note that the majority of young people are in favour of reform. According to the youth barometer, 64 per cent of respondents were sympathetic to the compulsory secondary level. In particular, it is worth noting that the majority of young people who have also been excluded from studies are also in favour of reform. Mr President! A 15-year-old is too young to decide that he can survive a life without secondary education. Society must oblige and enable all young people to continue on the school path after comprehensive school. In most families, parents ensure that their offspring continue on the school path after comprehensive school. Unfortunately, there are also families where there is no knowledge, desire or ability to support the study of young people or for whom the cost of learning materials is too high. The impact of the children’s background on learning outcomes has begun to grow, and unfortunately we also inherit uneducated skills. According to studies, education is the most important tool for social upsurge and perhaps the most important single factor preventing exclusion and disadvantage. School dropout is most common in families that face a number of social risks and widespread ill-being in their lives. The corona crisis has also hit families hardest, where problems have accumulated even before the crisis. The interest-rate crisis is therefore no reason to postpone the extension of compulsory education — on the contrary, it is now more topical. Mr President! Improving the education system so that we can better address the overgeneration of disadvantaged people is essential for equality in society. It is the responsibility of society to ensure that young people from weaker socio-economic backgrounds also receive secondary education and thus the capacity for education, knowledge, well-being and employment. Mr President! I am very pleased to be here today to deal with this historic reform which the Left Alliance has been pursuing for a long time. I am pleased that we have a government with the capacity and will to undertake social reforms to update and strengthen the welfare state to the present day.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u111	Mr President! We have a great education system in Finland, the best teachers in the world and a strong common idea that every child and young person is valuable. Strengths are indisputable, but not self-evident. When the world changes around it and the skills requirements of society with it, it is only fair that the education system is also updated. That is why compulsory education reform is needed. This important reform brings two new tools to the toolbox for educational equality. In addition to extending compulsory education, we are finally making secondary education genuinely free of charge. Freeness of charge is important in the lives of families and young people. The second level has been the only level of education at which the student has had to pay for all his or her study materials. It is therefore high time that, while we extend compulsory education to secondary education, we also made it free of charge. However, even the freedom of education in the opposition is opposed. The question arises as to whether the opportunity for every young person to study without worrying about the financial situation of his or her family is worth nothing to you. For us Greens, education is a fundamental right for all, not a consumer product where we have to wonder if it is worth paying for. For the same reason, we are also in favour of free early childhood education. Mr President! The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs carried out an in-depth work on the finalisation of this important reform. Thank you for your cooperation with the committee and, of course, with the numerous experts who made their own invaluable contribution to shaping the Finnish education system. With regard to such an important whole, it is honest to say that the world will by no means be completed by this clapping of the President. No reform is a panacea, and compulsory education alone does not solve employment, school drop-out or the nausea of children and young people. It needs investments in the whole educational path and in the well-being of children and young people. Securing local education in vocational education and establishing quality criteria for upper secondary school education are examples of the work that needs to be continued in order to strengthen the educational path. Mr President! It has been important for the Greens to stress that every student and student can easily and timely support their needs, whether they are challenges in learning, mental health or friendship. We want to ensure that adults have time to meet and listen to young people in the everyday lives of educational institutions. That is why the reform of compulsory education for the Greens has gone hand in hand with the binding staffing dimensions of education and the corona period has further underlined the importance of this issue. In the wider field of education, binding dimensions would ensure that the needs of young people are met and that adults are able to cope with the school’s everyday life. The aim of the Greens is that, at the end of this decade, there should also be a dimensioning of the tutors and teachers per pupil. Mr President! I will go over some of the arguments raised in the debate against this reform. You say, the coalition, that free of charge of the study materials is not necessary and that it will flow into the pockets of the well-earned. Well, I would remind you that that money will not be left in anyone's pocket any more than the tax cuts for the well-earned, which you are in favour of. These investments in compulsory education reform focus on strengthening educational equality for children and young people in this society. You say, the Coalition Party and the Basic Finns, that the study material supplement would be a better way to deal with the matter, and I remind you of the everyday reality of life, where the material acquisition is usually made at the beginning of the academic year at once, and this monthly support for the deprived cannot be answered. Free education is also not an aid to the poor; it is the right of every child and young person. You say, Mr opposition, that we should invest in something else, do something specific, and I would like to remind you that we are also doing those investments, indeed. Unfortunately, during the reigns of the Coalition Party, these billion cuts in education were carried out, which are still felt in the daily lives of schools. Fortunately, this government has gone to close that gap. As part of this reform and also alongside it, we invest in education, learning support, study care, guidance and the well-being of children and young people on the whole educational path. These efforts are, of course, essential if the objectives of this reform are to be achieved as well, and the Greens believe that this should not be the case either. Mr President! This reform is a major effort in the field of education. I know it also shares opinions. It is very important that the concerns of experts, education professionals and young people themselves are taken into account in the implementation of the reform, as we have done our best to address them in this legislative work. However, if there were easy solutions to drop out of education, to the nausea of young people and to the poverty of families with children, those easy solutions would certainly already have been made. Sometimes it takes a little bigger changes to solve major problems, but these reforms are not made for the joy of reform, but because it is necessary, it is responsible and it is impressive. Personally, I hope that this reform, in addition to everything else, will send out a strong social message. It is a message to municipalities and schools that every young person must be held on, and it is a message to young people today and tomorrow that everyone deserves the opportunity to realise their dreams, to find the joy of learning and the path that suits them, to receive support and guidance according to their needs, and above all: it is never too late. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u112	Mr President! This is a historic day. The Finnish Parliament makes a significant history for the future of our nation when it comes to extending the free compulsory education to secondary students. In 1921, the law on compulsory education and the free provision of primary school came into force. This meant completing at least six years of primary school. In 1970, a comprehensive school reform was carried out, which extended compulsory education to cover the current comprehensive school. Today, we are once again debating an important reform of education and training policy in order to strengthen the future of our country: the extension of the free compulsory education to the second stage. This is a continuum on the basis of the knowledge and equal free education on which the well-being of Finland and Finns has been based for a century. In order to succeed in the reform of secondary education, the government is investing in the whole learning path. The Government focuses on support and services from early childhood education to basic education and the completion of secondary education. As we know, the government was almost the first to restore the subjective right of each child to early education. In addition, groups of early childhood education have been reduced, customer fees have been reduced, two-year preschool trials have been continued and the quality of basic education has been strengthened through the Oikeus-opetus programme. In addition, student and student care will be strengthened at all levels of education and funding will also be directed towards education and student guidance. The reason for all this is that we recognise the service needs of children and young people in terms of both well-being and learning. Mr President! The aim of the extension of compulsory education is to increase the level of education and skills and to ensure that every young person has access to a secondary degree. Compulsory education reform is essential, as primary school alone is no longer sufficient for employment. We're training for work. The needs for knowledge in working life have changed and developed, and this will continue to happen in the future. Over the past 30 years, we have lost some 600,000 jobs, for which comprehensive school skills were sufficient. Now these jobs are no longer there, but the requirements for the level of competence are constantly increasing. Working life requires continuous updating of skills. The second-degree degree also offers better opportunities to complete further studies and degrees and to update competence in the field. Education and knowledge are an important part of the basic security of a person in which he can build his life. A secondary degree provides the basis from which a person can either direct his or her studies to work or continue his or her career. Mr President! In its report, the committee also made a strong point to people with disabilities and children and young people in need of special support, as well as their equal rights to education and to strengthen their skills. The starting point is the UN agreement on equal access to education for people with disabilities in the general education system. In its report, the committee requires that disabled pupils also have the right to adequate and individual support for their studies. For example, in securing the training of disabled and sick young people and those in need of special support, it should be noted that they receive the necessary services to support learning: health services, services under the Social Welfare Act, services under the Disability Services Act, as well as Kela's services — from Kela such as personal assistance tools, rehabilitation, interpretation services and transport services. These services must be tailored individually for each student. The problem has become that they are applied for in different places, which is why good and planned cooperation and coordination with the organiser of education, the municipality, the hospital district and Kela are needed. I am very pleased that the report has raised the specific issues of people with disabilities and young people who need special support strongly, also in the form of statements. This will allow Parliament to follow up and, if necessary, demand corrections to the shortcomings that have arisen. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Culture and Education for their good work and commitment to the fact that this historic legislative reform has been brought into Parliament on a tight schedule. Despite the fact that our views on reform are different, we all share this objective of compulsory education. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u113	Irade the Talman! We know a few things. We know that the employment conditions are considerably higher for young people who have also completed secondary education. We know that we do not want anyone to fall solely into primary school. And since we know this, it is only natural for compulsory education to be extended to all persons of adulthood. This is pure logic. Nothing says that the current limit is optimal. It's artificial, just like a lot of other boundaries. There is no better limit than 12, 10 or 7 to 18 years. It is the limit of adulthood, it is the limit that enables the minimum requirement to be met, what we want from our young people. The logical thing is, of course, that this reform is being opposed by the opposition, just as primary school was once opposed. The Coalition Party states that it should be supported, not forced — just to ask for school, not obliged. This is a special idea in a country where compulsory education has been in use for quite a long time. We also have to insist, we also have to make an obligation. It is also true that central government finances at a certain level are zero-sum games. A stake in one place is off somewhere else. Therefore, the concern that this reform will lead to cuts in other schools is justified. It is good to ensure that there is sufficient funding. The problems elsewhere are not simply overcome by the provision of compulsory education. We still have a shortage of school psychologists, we still have a shortage of student counselors. And while moving the school horizon beyond the end of the ninth class, 18 years old, will in itself bring about a positive change, it is clear that this reform does not mean that other problems will be eliminated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u114	Mr President! An important part of the historic reform of compulsory education is the freeness of secondary education. This will guarantee that no more young people will be caught for their second - grade work. This is an essential contribution to the future of young people, so that more and more young people can get a job through education and not be sidelined in our society. The Government is committed to fully compensate for the extension of compulsory education and free secondary expenses. It has also been suggested in this Chamber today that basic education should be invested first. We disagree on this. The need for training is not either—or, the need is both—and. After the last government cuts in education, we need strong investments in education at all levels, and that is what we are doing. In addition to the compulsory education reform, subjective early childhood education rights have been restored and group sizes have been reduced. Funding for early childhood education has also been allocated to the model of learning support and the reduction of early childhood education fees. Basic education receives permanent additional funding for both student guidance and student and student care. In total, the resources for comprehensive school and secondary student and student care will be increased by EUR 29 million. The basic funding for upper secondary schools has already been permanently increased by EUR 18 million. Significant additional efforts are also made in vocational education and training, the most important of which is the programme for the development of the quality and equality of vocational education and training, to which a total of approximately EUR 270 million will be allocated. In addition, a quality programme will be launched to improve the quality of upper secondary school education, to which a total of EUR 15 million will be allocated in 2021 and 2022. In addition to these, there will be a large, more than EUR 300 million set of lessons in early childhood education and basic education, through which funding will be channelled to promote equality and support for learning. Mr President! The State Economic Research Centre (VATT) issued an opinion on compulsory education reform to the Education and Science Section of the Parliamentary Committee on Finance. In its opinion, VATT supports the reform of compulsory education and expresses its economic impact as follows: ‘It is important to note that the extension of the obligation to teach and the non-payment of the second level of education do notrequire much more social net costs,as at present the expenditure on learning materials and travel is borne by households. In terms of costs, the main effects of non-payment are therefore distributional effects. The impact on cost levels is likely to be significantly lower and could even be negative if municipalities manage to use their own market power effectively in procurement. Furthermore, the analysis of the impact of the extension of compulsory education is in favour of the transfer of costs to the public sector. Extension of compulsory education has positive externalities, according to the results of the study, which young people do not take into account in their educational choices. However, since these choices have a wider impact on well-being in society, it is justified that taxpayers should contribute to the financing of the costs of the choices.’ This is what the State Economic Research Centre VATT said. Mr President! We need bold structural reforms to ensure that all young people are better equipped. The aim of the reform is to guarantee basic knowledge and education for all in life and society. The right to learning belongs to everyone. Free second level promotes the right of young people to education and improves the equality of the Finnish education system. In the past, Finland has been able to overcome difficult times by investing in knowledge. This is an historic reform to update compulsory education into the 2020s.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u115	Mr President! Extending compulsory education at the same time is a future act, an act of equality and an act of employment. The evidence suggests that society and working life need a higher-skilled population. As the age groups decline, the need for a well-trained population will increase further. We also know from the studies that the employment rate of those without a secondary qualification is clearly lower than that of others, that their employment history is more severe and that their earnings levels are lower than others. In a more complex and changing world, it is increasingly difficult to anticipate skills needs. In the event of change, the importance of sustainable basic skills and professional and general education will be emphasised. As compulsory education continues, education continues to be a more favourable stage in the development of young people. So the goal is to help everyone on their own learning and learning path and thus make sure that everyone is able to complete the secondary level. Training will extend careers and facilitate access to employment and the exchange of jobs, as well as the learning and retraining of new ones in changing working life. The most important thing is that each person should find a suitable path for goal-oriented learning towards further studies and working life. The aim is therefore to keep young people longer and to ensure that no young person is left to primary school alone. Similarly, the economic situation of families must not put obstacles in the way of training for a young person. The opposition has suggested that more support be given to those who need it. Although these support measures have already been tested and tried, they have not reduced the number of young people who are left empty after comprehensive school. Even at the moment, 15 per cent of the age group does not have a degree. Of course, we still need support measures, and we also need to invest more in them. Young people must therefore be prevented from being left behind on many fronts. In the longer term, the reform will pay for itself as employment gets stronger, not to mention other positive multiplier effects, as the educational level of young people increases and marginalisation decreases. More than 60,000 young people are currently isolated in Finland, and we pay more than EUR 1 billion per year for this development of exclusion. President! The extension of compulsory education is also one of the most important measures to reduce inequalities in education. In Finland, the inheritance of education is still strong, and in recent years the inheritance of education has even strengthened, which is reflected especially in the impact of parental education on the completion of upper secondary school. Keeping young people in compulsory education will also help them to make more family-independent choices about their educational path. Experts have widely pointed out that not all young people between the ages of 15 and 16 are mentally mature to make future decisions. At the end of primary school, some young people are still in the turmoil of puberty, which is why adequate guidance and measures such as compulsory education are needed to continue the educational path. In addition, the transparency of training pathways needs to be further improved and higher education places increased. The education system must also be open to the adult population. It should also be borne in mind that the education system cannot be reformed in isolation from other policy areas. Reducing educational inequalities also requires a comprehensive approach to education provision and funding, the social security system and labour market training. Finally, I would like to emphasise in particular that the extension of compulsory education to secondary education also strengthens the equal status of people with disabilities in the education system. The steering and control responsibilities of the proposed law will enable people with disabilities to plan their active training and study paths and access to the labour market. Too often, for example, young people with mental disabilities currently have the only option available for retirement. The proposal has well assessed the actual implementation of equality for people with disabilities, for example, and has taken into account the UN CRPD provisions on accessibility and access to education. The Agreement obliges States Parties to ensure equal access to education and training for persons with disabilities in the general education system. A disabled student is also entitled to adequate and individual support for his or her studies. As stated in the proposal, the CRPD imposes specific requirements due to the special status of students with disabilities. The Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Cultural Rights of Persons with Disabilities may also impose specific requirements which are not readable in the Constitutional Statutes. In addition to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, it is therefore necessary to take into account Article 9 on equality of the Constitution in the extension of compulsory education and in the implementation of the law. As well as the provisions of the Equality Among other things, the Non-Discrimination Act provides for reasonable adjustments that are currently not sufficiently implemented. Mr President! In securing education for disabled, sick and young people in need of special support, it should be noted that they may need health services, services under the Social Welfare and Disability Services Act to support learning, as well as Kela services, such as personal assistance tools, rehabilitation, interpretation services and transport services. These services are tailored individually to the student. The problem is that they are applied for in different places, which is why good cooperation is needed with the education provider, the municipality, the hospital district and Kela. This requires structured cooperation and coordination between the training provider and other organisations. In its report, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs rightly stresses the importance of providing adequate guidance to pupils and their guardians in the procedures for applying for benefits and services, and that the application and other processes are as smooth and timely as possible. Every level of education must ensure that disabled young people and their guardians receive adequate and timely information and, where necessary, support for studying and more generally rights related to the studies of disabled students. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u116	Mr President! Askola, Sievi, Hankasalmi, Ilomantsi, Joroinen, Nousiainen, Parikkala, Taipalsaari, Urjala, Juuka, Luumäki, Isokyrö, Pielavesi, Vesilahti, Kärkölä, Tohmajärvi, Jootsa, Ruovesi and so on — here are the municipalities that Olli Luukainen, Chairman of the OAJ, today slaughtered in the Ilta-Sanom, saying that the population base of at least 5,000 people is needed to run the school. I believe that this was the biggest piece of news when much has been said today about what OAJ and Olli Lukeka have said about extending compulsory education. The assembly read only part of Luke’s words by saying that it will not help if there are not enough skills before the second degree — that is certainly the case, but he also supported extending compulsory education and probably forgot that the government has invested and will invest very extensively in early childhood education and basic education this season. One of the most important contributions to basic education during this term of government is, for example, the Quality and Equality Programme, which has been allocated 120 million for the years 2020 to 2022. A responsible government cannot look at just one level of education at a time. That is why we must evaluate the quality and development of early childhood education, basic education, secondary and higher education in Finland. The aim of this proposal is, above all, to address the fact that no young person falls off the sled, tackles exclusion, seeks to raise skills and supports families. Supporting families and helping to acquire learning material is an essential and important part of this government proposal. I must say that, of course, it would have been great for me in the past if the government had guaranteed the study materials. Perhaps the money accumulated during the summer could have been spent on something more pleasant and perhaps more entertaining, but this is what is going on, and perhaps future generations will then spend their money more rationally and see what they do with it. I can see that that support for families is not going to help. It is not just about the poor, it is about the middle-income people, and there are quite a lot of money under it, and after all the payments and taxes, we have to think about what the money is enough for, and now the fact that there is a great deal to be said against providing learning material is a very important reform. I cannot understand the philosophy of the coalition — perhaps it is ideology, perhaps it is something else — that we should go against such an important act of equality. All in all, Mr President, I would like to say that this is an historic moment, as many Members have said in this Chamber. As far as compulsory and comprehensive school reforms are concerned, there has been no such significant reform between now and then, and I believe that the results of what is being achieved will not be seen until years have passed. But the expert consultations and statements that have been received also show and show that, above all, the level of skills will increase and the employment rate will continue to increase. In other words, this will have far-reaching implications and will be significant for the whole of this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u117	Mr President! I am pleased to be involved in this great reform of education policy, which is the extension of compulsory education. This is the biggest reform of education for decades. We have experience of comprehensive school reform, how it was suspected in the past, but whose excellence is widely recognised here in Finland today and of which Finland is specifically known abroad. The extension of compulsory education, as was the case in the past with the reform of primary education, will be driven by the need to reform the school path for children and young people in a socially and economically fairer way. Primary compulsory education means free of charge, so it is a significant hand-out for Finnish young people and their families. Even thousands of euro-paying secondary education materials will be free of charge in the future. In addition, the limit for secondary school travel aid is reduced from 10 km to 7 km. It is also important for us in the centre that compulsory education reform is carried out in a flexible way. Each young person is tailored to his/her own personal training path. In addition to upper secondary school and vocational education, compulsory education can also be carried out in, for example, preparatory education, folk high schools or at the workplace. While self-education and development is always a value in itself, we believe that the extension of compulsory education in the centre is a structural reform that strengthens the economy. The compulsory education reform will strengthen employment and pay itself back to the public sector. For example, the task force for economic reconstruction led by Vesa Vipriälä and the Institute for Industrial Research have provided strong support for the reform. Mr President! The world has changed a lot in the last 30 years. In my youth, a basic school certificate was still available for work, but in recent decades it is these low-skilled peers who have mostly lost their jobs and have not been employed without further training. I have seen the road to exclusion that often correlates with low levels of education, low levels of employment and substance abuse problems. In order to succeed in today's work and to become more and more employable, we need to meet the growing demands for education and skills levels. Several projects have been carried out over the years to improve the educational and employment opportunities of young people. However, these necessary measures have not led to any significant improvement. Extending compulsory education certainly does not solve all the challenges facing young people, employment or educational attainment, but it is good enough to be able to stand firm behind it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u118	Mr President! As a parent of such a special child, it seems rather strange and sometimes even offensive to listen here to the speeches of the assembly about how you feel children and young people should be supported at an early stage, when it is precisely through cuts in education that they have had the greatest chance of getting the support they need, but it is wonderful that the mind has changed. We now have the biggest educational reform in Finland’s history since the construction of the comprehensive school. It will allow us to build a more equal future and Finland for every child and young person in a completely new way. While secondary education becomes an obligation for young people, it also becomes a right. It is a right to build a suitable and individual study path for yourself. Free-of-charge and new joint-stage investments are now providing better opportunities for this. Enlargement of compulsory education will enable us to build a more equal future for every young person in this country. The reform of compulsory education is a demanding task that will require strong support from the state, municipalities and education providers. New structural reforms always require will and collective effort, and nothing new comes easily. That is why it is now important to gather the expert information obtained on the way and to consult children and young people themselves in particular. In order for information to continue to grow, we in the Committee on Education and Rural Development have paid particular attention to monitoring and evaluating the reform. Mr President! Nearly a third of high school students say that the cost of studies is a source of concern for their families, and that is far too much. Concern about the family’s livelihood because of their own education does not reduce the already high pressure of high school students, on the contrary. Too often costs become an obstacle to the wishes or dreams of a young person, and with this compulsory education reform this will no longer be the case in the future, fortunately. Education is not only an opportunity to become more involved in working life, but also an opportunity to create security for young people and to strengthen their well-being. In the extension of compulsory education, special attention has been paid to this, for example, through investments in student guidance and student care. The starting point is that even one young person who is excluded is too much and not one young person should be allowed to disappear invisible. That is why, in the expansion of compulsory education, a proactive focus has finally been placed on the student’s support. Specific measures for guidance and student care have been needed for a long time, and they were now available as part of the compulsory education reform. With this we make sure that every young person can actually find his or her own strengths, study meaningfully and get a chance to succeed. By binding personnel measurements in student care, we ensure that the support and assistance of a school student is exactly where the young person himself is. Particular support for the status of pupils has also been given to the student himself, the teaching staff and the school system. The aim is to ensure adequate support for all young people who need it. In addition, the new preparatory education for qualifications, or TUVA, has been built to facilitate, among other things, the linking of studies to secondary education. In its report, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media notes that support services for young people with disabilities must continue seamlessly throughout the study path, even in the second stage. Cooperation between organisations will support this success. The educational institutions must also provide adequate guidance and advice to enable them to effectively access the adjustments, support measures and tools needed by young people with disabilities. It is important to follow up on the above-mentioned developments in the future. The flexibility of the joints narrows the thresholds for learning, and it is in the interests of every young person that the school path is as easy as possible. We have made a choice of values in investing in the school path of a child and a young person since the early years, so that every young person has the ability to complete secondary education. Youth is challenging and sometimes difficult in many ways. However, with this reform, we can give young people certainty that they will grow and learn and that we, as a society, will support them in this. Major changes do not arise without challenge, but that does not mean that they should not be made. That is why today we are building a future in which children and young people and their equality are placed at the centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u119	Mr President! Thank you to the committee for your thorough work and for the clear report on this important and historic change. I'd like to believe there's a gym full of training defenders. The most important question for all of us is: how do we best strengthen the skills and training of everyone living in Finland at the moment? The reform of comprehensive school was such a reform at the time. One of the most important answers to this question by this government is the extension of compulsory education to secondary levels. According to studies, the completion of the basic education syllabus, i.e. the current compulsory education, does not provide sufficient skills to succeed in working life. There is also a significant risk of exclusion from society in general for those who do not have education after comprehensive school. Exclusion from education and working life is an economic challenge for society, but it is particularly harmful and harmful from a human perspective. Therefore, in today's Finland, the capacity offered by secondary education would appear to be the minimum requirement for social integration to be able to survive without the continued support of society. In this respect, studies up to the age of 18 should be considered equally necessary in the future. Continuous learning and the skills and opportunities needed to participate in it are also important, and these conditions are also being reformed by the government through parliamentary work. This proposal implements the objectives of the Government Programme from raising compulsory education to 18 years of age, strengthening guidance, free secondary education, and developing secondary education and joint guidance. After basic education, compulsory education would be carried out in upper secondary school education, vocational education or after basic education in various joint stages of education, in TUVA education or in education aimed at the compulsory education of the adult education centre. When supplementary education in basic education, preparatory education for upper secondary school education and preparatory education for vocational education and training are combined to prepare for a qualification, it is really important to ensure that growth municipalities in particular do not continue to increase the average level of admission to upper secondary school further. In Espoo, for example, despite the addition of seats, the upper secondary school entrance limit has increased in several years to close to the 8 average. It is important to ensure that the municipality’s resources are sufficient to cover both the years of the earlier school path and the years of high-quality extended compulsory education, and that, in addition to the strengthened guidance and reform, the permanent dimensioning of the reform is provided with adequate services to support the well-being of students such as curators and psychologists. The government is committed to all of these. Early intervention in the burdening factors of childhood prevents children’s mental health problems and learning difficulties. Support for children and young people in need of support must be ensured from early childhood education onwards. This is also what the government is taking forward. Investment in the well-being of the entire school community and in the fight against, for example, bullying and discrimination will also help to reduce the drop-out of education and, above all, increase the well-being of children and young people. The opposition and the OAJ, as has been mentioned in the debate and in the wider debate, are quite right that the earlier stages of the school path, both early childhood education and basic education, require additional efforts, and the government is fortunately doing so. The Committee therefore stresses the importance of the ongoing large-scale education and training development projects such as the Right to Know and Learn as part of the overall implementation of the compulsory education reform and its effectiveness. These early measures will therefore also prevent secondary school drop-out. By extending compulsory education, we will then ensure that no one falls and that the school path continues at least until the young person is an adult. The Government aims to raise the level of education and competence in Finland. The completion of a secondary degree promotes the employment and participation of a person in society. The aim of the proposal is to help increase the employment rate. Free training is not an unnecessary investment. It facilitates the position of families with children, promotes equality and strengthens the position of education as a fundamental right. The committee notes that compulsory education law forms a framework within which many practical questions will still require separate solutions. The committee therefore draws particular attention to the follow-up and evaluation of the reform in its report. It is absolutely essential that, with the ageing of the population and the renewal of the social system, we ensure that the resources for education and training are binding. For example, the Greens believe that the commitment to human resources should be made. Through this we can ensure that the share of education input in society does not fall. Raising our country's competence level is a prerequisite for our survival in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u120	Mr President! Today, too, there has been a lot of discussion about raising compulsory school age and the lains have been beating for and against. There is an alternative to raising compulsory education age, and that is not coercion. Personally, I don't understand why a young person has to be forced into second grade if there's no motivation. I see that the lack of motivation should be addressed at an early stage and, if necessary, given additional support. Fortunately, Marin’s green left government, with the support of the city centre, will put this issue in order, too, because they have money for everything possible and impossible. Well, the income side's a whole different story, actually. It's kind of non-existent. There's no income yet, but there's a lot of fun going on for everyone. Back to young people whose comprehensive school has ended: The current situation is that we have one in eight pupils who complete basic education without basic skills and 20 per cent have mental health problems. The vast majority of the money earmarked for the reform goes to study materials and travel costs, not to strengthen the quality of education and training. If we neglect, unfortunately, as we have already done, the basics of schooling, we drop off and there are no escapes. The best thing would be to spend the money put forward on basics, such as making group sizes smaller and ensuring adequate hours at a professional secondary level. Hundreds of teachers, curators and psychologists would have been hired with the same money, among other things, where the main problems start, i.e. basic education. It has to be mentioned that in the excellent alternative budget of the Finns-based, 22 million saved on extending compulsory education would be made available to support primary education to increase special teachers and small groups. Mr President! Some appeal to economists, and I understand they are in favour of this. It is also worth listening to, or even reading, what the majority of educational scientists and principals feel about this imperative. Surely the will we all have is that no young person will be sidelined, but the means are different. There's no solution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u121	Mr President! Thank you very much for your constructive cooperation in the Committee on Education and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the work of this law. It has been a pleasure to work when you think that you want to keep everything involved. Compulsory education has been one of the most important success factors in the history of 103 years of Finland. Compulsory education will be 100 years of age next year. It is a glorious history of Finnish civilization. Everyone, regardless of their background, has had the right to learn and develop themselves into an active and responsible citizen of society and to find their place in this society. The training's good. Everyone may have gone as far as strength and motivation are sufficient. There is still a need for the capacity for lifelong, continuous learning. Poor Finland has become one of the most successful and happy countries in the world. Education will ensure Finland’s success in the future. Education is still the best insurance against unemployment. It is the advantage of a small nation in a global world. This gallant compulsory education has long roots: in the 17th century, teaching literacy was the job of the church, in the 17th century, the obligation to teach — just as a schoolless compulsory education — was imposed on the homes — and in 1921, soon 100 years ago, the law on compulsory education was passed, albeit rather late in Europe. There was opposition to change. It was feared that the parenting role would be weakened. Education was not wanted to be a task for society. It was difficult to oblige a child to go to school. Change was also considered costly. As a result of the costs, implementation was delayed so that the last remote villages in Tunturi-Lap became part of the school network only in the 1950s. An important milestone was the reform of comprehensive school, which was also resisted at the time. I was allowed to start my own school trail in a fresh elementary school. In 1997, people with disabilities were also the most difficult to access to compulsory education. In my earlier work, I have seen the fine consequences of this valuable decision. Now that we are raising and extending compulsory education to the full age, we can say that this change is as significant as the reform of primary school. We have been, I am glad to say, on the same lines throughout the whole Parliament, even though we are partly divided on the means. I agree with the opposition that learning basic skills should be taken care of throughout the school path. Fortunately, a number of projects are starting to go into this. Since the number of young people excluded has remained stable despite a number of specific measures, it is good to make this change. Society supports young people in situations where not all of them yet understand their own interests. According to economists, the reform will pay for itself in a long run. It is good that this reform is being implemented in a flexible way. Different own paths are tailored to each one’s strengths. When we discussed this extension of compulsory education in the Constitutional Committee, the conclusion was that this extension of compulsory education is basic education, which must be free of charge. There has also been a broad consensus on this free-of-charge, and I think it is very good. I also welcome the fact that, after comprehensive school, young people can continue to vocational school and upper secondary school, as most young people are slow to move, but they also have this preparatory education, an apprenticeship and the long lines of adult education in which they receive vocational guidance are supported in the difficulties of learning — just as they correct the basic shortcomings — they can look for their own strengths and, in particular, strengthen life management, that they are ready to continue their studies. Mr President! The committee stressed that the consequences of such a major and extensive reform should be examined and the impact monitored. In its report, the committee considered it absolutely essential that the number of places of study and the adequacy of compulsory education in adult education centres be closely monitored. In this respect, a statement was made stating that ‘the Member State requires that the number of places of study covered by the long-term education obligation of national The entry also came from ensuring that long-line learning materials are free of charge. This is, in fact, clear on the basis that extended compulsory education is a fundamental right, it is basic education. Raising the age limit will not replace and solve everything,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u122	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a matter of opinion that every young person needs a secondary degree in today's work. Just elementary school doesn't carry it anymore. I am delighted that in our opinion the Committee on Education and Rural Development sees measures to extend the compulsory age as acceptable and justified in terms of strengthening the employment of young people. It has been a pleasure to work on this whole area of compulsory education, both in the Committee on Education and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Thank you, colleagues, for allowing me to be involved in this work. I stopped when I got to know the numbers. For example, the employment rate of women dependent on primary education does not exceed 60% in any age group. Simply: primary school alone is no longer in employment. It is not a matter of opinion that early support is the most effective place to intervene in young people's lives and in the development of inequality. That is also what has been said in this Chamber today. We are currently aligning our early support with an unblemished system, together with the opposition and the government, and also with the public's confidence: we are carrying out a programme of changes in child and family services, the support of the early childhood education system is being developed, the challenges of equality are being addressed. I think there was 300 million euros in equality money for early childhood education and basic education. The price tag for this compulsory education reform is 129 million. I have noticed that, in this debate on education, the scale often jumps. We are talking about a total of EUR 16 billion, and now we are talking about compulsory education reform. Compulsory education came into force a hundred years ago, which is of course historic — I think it will be 100 years old at the beginning of next year. It is historic, and it is true that extending compulsory schooling is also a historic reform, but in this order of the euro it is only part of the whole. However, it is equally unquestionable research that even if early support is complete, support is needed later in life, for life can surprise you, and motivation needs to be found throughout life. I have always tried to solve three very tricky phenomena in my career, and I feel that these problems remain partly unresolved: the problem of exclusion of young people, the challenge of a skilled workforce — the discovery of skills and motivation — and the drop-out of school, i.e. those young people who are left behind in primary school. I am in favour of a free second degree and an increase in Finnish competence. I am in favour of raising the compulsory education age. All the phenomena I have mentioned above always reflect the same challenges that arise after the working group. I think the last major task force was a youth guarantee management team that allowed me to be a member of it for four years. Firstly, there is the need for those who bear responsibility, secondly, for more support and guidance, and thirdly, for close studies to be completed. Yes, it is that we have to pack enough food in the backpack of life so that people and Finland can survive. You have to get to school, and you have to get your skills and your enthusiasm. We need more control. First of all, with regard to these responsible parties: I am extremely pleased that we finally have a government proposal that defines the responsibility of a young person. Secondly, on support and guidance: This proposal strengthens the guidance of young people and sees that compulsory education should include this specific joint-stage guidance — additional guidance for drop-out threats, special support for preparatory education, enhanced student guidance and post-graduate guidance. It is important to ensure the adequacy of these resources as well as of the training levels of student counsellors. This proposal takes account of the fact that these issues also require costs, and these costs are included in this compulsory education reform. Solutions should be found as early as possible on the whole educational path to the factors threatening the progress of the student's studies. These include early identification of mental health problems and neuropsychiatric problems as well as learning difficulties and barriers to learning, pedagogical support, care, rehabilitation and related competence and development. As far as I can see, this proposal contains the things I have mentioned above. The expert consultation highlighted the need to amend and harmonise the provisions and practices of support education, special education and special support. Currently, the concepts of the support and the student's right to support differ depending on where you study in Finland. The forms of support for new preparatory education have been harmonised through compulsory education, so that special support is also introduced in the preparatory education carried out by the upper secondary school organiser. That's a very good thing. And then on this accessibility: For those of you who are particularly concerned about the accessibility of education, I can assure you that this reform will also bring positive developments. Today I drew attention to the news from the Helsingin Sanomat, where it was predicted that up to half of the upper secondary schools would fall. I personally do not believe in it or its reasoning. In fact, I have not dealt with any other government proposal so important that education is more accessible than in the context of this reform — by extending the student's freedom of choice, the possibility of choice at second stage, by bringing freedom of education and learning into working life closer to the student's everyday life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u123	Mr President, ärade talman! År 1921 var ett viktigt år för vårt land, för vår Jämställdhet och hurudant samhälle vi har i dag — världens lyckligaste land enligt många parametrar. Nästa år firar vi den förlängda läropliktens Hundraårsjubileum. Den 1 augusti 2021 träder den utvidgade läroplikten till då den höjs från 16 till 18år. Det är en mycket stor förändring i vårt utbildningssystem, en historisk förändring. Samtidigt blir utbildningen på andra stadiet avgiftsfri för Studerande som fått en examen eller till året då man phyller 20år. Avgiftsfrihten omfattar den dagliga måltiden, läroböcker och andra material som behövs för genomförandet av utbildningen. Viss typ av specialutrustning som musical instrument finns inte med. Skolresor som är över 7 kilometer är avgiftsfria på andra stadiet. Många fabillioner har det tufft ekonomiskt, till och med så att ekonomin påverkar vilken studievag man väjer. Det visar ungas svar i Ungdomsbarometern. Barnfattigdomen är tuvavar en växande trend, och i vårt land ska alla Oberoende av bakgrund bli vad man vill — vad hen vill. I hörandet i kulturutskottet constaterade barnombudsmannen att ju mer Hon läser sig in på den utvidgade läroplikten, desto mer gillar Hon den. Visst, Detta har ett pris. Ökandet av budgetmedlen är 129 million euro årligen från 2024, då den berör alla årskurser. Regeringen har lovat tacka utgifterna, och vi i kulturutskottet har poängterat att så ska ske. Reformen har som mål att höja utbildnings- och koletensnivån så att de öter dagens krav. Bland gives digitaliseringen gör att arbetsmarknaden förändras. Man vill också öka jämlikheten i utbildningen. Samtidigt vill man att reformen aven ska stärka de ungas välbefinnande och hoja sysselsättningsgraden.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u124	Mr President! Here, Mr Ovaska and some other members of the government have said how positively almost all the statements made in committee have been. I think it's a bit of self-deception, because it hasn't been so much of a pink cloud bounce. However, no matter how much you want something in a particular direction and forwards, you should base it on facts and listen carefully to those people who do things for a living, for example, or are involved in a hobby. Do we have a study on this kind of extension of compulsory education? We do not really have a study of it — from the 1970s to the 1970s in America, where positive things were achieved. Then, about ten years ago, Australia tried this similar thing, and they then failed to reach the finish line with him, as they would have liked. One of the problems there was funding, and it is perhaps also a problem here in Finland at the moment in this matter, what is being tried out. In other words, the funding must be in order if we are to achieve this good objective. Then the second is this timetable: as has been revealed here today, in the follow-up group 28 said that the timetable was too tight and there were 38 people in the follow-up group. As far as the committee is concerned, you can say that almost everyone felt that the timetable was too tight. So we all want this to be a good objective, but perhaps the government will reduce this possibility of achieving it with this timetable and perhaps also with this funding. And what has been said here is what has become apparent that this research and this monitoring is being invested in — this is a very good thing, and I think that this should be kept on the surface in all the experiments. There are a lot of different experiments here, and we should all be able to get research data on what we will be able to use when we make decisions. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u125	Mr President! Statistics Finland has examined the number of dropouts of education in 2018: 94 per cent of completers of comprehensive school continued in education leading to a qualification, 53 per cent of them continued in upper secondary school and 41 per cent in vocational education. In preparatory and preparatory trainings, 1,200 pupils continued and in the so-called 10th grade, 500 completers of comprehensive school. A total of 1,800 completers of comprehensive schools were excluded from all the above-mentioned education — 1,455 of them were under 18 years of age. So in this law we are talking about the drop-out of some 1,500 young people. Mr President! The school is picking on many from the first grade, with neuropsychiatric challenges and operational management challenges. The parents and the school will be squeezed out of all support measures that are possible. With this law, these students will now continue under duress even after primary school. This extension of compulsory education will not help them at all. All these funds, which are now mainly directed to learning materials and school trips, should be directed towards supporting parenthood, early childhood education, basic education and the family work of municipalities. This reform will benefit those for whom it is easy to study, who have no need for support and may never have been. In Finland, all young people who are fit for school receive a secondary degree easily. Mr President! Several experts have criticised the inadequacy of the funding earmarked for reform. In municipalities, it means even larger teaching groups and reducing the hourly framework. What happens to quality education if the budgetary challenges force municipalities to reduce the provision of education in upper secondary schools, for example, and the size of groups only increases? With this reform, the government, and especially the Left Alliance, want to go down in history and get a feather in their hats. I think it is important to think about the timing of such reforms. You can't build a sustainable house on a crumbling foundation. This is what is happening with this reform, and future governments are likely to have to patch it up by many means. In this situation, funds and resources should have preferred to be directed towards special education and reducing group sizes. This is what the Finns have said in their alternative budget, and we also point it out in our objection to this motion. Support must be targeted at those who need it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u126	Mr President! Raising the compulsory education age is an important part of strengthening the education policy of the Government Programme and the objective of raising the educational and competence level of Finnish young people, reducing learning differences and increasing educational equality, and helping to halt the social exclusion of young people. The proposal also includes the strengthening and development of guidance and the free provision of secondary education and the introduction of preparatory education on 1 August 2022. It cannot be that in a Finnish welfare society, 15 per cent of the age group is left without a secondary degree and that they have a significantly weaker starting point for getting a job and building their own way of life in society. Without a degree, it is difficult to cope with the current working life and the employment potential is very low. The employment rate for those who have completed comprehensive school education alone is about 40%, it is about 30-40% lower than for those who have completed a degree. Comprehensive school degrees, as has been said before, rarely survive in today's working life when the skills requirements of working life increase and low-skilled jobs decrease here in Finland. It is essential that the reform provides sufficient monitoring and support for the progress of studies. There must be an increasing need for special education and basic and contact teaching, to which the government has increased resources by means of additional teachers' salaries, as well as in future budgets. The guardians of the compulsory education are increasingly linked and responsible for cooperation with the educational institution and the organiser of education. The supervisory responsibility of guardians is also a good thing, but it is certainly not a problem with sanctions. An important aspect of the reform is the increased obligation for basic education to guide and monitor students' access to post-basic education. This will probably also require an assessment of resources for the ninth graders of comprehensive school in terms of student guidance. It is easy to support the objective of reform that no learner should fall outside the support networks at any time before his or her full age. Of course, this requires stronger support and guidance to find your own place in Finnish society, as the objective of the law is. Mr President! The reform in this Chamber has received a lot of criticism from the opposition. I myself have had a lot of discussions with the youth workers, with many teachers and many officials, and there I am now providing at least a lukewarm green light for this project. These young people in particular see the need for this at the moment. Then these economic and employment effects. After all, the Economic Policy Assessment Council, the STK and Vesa Vipriälä report state that from an economic point of view, reform is fiscally neutral and clearly positive in terms of strengthening economic policy, as are its long-term employment effects.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u127	Mr President! The common goal of this hall certainly is that each young person should complete at least a secondary degree. The problem, however, is not so much to seek out students, but to stay there. Almost everyone is already going to the second stage, but the problem is that too many people are dropping out of secondary education. If you are not interested in your own field of education, you would already need better guidance when the field of education is being chosen. Reducing secondary resources, reducing local education and large groups of students also make it difficult to complete education. Of course, the problem already stems from early childhood education and basic education: up to 11% of those completing comprehensive school have such poor literacy skills that it simply prevents further studies and access to work. The additional years will not then compensate for the lost years when the aid should have been received. Throughout this process, teachers in vocational education and training have come up with a lot of messages about how difficult it is to take students with learning difficulties up to the degree level. There may be linguistic problems, for example due to the background of immigrants and poor basic skills. That is why, in my opinion, those who have completed primary school in the form of amnesty do not benefit from forced years in the second stage, but really that support and assistance should be received earlier. When we know that the resources are limited in any case, then they should be targeted effectively, that is, at an early stage of prevention, targeting support to those in need. Mr President! At the end of the day, I would like to raise a point of view that has come from a small group of Finnish parents who teach at home. They have received messages of concern that this presentation contributes to weakening the grounds for home education. After all, compulsory education is, in principle, an obligation to acquire a certain level of knowledge, not as a school flight or an obligation to take part in education, and adequate knowledge and skills can also be acquired outside schooling, e.g. through home education. Students in home education are not enrolled in an educational institution, but the guardian supervises and takes care of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u128	Mr President! This has often come up with the question of whether we can afford it. And I ask: Can we afford not to invest in learning and raising the level of education? Can we afford not to take care of all the young people? Indeed, what has been criticised here is that money is spent on school materials. Are there many better sources of funding than education, including school materials? Of course, this reform will not solve all the problems, and it is clear that there is also a need for support at school, for smaller group sizes, and we have already taken these reforms forward this season, for example, by restoring the classes of early childhood education to the level they were before they were, before the previous government decided to cut them off, so it seems that some parties, particularly those who have protested here, can never afford to invest in education. The economic and employment effects are positive. It is clear that we also need an increase in the level of education from an economic point of view. New jobs will be created in areas where high skills are needed. The fact that we keep as many people as possible involved and provide training is only sensible and necessary from an economic point of view. I hope that we have a shared vision and vision that Finland will be able to cope with this particular competence. Children and young people are our future, in many ways. This legislation on raising compulsory education and the provision of travel expenses and materials, among other things, is a proposal that we can all be proud of.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u129	Mr President! Having listened to this debate here today, one must wonder, in part, what the duality of this debate has been. First of all, however, I would like to thank the Council of Presidents for having decided to give this matter enough time. This has not even been scheduled, but the historical nature of this solution has been realised. What has been the duality of this debate: there have been exceptionally strong speeches here, when we look at history, the history of our education, Finland as one of the leading model countries in education in the world, and we have seen the steps or steps that have been taken in history, and it has now also been understood that we are currently pressing for a very big reform. On the other hand, there have also been those speeches where there are quite the right reasons for considering whether there is enough money for this point in the budget, and whether secondary education is perfect — problems and falls have been there and so on — they are just sort of things outside the big development cycle that have to be dealt with anyway, i.e. whatever the compulsory age, they have to be dealt with. And in this respect I would like to recall now the historical context from the premise that we have indeed renewed every 50 years: in the 20s compulsory education came, in the 70s this comprehensive school reform system was implemented in its entirety, and now this extension of compulsory education here to 18 years of age and the strong grip of this secondary education on the fact that it is also made free of charge for educational materials, when society ensures that until the age of 18, that is, classically, we have a compulsory education in Finland. This which is born here is a harmonious whole. When it has been said here on the part of the opposition that there is indeed a second degree of difficulty in dealing with matters, not everyone, despite their efforts, is able to get full information and information, they are still unable to participate properly in teaching and so on, these are the things that we have at all levels, and we have to solve them. But as far as the big scale is concerned, there's no doubt about it. When I listened, most of all I wondered about those speeches, including the chairman of the Finns Party, who said that free learning material was a disaster in this situation. I find it incomprehensible to understand such arguments — if we give all the tools we can for our young people to train, learn and learn, and we make it as high and as good as possible and here also free of charge, so that its own financial position does not determine at all the possibility of taking part in that teaching as far as the education itself is concerned,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u130	Mr President! Having heard this debate, I am sure that everything has been said about this reform, but I would like to emphasise that we, of course, value education in the assembly, but we also know that there is a shortage of money, and then we need to think about what the money should be spent on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u135	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! I am a specialist vocational teacher from my education and I think I have a pretty good basis to talk about this. As has been pointed out here in the Chamber, 15% of the age group does not have a secondary degree. The fact that this is now being extended — which, in my opinion, is a good objective, and I myself am concerned about this — is that I would even see that it would be good for this compulsory education to last until the end of the second stage, but here the problem is that when the second stage lasts for three years and these, if I may say so, young people with problems will also be 18 in it during the second stage, it is very likely and I consider it very likely that they will be leaving school when they reach the age of 18. At the moment, the second level is in many professions in a situation where there is less teaching than in secondary school — I myself was not awakened until I looked at the school order of a boy who is in secondary school — and this is a very worrying feature. It's just been happening over the years. Every time there has been a slight increase in the salary of teachers, then at the same time hours have been deducted from that close-up education, and I do not think this is a very good thing. When I was in vocational school, we had 38 hours of education each week. There is a situation there at the moment that there are few days and leap hours, and that does not in any way contribute to this development of the workforce. After all, it would be important for many employers to teach working hours in vocational schools, from eight to four. Then the problem, which is not only the lack of hours, but also the fact that, according to the message I have received from the teachers, there is such a situation that there are people who are willing to apply for it, but then there is positive discrimination, which means that there may be a total lack of language skills and illiteracy for an immigrant who has attended an elementary school of about a year in Finland. This should not seem to be the way our own young people fall off the lines they want. There is still such a problem that, according to the teachers, there are several young people with immigrant background who do not know the language so well that they can even teach them. They do not know the technical vocabulary, they say ‘honey,teacher’ but then do so in such a way as to endanger their safety,and to guard the teacher’s time. In other words, if we are seeking equality in this teaching, good students should also have the opportunity to learn according to their own abilities, and not in the way that they have to go with the weakest or with some languageless immigrant student. I think that your proposal could be greatly improved in such a way — especially now that there are few days, short weeks, low weekly hours — that it should be reduced to half a year in vocational school. There are several lines where the teaching has been stretched to three years in vain. Of course, there are also areas that will certainly require it for three years, but perhaps it should be done as a follow-up course then for that teaching. For example, I would see that building painters should not be trained for three years or preserved in a professional school, but that teaching could well be squeezed into two years — on some lines even for a year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u140	To Mr Mäenpää, I would like to say quite frankly that the wish was not to have such drop-outs who have to go to these different fields, but that young people and later adults are free to choose which sector they want to work in.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u143	Mr President! There has been a debate here on extending compulsory education, and it has been a very interesting debate, as is the case here, because we all share a common objective, but there is only a difference of opinion about the means. It is intellectual dishonesty to say that everyone is behind this — here in the Chamber, but also outside this Chamber. If you think about it when you took a stand on this during the consultation, then almost everyone felt that there was too much time for implementation, and some of it was also a way against it. We have three parties in this Chamber who are particularly divided on this method. Personally, I have been a teacher of vocational education for over a decade and I think that education is always worth it. It is not a question of this being too expensive, but of putting the money in the wrong place. I'd really like to help those kids who are going to fall off that sled. The objective that everyone should have at least a secondary degree must indeed be supported. Currently, about 15 per cent of the age group does not achieve a secondary degree. However, extending compulsory education is not a valid means of doing so. Forcedness never serves as a motivational tool, and this was specifically said, for example, by Professor Lonka, whom we had to speak in that committee. Mr Gustafsson has just made a bit of a mistake in his own speech, but it is quite understandable that if you are hugely fanatical about something, then there are sometimes some difficulties in memory. But in any case, as has been said here, the student who has been carried will not remain in the class. Moreover, compulsory education would increase from 16 to 18 years of age, but upper secondary education usually lasts at least one year more. The problems arising from the drop-out of secondary education are complex and require many different solutions. When asked why young people interrupt, most of the reason has been that there is a wrong choice in the field or there is another welfare problem. Approximately one in eight young people complete comprehensive school without sufficient capacity for further studies. Some 20 per cent of children and young people have different mental health problems. With this in mind, we will not, if we have 20% of mental health problems, start mood medication or therapy for everyone, just as we are doing now, with the same treatment for everyone. It doesn't make sense. Similarly, neuropsychological problems have increased. For example, the incidence of ADHD is about 5%. Some young people face challenges with motivation and life management. In addition, there are many other problems, such as drugs and drugs, and families have many problems with their lives today. The impact on learning outcomes has not yet been analysed, but it is clear that learning difficulties have grown in some pupils and that learning outcomes have deteriorated. Now is the time to make sure that all children and young people are taken care of. If the basis is not in order, it will not be corrected by extending the compulsory education age. Just as Mr. Juuso quoted — in the same way as I had written — no new floor will be built in the house if there are fractures on its stone foot. The government is quite right to allocate more resources to early childhood education and basic education. However, the additions are temporary and do not provide a sustainable basis. Similarly, the money earmarked for extending compulsory education is not sufficient to implement it; EUR 116 million of the EUR 129 million allocated is estimated to go to learning materials and school travel, that is to say, to everyone — that is, everyone — when it is particularly necessary for those who need it. At the end of the day, all other necessary measures and obligations that are being imposed on the providers of education by law should be taken care of. The result of this is that the missing money is taken from the backs of teachers and the quality of education in municipalities which are experiencing financial difficulties. Especially in a bad situation is the high school network. We are currently missing EUR 100 million from high school, and municipalities are paying — for example, in a town the size of Seinäjoki, 60% comes from the city of Seinäjoki. And when this comes to it, it will be an even worse situation. Today, in the media, in Helsingin Sanomat, it is stated that we ourselves, in our report — which was well-bonded in this section of our report — are concerned about the high school network. Is that what we want to do? I myself am a child of a small high school, a parent of a Alahärmä high school, and I want to keep a high school network, and for that reason too, I am fighting for the money to be enough for a high school network. The government calls on economists, who themselves have said, however, that extending compulsory education does not guarantee that everyone will complete a degree. Of course, the quality of early childhood education must be improved and the fees for early childhood education should be further reduced. We in the assembly would also undertake this two-year pre-school education, from which the experiment will now start — well done. Address problems in time, ensure the necessary support for the whole family. Reform the entire comprehensive school, keep the groups small enough and enable individuality and flexibility in education, namely one learns by reading, the other by doing. Young people may be exchanged from primary to secondary school, and student guidance will be increased especially in upper secondary schools. Reform the training of joint stages in order to facilitate the transition of young people from the second stage. In vocational education and upper secondary school, local education and versatile learning support as well as student guidance will be increased. Above all, timely, multi-professional and individual support must be ensured for those in need throughout the early childhood education and school path. This requires, among other things, the reform and enhancement of student and student care and special education. Financial support will also be increased to ensure that no one's school fails for economic reasons. Yes, it is that well-being and well-motivated students, as well as a sufficient number of teachers and other experts, are the best guarantee that the objectives of education and training will be achieved at every stage. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u144	Madam President! I have made a great many speeches on this reform. Now I thought about just saying the things that have come to mind today as I followed this debate. A great many members of the government advertised that this is an historic moment and an historic day when such a major change is being made. Unfortunately, when I listened to these pathetic speeches, which were very hostile to the comments made by the opposition here very well, I wonder whether it is more important to be involved in this historic decision than to actually address those major problems in the school system. Maybe I'm wrong. I hope so. Nevertheless, I would still like to highlight the problems that this does not actually address. I also said that I personally have no ideological objections to this. Education, the school system is one of the finest, most important things to put taxpayers' money in. But if you think about this through practical measures, would it be appropriate first to correct in a little more depth the problems of the graphs that exist at the moment in primary and vocational education and then make such a major reform of the system, and even if you raise it even higher than compulsory schooling, because we do know that the higher the level of education that a person is, the more likely he is to be at work? In many of my speeches, I have also raised the issue of local government finances, which, in particular in such a situation, are faced with a great burden of such reform, especially when a great many experts have said that these costs will not be fully reimbursed. And it will then affect, for example, the level of education, the number of local education courses and other school activities and services. I also mentioned in that debate that I find the free-of-charge aspect of this reform much less problematic and should have been done separately. If it had been done first — since it is certainly important for everyone that no school should be cut off from economic challenges — then it would have been possible to consider this matter of compulsory education otherwise. In fact, I myself am one of those high school students who would have benefited from such a reform. For example, in the math class, I was the only one who didn’t have a graphic calculator, precisely because I couldn’t afford one. Then I would like to point out that many speeches here have said that this will improve employment, skills, learning and well-being. This is not as straightforward as many have described. There are various processes and problems going on in schools, which are actually getting faster and faster — in terms of polarisation, for example, that is, others are doing better and others are doing worse — and which may even make these goals empty. With regard to the free movement of goods: It has been pointed out that it is a transfer to the good people. This is absolutely true. But if you think that this needs to be done between taxpayers, then I'm fine with it. But what problems do we have here? If, at the same time, the government does not interfere with the book publishers’ business, i.e. the fact that new books come in high school all the time, these costs will even run away. It is essential that this be addressed. The second thing is that this weakens the attractiveness of small upper secondary schools, as has been read in the newspapers today. Similarly, in a city like Helsinki, it added that more and more people came from outside the city, which, among other things, raised the average limits even higher and at the same time derailed more Helsinkiers from the possibility of going to their own city high school. The Administrative Committee also heard this problem in its own expert consultations. In any case, what is needed for schools, apart from the absolute need for more teaching resources, is that there should be some kind of cultural or pedagogical change in understanding that mistakes have been made. Even in recent years, mistakes have been made and they can still be corrected. I believe that the authority of the teacher is not what it should be. Many other things are too lax in modern school. I don't want discipline, I don't want authority. This reminds me of the fact that Mr Andersson argued there that it is not good now that these young people do not stay home alone, that they are still in compulsory education at the second stage. I would like to know why a young person cannot stay at home. At the moment there are elementary school students who have hundreds of hours of absenteeism and nothing is being done about this. In fact, I know one such child who is in the ninth grade — hundreds of hours away — and yet does nothing at all. Should I intervene in such matters, perhaps, first? Then again, when several speakers have referred to the fact that only those who attend primary school have more problems, more challenges and even more crime: this kind of logic has a somewhat similar atmosphere to the fact that ice cream consumption increases the number of drowning deaths. After all, we all realize that it does not really depend on the fact that a person has only attended comprehensive school, but there are probably reasons and problems that cause a young person to leave education only in primary school. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u145	Madam President! For several hours I have heard very good speeches, half of the arguments on the other. But there is one thing I am very surprised about, namely that the Minister of Education has not been seen for many hours in this Chamber, and such an important issue is being discussed, so it is a bad sign that there is no desire to have a fundamental debate with Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u149	Mr President! There has already been a long line of good, constructive and complementary speeches, and they have been very educational in this respect. Although we are divided about some things, I believe that there is one thing that unites us. It is that we will probably all share the idea that there has been a change in learning in society, which has been boosted, for example, by the digitalization of the corona, new curricula and so on. And this change in learning in society will certainly force all of us to think about education in part in a completely new way. Instead of an old system-centred and perhaps compartmentalized and constrained thinking, I believe that the learner, that is, the person, should be placed at the heart of this debate too. In the future it will certainly be the learner’s learning that will become constant and limitless, which is also supported by such thinking of continuous learning. Above all, whatever the educational system is, it is its job to serve man and, consequently, society as well, and of course it must interact closely with the steps of the various educational pathways. For our society, such a new world is always an opportunity. Such future education is expanding, making it even more relevant. And that new era requires a change in the means of education policy. And the necessary means that we have discussed here today is the extension of compulsory education. President! Such ideological opposition to reform, or support in itself, may not save any young people or make them better off on the educational path. Here, for example, energy should be directed towards making this reform, the elements within it, as good as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u150	Mr President! I would like to start by saying that you would think that Mr Niko of the third term would know that the Minister is present in the referral debate because it is his presentation, but the committee's report is presented by the chairman of the committee, but, despite this, Mr Andersson was present today and listened to the speeches for a long time. Mr President! There has been so many repetitions of the mantra in this Chamber that the government does not invest in the early stages of the learning process and in the basic stage, that I shall now correct such an argument in my second speech. In fact, the government is making a permanent investment — note! Permanently — 18 million for upper secondary school education, 29 million for student and student care, 17 million for the restoration of subjective early childhood education rights, 16 million for the reduction of group sizes, 70 million for the reduction of early childhood education fees. In addition, fixed-term investments amount to 270 million for the vocational sector, 190 million for the three-year comprehensive school quality and equality programme, 125 million for the quality and equality programme for early childhood education. Mr opposition, we are currently correcting the adverse effects of your administrative cuts of some 700 million in education on the whole field of education. That is why it seems grotesque, to say the least, that you are constantly repeating here the argument that extending compulsory education is out of the question. We are investing in every step of the learning path, and we are also implementing the biggest educational policy reform in recent history that promotes equality. I would also like to take up this argument, both for the Finns and for the Coalition Party, that such a universal reform should not be carried out in terms of free payment, because (a) it would be a transfer to the well-off, and (b) support should only be targeted at those who need it most. Throughout history, it has been considered important in Finland that the education system guarantees opportunities for progress for everyone. It has historically been our asset of success, the fruits of which are to be admired here from other parts of the world. The foundation of the welfare state is free education for all. It is a much more effective and fair way than a stigmatising and bureaucratic support for low incomes. It is much more equal than a system in which one has to beg and testify separately to his own need for help. Mr President! Mr Purra here earlier said that the government's proposal is strongly ideological and he is approaching the issue from a practical point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u158	Mr President! It is important that when moving forward with compulsory education reform, the reasons behind the drop-out are carefully addressed. The Amisbarometri asked the respondents what the reasons have been for considering changing the sector or dropping out of studies. The most common reason was that the current sector was not interested, 37 per cent thought so, so maybe a place of study has been acquired or chosen that doesn't feel like one of its own. Other reasons were the lack of interest in studying, 26 per cent; learning difficulties, 20 per cent; not feeling well in the student group, 19 per cent; work related to studies, 16 per cent; weak financial situation, 12 per cent; poor health, 9 per cent; relationships with people, 8 per cent; and discrimination and racism, 7 per cent. It is very accurate now that this reform is being put into practice, that these are being listened to with a sensitive ear, that these responses from young professional students are being listened to with a sensitive ear. They really bring out the very things that are most important in this implementation, and we have also sought answers to these questions in the opinions of the Committee on Culture and Education. These include the fact that we need a sufficient number of those study places so that it is possible to change if the industry does not feel comfortable. There must be enough guidance to then find solutions to the problems if the sector is not suitable and what the future profession is. Support is needed if you have learning difficulties. Many people have mental health problems, as the chairman of the committee said here. It is very important to provide support for young people so that the solution can be found in the support and not in the fact that studies are not finished as they are at present. There must be enough student care, both communal and individual. You have to prevent bullying. That's another big problem at second grade. So these solutions are needed. Many have also criticized free learning materials. It is good to remember that these costs have been an obstacle to the study of so many young people. Upper secondary school costs 2500 euros, and the professional side has chef knives and all-looking protective equipment and hairstyles that pay. ♪ When you save me ♪ Children explained this, so 60 percent of the young people who answered their questionnaire felt that the cost has been a challenge for the family. The youth barometer shows that 17% have reduced study options, and half of those who do not have a degree or a place to study have reduced just because there is a lack of money. It is very important that free study materials are no longer poor aid to be applied for, but a universal benefit that is available to all our young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u159	Madam President! As chairman of the Parliamentary Children Group, I would like to stress that we are now discussing a truly historic reform of the rights of the child. With this reform, we are sending out a message from this Chamber that the opportunity for learning belongs to everyone. Free second level and longer compulsory education promote the right of the child to education and improve the equality of the Finnish education system. I think it is very important that, in addition to raising the level of education and the employment rate, the reform aims to improve the well-being of children and young people. Although the level of education does not guarantee better pay in the same way, it remains closely linked to the increase in well-being. Studies show that education is one of the most important issues when we talk about preventing disadvantage and exclusion. For me, as a left-wing politician, addressing the overgenerational disadvantage is one of the most important goals, and it is also essential to promote the rights of the child. Mr President! How many of us in this Chamber still knew exactly where they were going when they were 15 to 16? Sometimes we adults do well to remember what it was like to be a teenager. I therefore think it is very important that, as part of the reform, support and guidance for children be improved between and during primary and secondary education. Children are also in very different positions as to how their parents can support these choices. Moreover, many children still have a difficult stage in life at this stage, as the report of the Committee on Culture also refers to. When basic education ends, young people are both mentally and legally underage and many are still in the turmoil of puberty. Young people are very smart, but it is still very human that we do not demand long-term choices at this stage, but that we allow children to be children. This is guaranteed by the longer compulsory education and the stronger responsibility of us adults to keep everyone involved. In addition, the government has a number of actions to address the quality and equality of early childhood education and basic education. Early intervention and extension of compulsory education are not mutually exclusive, but both are needed. Children’s lives and challenges are individual and do not go according to any one pattern. The challenges of learning for others can be addressed in early childhood education, the challenges of learning for others or other life will not be met much later. That is why we must also invest in the end of compulsory education. The entire course of learning is important for the child’s rights to be realised. Mr President! A very important part of the reform is also the implementation of the free second stage. For years, many experts and organisations in the field of child and youth policy have considered this to be a very important objective. I was confused by the objection in the report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media that the costs of education are rarely the cause of the interruption. This may be about the co-operative bubble where there is no understanding of the reality of low - income families. You are now looking at a person who did not interrupt high school but who had to ask for money to be borrowed from relatives in textbooks. Yes, we, who caused the stress of secondary costs, can also be found in this hall, and I can say that there are many of them outside this hall, if we can only listen to children and young people, and that is what we need to hear, as in all other decisions. According to the youth barometer, 17 per cent of young people feel that they have had to reduce their study options due to lack of money. This figure applied to all respondents aged 15 to 29, but for those who did not have a post-basic level qualification, the percentage was as high as 42. According to a report by the Save the Children Association, 12.9% of respondents felt that secondary costs have been a major challenge, and 46.9% felt that costs have posed some challenges. Everything is, of course, relative, and perhaps in co-operative mathematics these are small figures, but I personally regard them as important. I really hope that the stress and anxiety caused by second-degree costs will not be underestimated in this way. I am also sending this same message to the Finns of Finland, who believe that second-degree free-of-charge is mainly a transfer of income to the well-earned. That is not what free training is about; it is about strengthening the security nets of the welfare state. They ensure that all children have the opportunity to train as far as they want, even if the family is low incomes or if there are unexpected financial or other life-related setbacks in a middle-income family. Yes, they can come to anyone, as this corona crisis has sorely reminded us. Mr President! In the past, Finland has overcome difficult times by investing in knowledge. I'm really glad we're doing so smart again. The interest-rate crisis has only made this reform more topical as more and more families are struggling with income problems. During this autumn I have listened to a number of experts on child policy, whose message to us decision-makers is clear: financial support for families with children must be strengthened. The second level, free of charge, is therefore an important financial support for families with children, and I am very happy and happy that the parliamentary debate on the reform is now in the final stages. Next year, this reform, which my party has been pursuing since the 1990s, will finally be true. This is indeed a historic moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u160	Madam President! In this debate on the extension of compulsory education there has been talk of coercion. There is no school obligation in Finland; the Constitutional Committee recorded this in its report. For example, upper secondary school can be completed by examination or vocational training on screens, as is the case today. Rather, it is the right of a young person to learn and the duty of society to keep everyone involved until the age of 18. As a special teacher, I am pleased that we are now building a complete and smooth school path, where everyone is shown a suitable route through the pits and gorges towards the next step, a secondary degree that is now needed by the ever-changing working life. You can't go to elementary school anymore. It is great that we now have five routes from comprehensive school onwards: preparatory education alongside upper secondary school and vocational school, folk colleges, apprenticeships and preparatory education for the work and independent life of people with disabilities. Travelers, teachers, special teachers, tutors, student counselors, psychologists, curators are needed alongside the route. Their close cooperation is needed. There is a need for cooperation between school and home, between authorities and home. Representative Kauma raised the issue of children and young people in the danger zone. Danger zones and places of danger come all the way, along the route. They come in early childhood education, they come in primary education, but they also come after comprehensive school. That is why we need this structural reform. One danger is lack of money. Many families with children live in poverty. I remember from my own home of many schoolchildren how high school money was. There are still families like this. There are many reasons for dropping out of school and not applying for school. It can thus be the source of exclusion. Free secondary education is a significant hand-out for Finnish young people and their families. Of course, other family support measures are also needed, but this is one. This is the construction of a child-friendly and family-friendly Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u161	Madam President! I personally feel that compulsory education reform is the most important part of the long-term objective of education policy. The reform thus narrows learning gaps, increases educational equality and gives everyone equal opportunities to train according to their abilities regardless of the family’s financial situation. It seems strange that someone in this Chamber would object to these goals for some strange reason. Apart from the above-mentioned issues that are most important for the young person's life, the reform will also bring other positive phenomena. According to the Economic Policy Evaluation Council, to which reference has also been made in the debate, a two-year extension of compulsory education would, in the long term, generate some EUR 140 million in fiscal benefits for public finances — not a small sum. According to STK’s assessment, extending compulsory education to 18 years of age may be the most effective single employment measure in the government. Of course, it's a longer period of time than that. According to the STTK estimate, employment rates can rise by up to four percentage points, which, in terms of the current population base, would mean up to 150,000 new jobs. Madam President! There have been two particular criticisms of this debate today. It is hoped that reforms should focus on early childhood education and that all resources should be concentrated on individual support and joint development. I would like to continue to remind you, as many representatives in this Chamber have already done, that compulsory education reform does not in any way exclude these. The quality of early childhood education has been improved, group sizes have been reduced and subjective full-time early childhood education rights for all children, regardless of the status of parents, have been restored — good because they talk about the child’s ultimate right. A student guidance development programme has also been launched. The "Right to Learning" development programme places emphasis on the quality of early childhood education and basic education. In addition, according to the Government Programme, student and student care services will be strengthened. Madam President! I dare myself to think that the compulsory education reform that the government is carrying out is a future act, but in a broader sense it is also an act of well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u162	Mr President! Mr Risikko used to speak here, referring to Mr Gustafsson, saying that he must have forgotten some detail in the debate, and Mr Risikko said that when Mr Gustafsson so fanatically defended something, it happens to such fanatical people at times that the details are forgotten. Perhaps I should like to point out, however, that if Mr Gustafsson — Mr President — is described as a fanatic in this matter, he will talk about his life’s work. Representative Gustafsson, if anyone, is a representative of Parliament with a great deal of experience in education matters, is strongly committed to their various dimensions and has also served as Minister of Education in Finland. He, if anyone, even has the right to be a bit fanatical at the moment — if this term is used — when we are making fundamental reform in Finland. — — — — Congratulations, Mr Gustafsson, on your committed, determined attitude to this issue. I wanted to take this second speech, in fact, from that angle — and I also looked at some facts in relation to it — from what perspective we had to look at the compulsory education law of 1921 in Finland, in view of the fact that today we are extending this concept of compulsory education to practically cover secondary education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u169	All I have to say to Mr Kiljunen is that, at least not once have the people of the United States said that this would be expensive, but that we — when education is always in favour — felt that the place where the money should be put should be different. And as far as Mr Gustafsson is concerned: We have a long history in this house, and we have been in the same committees, and we are very much like this when we talk a lot about these issues. There is nothing wrong with his professionalism, on the contrary, I respect and appreciate it, but the fact that he has just claimed that he has not spoken about such a matter as you have referred to was not true, but that we had in committee — because I have all hid it in my heart. But as far as these good debates are concerned today, I would like to thank you, when Mr Noora Koponen is still here, for having been very much on the side of special children and also on the side of the disabled, because it is close to my heart. At the time this bill came, I received a lot of feedback on how to deal with the situation of people with disabilities. And I think that the fact that the Invalidity League also made a good statement to us was rather revolutionary then that we were able to roll them, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also drew attention, thank you for that. I would like to say to Mrs Hänninen that thank you for sharing your own experience. I know what it feels like to have to think about what I would eat today, whether I buy bananas or buy Mandarin — because they happened to be the cheapest in January when I went to nursing school. It may always be easy to punch stamps that when you are a party or you have a degree or something, you have not been able to experience poverty. Don't fall for that. But I say to Mrs Hänninen that it was a touching report, which you told us, and I agree with you that everyone should have the opportunity — even in the face of bad economic situations — to have access to education. Well, that's the rocky foot of it all, isn't it? Well, we could talk about this a lot. The truth is that we have two opinions on this issue, that what is an impressive way and where should the money be put? That's where we're going to get nowhere. We also have researchers outside this house: economists disagree with educational scientists and teachers and principals. And that is what I was just calling for, that we should hear widely from these researchers and experts so that we can have an even better government proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u170	Madam President! First of all, it must be said to the members of the government that, of course, the MP has the right here to call for the Minister of Responsibility to be involved in the debate if he wishes to discuss it here. This is one of the most important laws in the field of education during this parliamentary term, and if anyone is on maternity leave, will not the government also change the minister at that stage? [Left: The Minister was there!] But, Mr President, let us get straight to the point, that is all. Of course, it is good to invest in education. The Finns and the opposition are in no way against it. It is good that additional resources are being created, invested in money and new laws are being put in place accordingly, in order to support equal access to secondary education for all. However, there are a lot of shortcomings in this government proposal that Parliament should discuss. The rates of drop-out of vocational training presented in the expert consultation are so alarming that it is not possible to solve the underlying problems by means of the proposed mechanically expanding and prolonging legislation on compulsory education. In general, the second stage is often too late to address learning difficulties and to prevent the drop-out of education if these issues have not been addressed during basic education. The Finns have criticised the size of this appropriation in the sense that this alone is not enough, because other measures should have been taken before compulsory education had been extended. In the opinion of the Finns Party, the budget should rather have been allocated primarily to the development of basic education and its structures. In addition, funds should have been allocated to provide adequate further learning capacities in basic education, including student guidance, study care and other social and health care services for young people. This is the central criticism the Finns make to the government. The lack of staff in vocational training and the lack of local education and other problems together are also a key issue that should be addressed. There should be more resources in vocational school if we start to insist that students who are not, in principle, suitable for a learning environment such as a vocational school, for example, until the age of 18, should also study there. The lack of local education is a major problem in many parts of comprehensive school, and it continues especially as secondary education continues. These resources should be invested in rather than referred to as compulsory education as a mechanical remedy. Mr President! We believe that learning problems and those young people's unwillingness to go to the second stage will not be solved by mechanically expanding compulsory education. As a result, the Finns of Peru will protest against this motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u171	Mr President! There is no easy sport in this education policy. To Mr Niiko, on your last question on these study social benefits: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of which I was also a Member, and I am, dealt with this issue in this debate. It is worth reading the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. They have accepted this government proposal. Perhaps in the sideline I say that, unfortunately, we have such overlaps in the case of various types of study social, educational and other educational benefits that such problems can arise at individual level, and they are of course neither good nor acceptable, but they must then be assessed and corrected in the future. And this is a good donkey bridge for that... Thank you, Congressman Kimmo Kiljune, not for what you said to me, but for lifting this entire education system... [The PresidentAnuVehviläinen : I request that a representative be appointed in this ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u178	Madam President! Mr Kiljunen felt it was a problem a moment ago to criticise this funding for the reform. Well, do we have any research on this extension of compulsory schooling? We have very little of it. There is something about the world — as I said before. In Australia it was tried about ten years ago, and according to information from Australia, one of the three problems of why they did not achieve this good goal, which they too wanted, was just this funding. So I think that's what we should talk about here, too. Then what I was asking earlier — and this evening has already gone further — is what no representative of the government parties has really taken a stand on, which is why almost all the experts were walked over this question of timetables. This is also not the kind of lawmaking that is promised in the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u179	Mr President! Educational equality has been building the success of Finnish society. The rise of Finland to one of the most competent people in the world has been largely due to the fact that we have offered everyone the opportunity to train and acquire skills. However, educational equality is an objective for which to work for every generation. The world has changed, and primary school alone no longer guarantees a young person employment. According to various studies, thousands of young people are excluded from secondary education each year. Up to 15 per cent of Finns have not completed upper secondary education by the age of 25. Children with low income families in particular have a high share. Increasing the compulsory education age and the second level free of charge are gender equality measures that eradicate inequality, improve young people's chances of coping with working life and increase the chances of success for Finnish society. The reform of compulsory education is also a concrete step towards preventing the inheritance of poverty. In the case of a young person, the family’s lack of means should not affect his education prospects. However, the lack of money is currently a major obstacle to training for young people. As many as a quarter of those who drop out of a secondary degree are responsible for the lack of money. It is no wonder, then, that young people themselves are also in favour of extending compulsory education to cover the entire secondary level, as we have been told by the youth barometers. Mr President! The reason for extending compulsory education is a long-term change in Finnish working life. The number of jobs corresponding to primary education has decreased significantly and this trend will only continue in the future. There is a need to react to this. It is irresponsible of us decision-makers to allow a young person to make a decision at the age of 15, which has a significant impact on the employment opportunities of this future. That is why I am very pleased that the reform will enable us to ensure that all young people are better off in today's work. Mr President! The SDP has long sought to extend the compulsory education age. In the long term, this reform will also have a significant positive impact on the employment rate. This reform is one of the most important legal projects of the Marin government, and I am proud to be involved in promoting this great milestone in educational equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u180	Mr President! Just a few more words. There has been a great deal of mention here of the positions taken on this matter, and scientists have taken a stand on this, and above all the teachers and principals have taken a stand on this. We have heard a great deal of experience and opinions there, and I must say, as chairman of the committee, that there have been both pros and cons and there have been good development proposals, but it is indeed intellectual dishonesty to say that everyone has been for this, no, there have been those who have been against it. What grieves me in particular is that teachers, principals, education leaders, those who have hands in the clay are against this, and that is always a bad sign in the sense that they feel that they have not been heard at the time that this has been prepared and that they will not be heard at the time when decisions are made. And if you don't get heard when you're doing it, it's even worse, and that's why I want to remind you now that when this thing leaves this house, at that point we have to remember that now we have to hear those who are doing this. Another such critical point, in my opinion, with the introduction of this legislative package here was, of course, a hurry, and we were in no position to do anything about it at the moment, but we did not have time to carry out an impact assessment of the decisions taken by the Constitutional Committee and of the recommendations of this kind. Although it was not required, we were directly told that the effects of the consequences should be assessed. Then I had an outside expert make them what they could be, and they are related to terminology, free teaching and the provision of teaching. That is why, as I have already said at that committee meeting, I would have liked — and that was what was voted on there, even in our protest, and the Finns of Peru agreed with us — to see again what the consequences were, or even that the government had done them and then had been brought to us for information, but unfortunately it did not. I had to put it in an objection, but I also had to put it in the Minutes, because I want the history books to remain, because it has clearly been said to us that this will have repercussions, but it has not been done here. So the work continues, we still need development work for this. We need a lot of funding, especially because of those statements which are now there, and then, of course, these legislative clarifications are needed. But at this point, of course, we are pleased that we have already reached this stage before Christmas, although very much this has done, and I would like to thank the committee advisers in this connection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u181	Irade fru talman! Som medlem av grundlagsutskottet har jag variants med och behandlat det rai lagförslaget från ett grundlagsperktiv för att säkerstalla att lagförslaget är i enlighet med grundlagen. Lagförslaget har stor principiell betydelse för bland you give grundlagens krav på lasabehandling, § 6 Article 16, men också för personskydd 10 § Article 21 och rättsskydd. Grundlagsutskottet har enhälligt beslutat att lagförslaget är förenligt med grundlagen så länge kulturutskottet tar de ox anmärkningarna i beaktande, Vilket man har gjort. Men det är självfallet viktigt att man också fortsättningsvis följer med de rauh sakerna i en så rai stor reform. Irade fru talman! Grundlagsutskottet har också granskat det ox lagförslaget delvis ur ett åländskt perspectiveiv. Article 18 of Enligt självstyrelselagens Article 14 of the hör utbildningsfrågor till åländsk behörighet, och precis på samma sätt som regeringspropositionnen konstatear så är den rauhi behärigheten åländsk och det slår också grundlagsutskottet fast, och det gör att den raus reformen inte gäller på Åland. Om Åland kommer införa samma reform som i fasta Finland — i riket — är naturligtvis en fråga som inte vi kan ta ställning till i riksdagens plenisal, och som inte jag Heller som Ålands riksdagsledamot har en åsikt om, utan det är en fråga för Ålands lagting att ställning till. Det är också någonting som vi undertryker från grundlagsutskottets sida, att det är åländsk behärighet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u182	Madam President! When I think about this reform, I think that this is one of the most important long-term employment measures we have taken. When I think about our jobs and their success on the world market, how export industry products compete very hard with other producer countries, I think that Finnish industry needs new talent — the old ones start, because of our age structure, slowly waning away. It is important that the success of Finnish industry rests on knowledge and quality — and excellence, to finish that side. Good, skilled workers are really needed both in planning and in making, they must be the world's top, and this amount of training — which has been discussed about this price — will bring us back, through jobs and exports, the money we put here, that is absolutely certain. Let me take an example: It is known that theft is an industrial city on top of the last; it is an international industry. AFT, a Japanese company, launched a competition for places to invest in their own metal and energy industries. It counterbalanced Canada as a place, and the Canadian State supported the decision that they would come to Canada. But at that educational level and at that level of competence Varkaus won its competition when, according to EU rules, the state cannot go to support this kind of activity. It was in Varkaus for us and brought a considerable amount of new jobs. If we look at this whole thing in our place and at the educational opportunities for young people, at the moment this system, which is on the table here, has been built in such a way that we start with early childhood education and basic education, that we get the whole chain in order that no one falls out of our education. That's why we need to think about the reality we're living in here. We are such a small people that we cannot afford to lose any young people or children out of secondary education so that they cannot get a job. We need them all according to our working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u185	Madam President! There has been a wide-ranging and sometimes intense debate here, and it is important that this has been widely evaluated. So historic is the decision that it is important that different views have been expressed here. I would just like to make one small point when concerns have been raised here, both in the speeches and in the interlocutors, about the funding of municipalities and education, and the argument that the funding allocated to this is not enough to begin with, and this would mean a cut in education elsewhere. If you look at what is a lobby organization, a lobbyist, a advocate, it is the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, and if you compare the estimate of the costs and the estimate of costs by the Ministry of Education and Culture, the difference is EUR 10 million. Well, it may sound like a lot, but I asked the Ministry of Education and Culture to calculate how much the total funding for basic education per year is. It is EUR 7500 million, including municipal and state money. If this difference of opinion, which is 10 million, goes through, it means that in this difference of opinion — we do not know which one is right, the Association of Local Authorities or the Ministry of Education and Culture, but somewhere in this fork that difference of opinion is — the issue is the share of 0.13%, or per mill, in the annual funding of basic education. In other words, even now, even if the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities is entirely correct and the view of the Ministry of Education and Culture is a little low, this percentage difference in annual funding will lead to the consequences that many here have feared. I would just like to point out that there is little concern here and, on this basis, it is hardly in favour of opposing this historic major and important reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u195	Mr President! To Mr Niiko, I would like to point out that the committee has made a great deal of the various contributions that have been debated here many times in the course of the debate. There are various aspects of monitoring, including those relating to the adequacy of funding, which means that all these issues will be reviewed and followed up. But, Mr President, I would like to thank the representatives for a very good debate and, at the end of this debate, I would like to draw their attention to the small addition made by the committee to the objectives of the compulsory education law. In the spirit of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, we added the words “Children and young people’s well-being”. These words crystallize to me what this is all about, not only is it about education and education: it is also about the welfare of children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u196	Mr President! What Mrs Eloranta said was an excellent addition, because we want to increase that health and well-being. But in relation to this economic situation in the municipalities: Yes, there is yet another ignorance if we do not know how difficult the situation is at the moment in the municipalities. The municipalities are in such bad oxygen that if Tampere survives, as Mr Gustafsson said here, it will not work out for us. We have municipalities in a very weak situation. Mr Arhinmäki has spoken with merit but said that this is only 1% and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u199	Mr President! With regard to this aspect of funding: the Government has indeed committed itself to fully reimburse the municipalities for the additional obligations, and this proposal also applies. This is now the EUR 10 million disagreement, according to the calculation by the Ministry and the municipal union, but there is this statement in the report that it is being followed up, and that is what must be done, and then, if necessary, the amount of compensation for the local government economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u202	Mr President! It may not be quite right for me to be the last speaker in this historic debate today, but it is necessary to make that speech because the last vote on the Vantaa side does not leave Mr Nikon's view. On behalf of my own town, I too would like to say a few words about what Mr Niikko said. Yes, he is right that Vantaa recognizes the problem that we have in relation to education in relation to the pressures here. But here I want to say publicly that the leadership of Vantaa's civil society, like the majority of us — I dare not say that the vast majority, when it has not been measured, but the majority — of political actors and also of citizens, are strongly, strongly and strongly in favour of raising this compulsory education age. That is what we must recognise, despite the fact that these financial burdens are being seen here. I would also like to make it clear that yes, the drop-out problem is a phenomenon that also exists in Finland at primary school level. We also have a lack of complacency at school in younger age groups, and we do not solve that indiscretion at school by going back to what it is, 15 to 16 years at the moment, but this fundamentality is one thing, and then these problems of school complacency, many other things that need to be resolved separately as part of the overall school system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u203	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 33/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u204	Mr. Speaker! It was a fine, historic decision to extend compulsory education, which I enjoyed very much, and I see its historical significance. It is also a positive thing in itself, although a little different, which may also contribute to the challenges of the future. So this is a tax law, and I will present this section as chairman of the tax section. This makes the entity a taxable person in Finland if its actual place of management is in Finland, i.e. this prevents tax avoidance. A typical example is that this prevents us from going and putting, for example, the box companies in Estonia and then avoiding taxation here in the country of origin. Some experts have welcomed this very much, some have criticised it. In general, this fills gaps in taxation. This is a good tool for tax control. This fights against the shadow economy and, overall, prevents artificial arrangements to avoid tax. These are the elements in favour, and I have to say that the committee explicitly emphasises them, agrees with these views. Then some experts have voiced criticism of this. It has come from seeing that there is no clear need or that there would be no significant tax revenue effect or that this would undermine predictability or this kind of situation. But here the committee strongly agrees with the explanatory statement of this law and the need for this, and in our committee's report we consider this draft law to be very necessary and positive. A few points have been examined in this text of the report. One of them concerns, for example, this so-called temporary transitional rule for foreign funds, and the question is that some of them felt that it should now be stated in this law that there is no real place of management here in Finland if the foreign fund is managed here by a Finnish service provider. The committee considers that, during the two-year transitional period, the issue needs to be somewhat clarified and, at the same time, the importance of this deviation must be assessed, both in terms of safeguarding the tax base and in terms of efficiency. This is accompanied by this statement of objection, which is why I specifically mentioned it here. All in all, we emphasise the monitoring of this law and the comprehensiveness of the guidance provided by the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u205	Mr President! This government proposal is an important reform to prevent tax avoidance and strengthen the Finnish tax base. The main problem with the current tax system is that capital flows freely across borders and companies operate internationally, but regulation remains largely national. It is therefore very important that we now tackle aggressive tax planning. In particular, the proposal addresses tax avoidance, which makes use of companies registered abroad, whose activities are, however, effectively managed from Finland. In an expert committee consultation with the Tax Division of which I myself am a member, the Tax Administration's Grey Financial Clearing House stated that it considered this amendment of the law to be very important and worthy of support. Mr President! International companies can now make use of artificial arrangements and avoid taxes by transferring their profits to low-tax countries. This undermines the tax base and jeopardises the financing of our society's services and also social benefits. A legislative amendment to the so-called "rule of command" is an important step towards eliminating tax avoidance. It extends Finland’s tax law to companies registered abroad for tax reasons but located in Finland. Today, a company registered abroad can be acquired by a few hundred online sites without actually entering the country. At about the same price, you can also obtain a postal address from abroad. According to the Tax Administration's reports alone, there are tens of thousands of Finnish-based companies in Estonia, of which in 2018 around 3,000 were owned and possibly derived from Finland. Mr President! As stated in the report of the Committee on Finance, the management rule is an important tool for tax control. It will enable the black economy to be combated when efforts have been made to conceal revenue and funds using the foreign company. First of all, regulation has a deterrent effect on artificial arrangements. It is impossible to know exactly what the tax revenue from the provision is, but in the longer term it is likely that tens of millions of euros will be spoken of. Foreign shell companies have been used, for example, in investment operations, so that profits could not be taxed here. It is not sustainable that companies collect their profits from Finland but pay their taxes on tax havens. It is very important that the government intervenes now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u206	Mr President! As the President of the Tax Section, Mr Viitanen and Mr Lohikoski said earlier, the rule of effective leadership is an important reform of Finland's tax base to address aggressive tax planning. For example, the Tax Administration considered the proposal necessary and has also been presented in expert reports from the Ministry of Finance. A similar provision is already in place in Norway, Denmark, the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands. In particular, the proposal addresses tax avoidance, which makes use of companies registered abroad, whose activities are, however, effectively managed here in Finland. Mr President! As proposed by the Government, regulation will also apply to foreign investment and alternative funds as of 2023. The transitional provision is justified in view of the fact that the law will enter into force at the beginning of next year. Of course, the purpose of the proposal is not to make it difficult for companies to operate in Finland, but to strengthen the Finnish tax base. When assessing the transitional provision for funds, it would be useful to clarify the impact of effective management regulation in those countries where there are no derogations for funds, such as Denmark and Norway. It is also worth noting that mutual funds usually do not pay taxes on Finland in any case. Categorical exclusion of funds outside the scope of the law would allow tax avoidance in Finland, for example, when investing in Finnish forests and properties. Even foreign funds don't usually pay taxes here. The new proposal would not, in principle, lead to the taxation of the funds themselves, but could allow Finland to tax withdrawals if the fund was managed from Finland, thus making it difficult to use the funds in tax avoidance. This is important because, for example, a large proportion of commercial properties are owned abroad and foreign investors' ownership of Finnish forests has also increased, as is known. At the same time, it is clear that Finland cannot enter into harmful tax competition with tax havens such as Luxembourg or the Cayman Islands, which have attracted financial operators by violating the tax sovereignty of other countries. By its own example, Finland must confirm that harmful tax competition, which harms the economy and leads to an unfair outcome, is being tackled both internationally and now at national level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u207	Mr President! I would also like to thank the government for this proposal, which may be called Lex Harak. I heard that behind this law is the strong work of current Minister Harakka during the last term of government. He wanted to work for fairer taxation, and this is now one example of it, and it is also called Lex Harak. That is what has been said. Mr President! As has been said here, this proposal is one of the concrete measures that will strengthen our tax base. Companies and investors have been able to choose the country in which they are taxed, rather than the countries deciding to do so. This proposal takes a step closer to the objective of taxing businesses where they operate. Finnish taxes can be avoided, for example, by setting up a shell company in the tax oasis. The proposal moves towards modern and international practices, i.e. the future tax liability of the Communities is based on where their activities are actually carried out and not on where they are registered on paper. This is necessary, because now you can get a couple of clicks and a hundred dollars from a box company, for example. You don't have to step foot in Estonia. It is not sustainable that companies collect their profits from Finland but pay their taxes on tax havens. Now this change prevents tax avoidance by shell companies and protects the Finnish tax base. Tax revenue will increase by millions, although it is not yet possible to make an accurate assessment. Mr President! This is a very welcome and good bill, and I am glad that we have made such progress in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u208	Mr President! This is a rather special parliamentary term, which is currently taking place when we go to the implementation of this government programme. After that, there are historically handsome legislative initiatives and legislative proposals that we can make in Finland. You know, you feel like it's great to live this time when we're on a show like this. One of the biggest things in Finland is that we have too narrow a tax base. We all know the problem of taxing work — work in different forms is taxed. We constantly have to stress that we need to keep the tax rate adequate to enable us to maintain this welfare society, and we are forced to expand this tax base — we are forced to expand the tax base. What this reform is doing now is starting to tax the sector in a society that has been best able to avoid taxation in various ways and thus circumvent the responsibilities associated with maintaining this welfare society, which they will still benefit from, even though this free education system, which we were talking about a moment ago. This is also at the level of the international system on the right issues, because this is also a risk to all welfare societies, to act in tax havens, to transfer the money, to deliberately set up such box companies and holding companies in those different tax havens from Cayman Islands to Luxembourg, and so on and so forth, to operate, as it were, when actually operating in another country. The aim now is gradually to close the door, and in this respect Finland is now also working together with other countries in the Union which are striving for this same system. So nothing more than congratulations on such a government that brings such presentations here to Parliament for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u209	Mr President! It's true, Mr. Kiljunen, that if you don't pick it up yourself, you don't pick it up with a cat. On the other hand, however, I agree with your speech that this is a good government proposal. When the government makes good proposals, there is no reason not to thank them and not to praise them. It is a fact that a great many companies are systematically circumventing taxes, and especially these giant companies, which know how to do this, are practically not paying taxes at all. After all, this big problem must be regulated at EU level in the future, so that these giant companies cannot do this tax evasion in another country and in their dealings here either. If this removes it, it is excellent, or at least significantly reduces it. After all, this government proposal states that under existing national law a foreign entity cannot be subject to a general tax, so that in the event of a double residence situation there is usually no obligation for foreign entities in Finland. Then, for example, in Great Britain, Norway and Denmark, a Finnish company can be subject to a general tax if the company has an effective management position there. It is good that we take a model from the world and start implementing reforms that are fair to the Finnish taxpayer and Finnish citizens. Here I give thanks to the government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u210	Thank you. — Ladies and gentlemen, although it is late in the evening and there are still few people in the Chamber, it is important to have security intervals. If there are such cases, we will have to track them down, and that is why it is important in advance to keep those security distances, to sit in the places that have been defined beforehand for the different parties, to be able to keep the situation under control if anything happens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u211	Mr President! Very good speeches were made here. As I said at the beginning as chairman of the tax section and also as Member of Parliament Mrs Viifalna, I am very pleased that legislation of this kind can now be adopted here. I have been following the debate in Finland for a long time and I have seen just the challenge that where we have something to gain in the future in terms of taxation is precisely what was referred to here: that we are expanding the tax base, supporting those tax breaks and preventing tax evasion in all respects, even tax evasion and such phenomena, which unfortunately exist. That is the basis of justice, and if we really do need funding, for example, for the important increase in the age of compulsory education which has been discussed here for a long time, then these are the right means of financing these important reforms. President! It should also be noted that it is also a good thing that this measure is not the only one that, for example, allows us to combat the features of the informal economy. After all, a large programme to combat the shadow economy was recently adopted during this period of government, which also includes a number of fiscal measures. I am, however, pressing for more concrete implementation of these and other reforms. Finally, as Mrs Kiljunen quite rightly said, this is a bit like what one might say, Lex Harakka, which is also an indication of the possibility for parliamentarians to make a difference. After all, this proposal was in the SDP's tax programmes, and Mrs Harakka, who was also a key person in drawing up this programme, took the initiative at the end of the last period, a parliamentary initiative. At that time, the people of the tax division myself and people from many other parties, including the people of this bill, signed. Therefore, very quickly, during this term of government, we are at this point that Parliament is already adopting this. In that regard, with good pleasure, I have been watching this progressive step.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u212	Mr President! All right, let's thank the government. It is very good that we want to extend the tax base in a fair way. It is also the goal of the Finns of Peru. In this context, however, I cannot fail to point out what we read again yesterday in the press about this tax base, that in Finland the combined net assets of the nine major trade unions had increased significantly to EUR 2.6 billion, and, as we know, the investment income of these unions is tax-free. The current tax system, which has now been well criticised and tried to correct, has actually created tax haven conditions for these large foundations,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u217	Mr President! In fact, I have just mentioned that there have been a number of pending cases to fill the tax base, and one is on the table in this regard. We are currently working on a working group that is considering, in accordance with the government programme, whether we could put, for example, large foreign investors, which in the same way would also apply to all the like, here in Finland, a kind of withholding tax that could make hundreds of millions of dollars at best for our joint use. This is a working group set up by Matti Vanhanen, who will complete its work, if I remember correctly, on the spring side of next year, and I hope that it will also lead to the next step, namely that we will find a model for dealing with this particular issue. We have often spoken about this as the SDP, for example, and in most cases we have been accused of being terrible, while you are taxed. But we are, after all, precisely bridging the tax base and precisely safeguarding the profits of Finnish taxpayers. The Finnish taxpayer belongs to what belongs to the Finnish taxpayer, and it is not right that foreign investment companies, for example, avoid paying taxes on the profits of their own profits here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u218	I would ask you to focus on the subject at hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u219	Mr President! It is good that Mr Viitanen, President of the Tax Section, draws attention to the tax avoidance of these foreign companies. Here you were cautiously approaching this concern expressed by Mr Purra that there are also large foundations and operators in Finland who avoid paying taxes. In that sense, it is fair that this road is going to the end. The True Finns will be left to watch how the government will correct these speculations,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u222	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 34/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u223	Mr President! This is the kind of thing that a subsidiary could sort of eliminate its final losses in a Finnish parent company, and this is because this proposal ensures that corporate taxation here in Finland is in line with EU law. In other words, the Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against Finland because it has been held that this provision is incompatible with the tax deductibility of the Union's group grants, and the Commission considers that Finland should allow the final losses of a foreign company to be reduced in the taxation of the Finnish parent company. That is the whole question here. As I said, this aid legislation is a bit of a necessity for us to start. As such, the group allowance law as such is not the subject of this infringement procedure, this detail is, and to correct it, so that we can then comply with international law, we will do this separate law in this context. This has been done in such a logic that, in this situation, it has been primarily intended to safeguard our tax base, and that is why, when drafting the law, when considering its different solutions, special attention has been paid to the fact that there are different types of restrictions here, and the purpose of these restrictions is to safeguard the Finnish tax base. Then about the expert hearings that we are going through very widely in this report: if you are reading this text, this is a very legal, legal, tax-law text, then this responds mainly to the criticism of those experts who have considered that there are too many restrictions. In a way, however, as a committee, we unanimously believe that these restrictions are necessary precisely because this is an explicit guarantee that as much as possible of those taxes will continue to be collected here for us. For example, we are going through the fact that some people would have liked to have been able to reduce this tax more, but in practice we are saying here that the domestic group subsidy does not allow, for example, the tax year to be exceeded, and in this respect this criticism is, in any case, a little far-fetched. This criticism refers, among other things, to whether these losses could be reduced,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u224	Mr President! This is a little related to the last one. But here we go to the most risky waters. Of course, this is the background to the decisions of the European Court of Justice, which are now being put into Finnish law, and it is great that Mr Viitanen highlighted these limitations that exist here. After all, this is about multinational companies, the fact that a multinational company can do tax planning on a large scale. Transfer pricing is one form of transfer of profits from one country to another. The previous point in which we also dealt with this tax avoidance was a matter of this kind. This is because when a wide range of companies have a large number of subsidiaries, when subsidiaries suffer losses in another country, especially in a situation where the company has gone bankrupt in another country, they cannot be deducted in taxation for its subsidiary and transferred to the profit of the group, to the profit of the group's parent company — if it is a Finnish company located in Finland, then to its profit. This is, however, a problem, if it is without restrictions, which also offers opportunities for tax evasion, because many companies can buy companies in a loss cycle in another country and transfer its taxation, its losses, then here to Finland, which is a higher-taxable country, and as far as tax evasion of this kind is concerned, I understand that these restrictions have been made here and are very important. In that sense, this is a sensible line, but now we see what this international involvement with multinationals is in a situation where tax systems vary from one country to another. The big problem here is that perhaps at no time will we be able to achieve harmonisation of all taxation, but, above all, with regard to capital movements, this common tax base, common tax practices, should try to develop further, and that is where the European Union has a crucial role to play.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u225	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 35/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u226	Mr President! In short, the issue is that the state will guarantee corona vaccines at the time when they start to enter the market, hopefully as soon as possible. This has been widely supported. The question here is, therefore, that the pharmaceutical accident insurance company has not received reinsurance on the market and, as a result, this State guarantee will ensure that this insurance is obtained. So this is what this is all about. In our own report, we in the committee emphasise, among other things, that it is good to draw attention to the level of this guarantee fee in itself, so that it can then subsequently lead to a transition to market-based reinsurance as soon as it is possible and available. In this way, perhaps we will also look to the future in the development of this system. This report is also unanimous and widely supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u227	Mr President! This is, in principle, a good government proposal. It is important to increase the reliability of the vaccine in the case of such a fast-track vaccine and, of course, the legislation requires that they be insured if the vaccine causes health damage. In Finland, personal injury caused by medicines and vaccines is compensated for from the pharmaceutical accident insurance provided by the Finnish Mutual Pharmaceutical Insurance Company. This has been very much used to compensate, for example, for the damage caused by the 2009 Pandemrix vaccine, i.e. for these narcolepsy payments. It was replaced up to EUR 30 million, and since this was not enough, the State has subsequently increased these compensations further. Of course, the fact that in these insurance claims the actual coverage of the compensation to the injured person is generally under-estimated is striking. In my own family, there is a family of acquaintances where the child eventually received this narcolepsy. However, it took them a very long time to get even at any level of compensation, and the end result was that the compensation was very modest in relation to the disadvantage caused by the long loss of the young person’s ability to study or to go to work and many others. This kind of suffering for the rest of your life is, of course, very unfortunate, but at a time when something like this happens, the state should make up for it, yes, in accordance with the real disadvantages. In that sense, I would like to see a future review of what the correct amount of compensation is. This is about the fact that the market does not get this reinsurance, and the State has to take responsibility for it. One of the reasons why they do not receive it is that from the reinsurer’s point of view, the main problem is the unknown risk associated with covid vaccine. This, even in the government's proposal, shows that research into the development of vaccines was in the process of being developed and are still at this stage when these decisions are taken, and it is therefore important for the State to contribute to compensating for these potential harms. This also reflects the suspicion that exists among some and, on the other hand, it is up to the government to dispel these suspicions by means of such a compensation procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u228	Mr President! I am actually glad that we are finally at this point that we have some light at the end of the tunnel with regard to this corona pandemic. Ten months have been taught to live with this scourge in Finland too, and much of it has, of course, brought us practical problems, but also tragic cases, sicknesses along the way. Finally, next year the vaccine will be given and prepared in the form of these insurance matters. Personally, at least I want to trust that this vaccine that comes is something that we can use to dam the spread of this pandemic and which can bring us this so-called herd shelter. Although this period of development in this vaccine has been short, I trust that these huge drug giants of ours have used all the expertise we have globally in this world, and the best experts have done this vaccine. That is why I think it is extremely important to send out a message from us in this Chamber that this vaccine, when it comes to taking your own takeover, should be taken. It is a matter for all of us, and that is why we should take this vaccine. And if and if there were any problems with this vaccine and its possible side effects, then we also have insurance and the government is involved. In other words, it is extremely important that we are already in this situation, that we finally get ahead of ourselves and that we also get to a more normal place in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u229	Mr President! It is good to agree with these previous speeches and, in particular, with the proposal made by Mr Viitanen, President of the Tax Section. It is a great thing that this vaccine is being mobilised precisely through this state guarantee and that insurance will be included in it and we will be able to get there from now on. Indeed, it is very important that when we get this vaccine in motion, the things in it can then be arranged with the insurance companies later on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u230	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 14/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u231	Mr President! We in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry have had this proposal for the Animal Health Act and related legislation before us this autumn, and in practice it updates the existing legislation. Animal diseases should not be underestimated, because we have the great strength in the production of Finnish clean food that we have managed to control animal diseases. We have also managed to keep them under control, even though we do not use antibiotics as much as we do globally and in Europe, for example. This legislation also wants to prepare for future threats, and that is, of course, the key issue. After all, during this corona pandemic, there were serious situations in Denmark, where the corona, the covid virus, was caught in minks and the whole production was smoothed out. This is the kind of situation that we in Finland never want to get into. That is why we must have legislation in place in this regard, that if such things were to happen, such as animal diseases of this kind, we would be able to operate in a restricted area, there would be rules of play for this purpose, and, in this respect, among other things, we will have these areas of restriction marked in future legislation. Mr. Speaker! Over and above animal diseases: Just such an everyday animal disease, which is a risk to us, is swine fever, and everything must be done to prevent it. The plague that is transmitted through wild boars is what we need to tackle. That is what we will be able to tackle by hunting, by removing from us a boar that does not belong in our nature as an animal in practice. We have to be able to remove them if we have them. But we, all consumers, are also able to influence how we behave when we come from abroad, whether we are importing wild boar-related products, whether we are posing animal disease risks, and we must be able to minimise all these. In Finland, too, we should act more strongly to prevent food from being imported from countries where animal diseases, such as swine fever, occur. This legislation is to be welcomed. It also came from us in committee unanimously in this Chamber, and we should take it through.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u232	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 27/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u233	Mr President! The proposal proposes a law on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors. The law would complement the EU regulation. The law would repeal the law on the marketing and use of explosives precursors. The new law is broadly in line with the law in force, but contains certain clarifications required by the Regulation. In addition, the proposal proposes to add provisions on the procedure for checking the background of the applicant for the authorisation of starting materials to the law on the retention and disclosure of criminal records between Finland and other EU Member States and the Criminal Records Act. Explosive precursors are chemical substances that can be used for legitimate purposes, including in agriculture. The same substances can also be used for the manufacture of self-made explosives, and such explosives have been used in numerous terrorist attacks in Europe. Public access to, import, possession and use of certain explosives precursors is currently restricted by the 2013 Council and Parliament Decree. The Regulation also lays down rules for reporting suspicious transactions in order to prevent the illicit manufacture of explosives. The additional national provisions entered into force in 2014. This previous EU Regulation will be replaced by a new Council and Parliament Regulation. The Government's proposal proposes to adopt the additional national provisions required by the Regulation on starting materials, which are intended to enter into force on 1 February 2021, when the Regulation on starting materials will apply. Mr President! Restrictions and controls on explosives precursors have differed from one Member State to another and, according to the Commission, this has created barriers to intra-Union trade. Furthermore, the Commission considers that the existing restrictions and controls have not ensured an adequate level of public safety, since they have not properly prevented criminals from acquiring explosives precursors. The purpose of the new regulation is to respond to these shortcomings. The background is the threat posed by terrorism and other serious criminal activities. According to the assessment made in the Committee's expert consultation, it would have been possible to prevent at least some of the terrorist attacks in recent years if the means provided for by the regulation now in force had already been in place. Even the provisions of the new Regulation do not apply to the professional use of the substances or mixtures referred to therein. This change only means that legal persons also need authorisation for starting materials that they do not need in their usual business, business or professional activities. According to the Regulation on starting materials, banned or authorised substances are nitric acid, hydrogen peroxide, sulphuric acid and nitromethane at certain concentrations. For the sake of clarity, the committee notes that the regulation is a right directly applicable in the Member States and cannot be derogated from by national regulation. The Committee notes that the addition of sulphuric acid, which is quite commonly used as a new substance, may, at least in the initial stages, increase the number of applications for authorisation in Finland. According to the survey, the authorisation system has worked well and has reduced the demand for explosives precursors among ordinary citizens. Approximately 150 applications for authorisation of starting materials have been processed annually, of which only individual applications have been rejected. The authorisation system is mainly proposed for preservation as it stands. However, the new regulation will introduce changes to the conditions for granting. For example, the licensing authority will have to take into account the applicant’s plans for the storage of starting materials in order to ensure that the starting material is stored safely. The authority shall also verify, in the context of an examination of the applicant’s background, whether there have been previous criminal convictions in the EU. Therefore, amendments to criminal record legislation are also proposed. Mr President! On the basis of the report it has received, the Committee notes that the procurement of precursors in Europe has been partly directed on the web by means of prohibition and licensing systems. Training and information should therefore be targeted particularly at online marketplaces, as it is estimated that unauthorised purchases will increasingly move there. There is an explicit provision in the Regulation on starting materials that a Member State must ensure that it has national inspection authorities for the purpose of checking and monitoring the correct application of certain articles of the Regulation. In Finland, the authorities, the police, Customs and the Finnish Safety and Chemicals Agency are already monitoring compliance with the previous regulation. However, the obligations are expanding somewhat. In future, ordinary citizens will also be obliged to report significant disappearances and thefts of precursors. This is also expected to increase the activity and number of notifications of obliged entities. Data on departure permits shall be entered in the register of the licensing authority of the Police Government, which is not, however, a register allowing the police to examine the data. Applications for permits are handled manually and e-services are not possible. According to the report submitted to the committee, the information on the authorisation of starting materials for such an electronic service register will not be available earlier than 2024. In the past, the Administrative Committee has on several occasions paid serious attention to the delay in the electronic weapons information system. In this context too, the Committee stresses the importance of usable and up-to-date register data for the smooth practical work of the authorities. Mr President! The Administrative Committee considers this proposal necessary and appropriate. The changes to the current situation are rather minor. The committee supports the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal as unchanged.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u234	Thank you for the introduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u235	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Purra, for a good presentation. Very important legislation when considering our safety in Finland, but more generally in Europe. Times have changed. I myself am the son of a miner, and I remember how dynamite or other things were preserved at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u238	Mr President! I am no fan or fan of regulation, but when we talk about this type of security, we must have this controlled legislation. We must remember too well what happened in our beloved neighbouring country, Norway, in our Nordic partner country in 2012, when a bomb from fertilizers caused a great deal of damage to the perpetrator of the terrorist act. Of course, there are more of these similar companies and bomb-building cases around the world, and that is why we need legislation to address them, to deal with such substances, which can be self-made bombs, explosives. That is why this legislation, which is now coming to us in national law, is necessary. Just as Mr Pirttilahti said, so do I remember these stories from my own home, how the dynamite sticks in the field have been found there on top of the fireplace’s bank and have been used as necessary. Every host has practically been a bet in those days and blew up when there was a need. But time has passed, and the risk of abuse is obvious, and that is also why, when technology develops and instructions for all such arbitrage are readily available, this legislation is needed. Mr. Speaker! It is good that, in any case, attention has been paid to this licensing system. Those professionals who need these explosives will continue to make it easy for them to acquire them, that is, there will be no excessive red tape for those who need explosives for a professional purpose. Similarly, with regard to agriculture, where fertilisers are needed, they will continue to be able to be ordered equally smoothly. Attention has also been paid to this issue and this has been prepared together with the actors involved. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u239	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. On the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the report UaVM 6/2020 vp, it is now decided on a position on the report. The debate starts with a presentation by Mr Niiko, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There is no round of group talks. Other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u240	Mr President! In accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act, the Government has provided Parliament with a report on Finland's continued participation in the OIR mission in Iraq with approximately 80 soldiers from 1 January to 31 December 2021. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has consulted experts and adopted a report on this subject. The Committee on Defence also issued an opinion to the committee. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the reporting procedure to be justified, given that the operation does not have a clear UN mandate and is a high-risk operation. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, External Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Security and Defence Policy examined the situation in Iraq at length when discussing the continuation of the operation. The political situation is unstable and the security situation is fragile. Fathers still have supporters and sleep cells in Iraq. Isis is still capable of carrying out attacks and has strengthened its operations online. The difficult situation in Iraq in the US/Iran conflict has also been highlighted this year. There has been an increase in the number of attacks by Shiiamilitians in Iran. Furthermore, although the security situation has generally been better in the autonomous Kurdish region of Iraq, there have also been individual attacks on the OIR bases. The security situation in the region is also undermined by the attacks by the Kurdistan Workers' Party against the PKK in northern Iraq. The expert consultation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs clearly showed that Iraq needs comprehensive and long-term assistance to support society, to normalise the security situation and for the reconstruction project. The committee considers the assessment to be correct, but it also calls for Iraq's own responsibility. Even massive support for international cooperation will be ineffective if Iraq itself does not take the biggest role in the country's development in a way that takes account of all social groups on an equal footing. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs went through the various ways in which Finland is involved in supporting Iraq in the expert consultation. However, the focus of the OR mission was, of course, as the report also shows, that the Finnish forces have trained some 5,000 soldiers from the Peshmerga and Iraqi security forces. The Finnish Training Department has received good feedback from its work. The committee drew attention to the fact that the deterioration of the security situation in Iraq also affects the operating conditions of the ORO. It also constitutes a significant threat to the security of the Finnish population, according to the committee's assessment. The committee therefore took a careful look at the issue of the adequacy of the self-protection of the Finnish population. The committee was briefed by experts on the means by which self-protection arrangements have been improved. The committee considers the measures taken to be necessary. The committee also stresses that the Defence Forces must constantly update their assessment of the adequacy of self-protection in the light of possible changes in circumstances. Mr President! Finally, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it unanimously justified that Finland should continue to participate in the ORI operation. By participating in the mission, Finland supports the fight against international terrorism, including ISIS. Participation is an important part of Finland’s comprehensive support for Iraq. However, the conditions for participation must be constantly assessed and rapid changes in the operating environment should be anticipated. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u241	Thank you for the introduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u242	Mr President! As Mr Niikko has just said very well, the continuation of Finland's participation in the ORI operation until the end of next year is justified. Insecurity and insecurity have increased both in Europe and in the world. Peacekeeping and crisis management have been an important part of Finland’s foreign and security policy for over six decades. However, Finland alone will not solve the crises; we need larger alliances. Peace-keeping contributes to the stabilisation of conflict countries and contributes to the prevention of terrorism and the root causes of migration. A comprehensive approach to developing the rule of law, governance and stability in Iraq will create the conditions for the ideologies of ISIS not to be able to take root. Finland’s participation in international operations improves our national defence capability and improves our cooperation capacity. With our participation, we will also highlight Finland's active role in the EU and, at the same time, strengthen our country's bilateral relations with Iraq. By shouldering our responsibilities in promoting global security, we do where Finland is at its best: we negotiate, anticipate and bring patience.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u243	Mr President! This training operation launched in Iraq, which was launched then in 2015, does not directly have a UN mandate, and the Government has therefore considered it necessary to report specifically to Parliament. Then the Committee on Foreign Affairs has gone through it with exceptional care and considered both the nature and the objectives of this operation and came to a unanimous decision that this would have its own follow-up. As Mr Niikko has said here, this issue of self-protection is certainly something that needs to be addressed with greater care and certain safeguards. The second point that was also made clear here is that this impact assessment should be more clearly highlighted, which is the effectiveness of this training mission in the region itself. This is important. Perhaps, however, there is a good reason in this context to briefly look at the situation from which this has been achieved, what this overall process is. Of course, it all started in 2003 when this coalition of willing, a coalition led by the United States and Britain, replaced Saddam Hussein, which then ended up in a long-term bloody civil war which triggered in 2011 that Isis founded this caliphate that terrorized the population for three years. Then 2014 was given birth to this international coalition, and now the situation in Iraq has calmed down in such a way that itself The caliphate of Isis has fallen, even though there are still traces of it. Now we're in the middle of a humanitarian crisis like this. There are also more than one million internally displaced persons, which means that the country is in very serious difficulties. It is important that stability is created there, and in that sense these training missions aim to support the security authorities, the security forces, and of course the safety of the Kurdish regions has been at the Finnish focus. This is important in that this balance can be found, but of course we have a major role to play in the reconstruction of Iraqi society other than that of security. Unfortunately, Iraq will remain on the world community's agenda for a long time, but this single operation in this respect has now been supported unanimously, at least on the part of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u244	Mr President! On this crisis management operation in Iraq, where Finland has been involved for several years now: Just as Mr Kiljunen described this, these problems have, in a way, already started in that country days ago, but in recent years this terrorist threat, which has been there, has not changed radically for the better. Finland has also been involved in the Western coalition in stabilising the situation in Iraq, and for Finland this task is precisely a training mission. We are there to train the local peshmerga forces and to equip them to fight against the ISIS, the terrorist groups. The results of this training have also been good, as we have heard in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, in consultation with experts. After all, the international situation is difficult at the moment because the United States is pulling its troops out of these crisis management tasks. This is also the case with Iraq. We in Finland also want to keep this 80 soldiers in the country for the next year to train these troops. And why should Finland not be involved: we have been a strong player in crisis management for several decades despite our size. In fact, everything that we have is based on general military duty, reserve capacity, know-how that can also be used from the civilian side for crisis management tasks can also be used in an excellent way for this type of operation, and I believe that our unique system must be adhered to. Mr. Speaker! Self-protection is absolutely central to the fact that our soldiers who are in this training operation, too, where there are major risks, have the best tools available to them to minimise their risk in such operations. This has been seen as a key point every time an original decision has been taken and subsequently further decisions have been taken to participate in this OR operation, and it has always been sought to ensure from experts that Finnish soldiers have the best equipment, self-protection and risks in this type of operation as low as possible. This has also been done, and there have been no huge risks in this regard. In this report, too, we consider it important that this also brings benefits to us in our national defence capacity, and it is unquestionably clear that these guys who are involved in this type of operation will also be able to bring their experience to our national defence. They are tough places there, they see tough things there, and these will certainly also be of benefit to us in terms of our national defence capacity, so this is also a key issue for consideration in this respect. Mr. Speaker! We opened the Finnish Embassy in Baghdad, and I think this is an important issue, not only because of the fact that, of course, relations between countries have been opened in a different way, but also because it contributes to the link to this operation and to the reconstruction projects of the new country, to which we are able to bring our own links through our own embassy. These relate, among other things, to water supply. In Iraq, too, there is its own Ministry of Water Resources. In these countries, where access to clean water is not taken for granted, we have technologies and aids from Finland for this type of product, and this can also be good exports for our companies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u245	Mr President! In other words, the training operation of the Iraqi crisis management forces (OIR) is now under discussion. The security situation in the region is so weak that the risks of some kind of attack are, of course, high. What has spoken of us as members of the Committee on Defence is the personal protection of the men we have sent there. I believe that efforts have now been made to take care of it and improve it. They have added such concrete barriers. In my opinion, these risks have been minimised, and this is all right. It is important for the future development of Iraq that our 80 men continue there for next year. Here's a short one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u246	Mr President! I would like to make two points quickly. The second is the return agreement with Iraq. It is regrettable that the issue of the return agreement with Iraq has not progressed. At least the assembly has encouraged the government to take steps to promote this both in bilateral negotiations and in the EU. The second point to raise is NATO. As we all know, NATO is an important factor in the management of the crisis in Iraq, and I cannot help mentioning that, as a member of NATO, Finland's influence in global crisis management is considerably greater than it is at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u247	Mr President! I, too, would like to add a little bit, to continue as Mr Pelkonen referred to the importance of NATO and NATO in that operation in Iraq: true. Another important measure that must of course be registered here is the United States, and what partly affected our judgment is also the decisions of the US Government in September that they will reduce their participation in Iraq from more than 5000 soldiers to between 2000 and 3000 — an exact figure is not known at this stage, but, in principle, a reduction. It is precisely the United States that criticises the Iraqi regime for failing to carry out these security tasks properly. In this situation, it might have been the wrong signal if Finland too had announced that it would withdraw from this training operation altogether, but we know that the country is in a vulnerable situation. In this respect, we wanted to emphasise that the continuity, the long-term nature of this training programme, which has in fact become increasingly advisory services from education, is important and necessary, and this participation in Finland will be maintained until the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u248	The chairman of the committee, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u249	Mr President! At this stage, it is still worth pointing out the fact that some of these military operations are, of course, criticising the fact that Finnish soldiers are being sent to an area from which they may even have to return home in a zinc coffin, but this is a very important task. This is a global project, a project led by the United States, in which a joint decision has been taken to defeat the entire Isis caliphate. According to the UN estimate, there are still about 10,000 fighters in the region waiting for the moment to do these evil deeds and spread it all the way to Europe. As a result, it is up to the OIR mission to defeat Isis and then also to train these Iraqis themselves to take responsibility for building their country for the better. This way of being involved by Finns is that we are now training trainers to train their own troops. After all, it has started from the fact that the Finns have been training some 5,000 Peshmerga troops to work for their own country and also for Iraq's own defence. This is the way Finland supports the reduction of international terrorism. It must also be pointed out that it is true that when Iraq has had months of such political turmoil, then this can also create such a development that confidence There is no such thing as Iraq's own ability to handle matters. This is also reflected in the fact that the United States has announced that it will reduce its troops, as Mr Kiljunen mentioned, from 5,000 to around 3,000 or 2000 soldiers. This, of course, also raises concerns in Finland. If the leader state of the force starts to withdraw from the area, then Finland's ability to act must also be reviewed, whether and to what extent it will be able to operate there. With these words I would like to thank the committee and the members of the committee for having raised very good views in connection with this debate in committee and for having now brought it to Parliament in this form. It is good to move on from this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u250	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 5/2020 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u251	Mr President! In discussing the report by the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe for 2019, the Committee on Foreign Affairs drew particular attention to three main points. The committee considered it important that a solution was finally found to the question of Russia's return to the work of the General Assembly during the reporting year. It is good that Russia remains within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. Finland played a key role in finding a solution through the Presidency of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers. In other respects, the participation of the Finnish delegation has also been active. Members have been involved in monitoring and reporting tasks, for example, and have received several positions of trust in various committees. Thank you very much for this activity and good work, especially for President Kimmo Kiljunen and the whole delegation. Mr President! Another key issue that the Committee on Foreign Affairs drew attention to when dealing with the report was the concern about the state of democracy in Europe. According to a report received by the committee, the Council of Europe's system of human rights and the rule of law is being openly challenged. The committee is concerned about this and stresses the role of the Council of Europe as a guardian of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Mr President! As a final point, I would like to raise the question of the working conditions of the General Assembly. The committee pointed out that it was also important to secure the scope for action of the General Assembly during the covid-19 pandemic. In this context, the committee noted that there was a great deal of need for an international political debate at all. This debate should be increased here in Parliament, and this was also the committee's attention. The committee has no comments on the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u252	Mr President! Last year was a significant year for the Council of Europe in many respects. The Council of Europe turned round 70 years, and last year was also a celebration year for Finland’s membership of the organization, when 30 years of membership were completed. Mr Niikko has already mentioned this issue, that is to say, in his capacity as President of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers in the first half of last year, Finland was able to contribute to finding a solution to Russia's return to the work of the General Assembly, and this was a very important and important step forward. The state of democracy in Europe has indeed given rise to great concern, and therefore the role of the Council of Europe as a guardian of democracy, the rule of law and human rights has become more and more important. As the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs well states, there is a particular need for the work of the Council of Europe and its General Committee in the current international political situation. For my part, I would also like to thank the members of the Finnish delegation for their excellent work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-08-ps-160.u253	Mr President! I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niikko, for this introductory speech, and I would also like to thank him for his words — both as Chairman of the Finnish delegation to the Council of Europe and as Vice-President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We see the remarkable work that the Council of Europe is doing on that scale. As Mr Pelkonen referred to here — and Mr Niikko also referred to it — the Council of Europe celebrated the anniversary last year, and that anniversary was highlighted by Finland’s fact that we had an exceptionally high profile in the work of the Council of Europe. That profile came not only from the fact that we were chairman of the Committee of Ministers, but also from the fact that the President of the Republic: So is our foreign minister. Soini appeared to the General Assembly, but that both this presence of Finland here at the General Assembly level and then the so-called meeting of the Helsinki Ministerial Committee in May led to the major solutions whose fruit we are enjoying in a positive way in the Council of Europe. After 2014, when the sanctions policy came into effect, the crisis took place in the sense that the mandates of the Russian Parliamentary Assembly delegation were not accepted and that Russia was withdrawing from the whole organisation. As a result of a negotiated solution genuinely negotiated by Finland, a solution was reached whereby the Russian credentials were returned and the Russian delegation began to participate fully in the work of the Council of Europe since the summer, and the situation that Russia had actually moved away from the organisation as a whole, including from the intergovernmental side, was avoided. This was a high-profile operation that gave Finland a lot of points. Now that the organisation has been slightly divided because of the emergence of opposition there, also at that general assembly and also at the level of the Committee of Ministers, which continues to question Russia's membership of that organisation, the question has arisen as to the reasons on which we supported it. I now want to open it up in the open before Parliament to the extent that it was not so much a question of the Russian State being involved in the work of the Council of Europe, but, above all, of the Russian State's commitment to the European Convention on Human Rights. And this commitment means that what the Council of Europe is doing is no longer just intergovernmental or interparliamentary action, but also at civil society level. 23% of cases before the European Court of Human Rights come from Russia. In other words, Russian citizens, non-governmental organisations are making human rights complaints in connection with various violations within Russian society. They have a window open in such a way that they are able to demand that the Russian regime follow the human rights standards and conventions it has committed itself to by participating in the Council of Europe. So 23% of all these complaints come from Russia, which is 13,000 complaints. We see that scale: 13,000 complaints. Russia is a large country, and that is why there are a lot of them, in relative terms, so that Russia is only the 8th largest complaining country if it does. I am not going to list the other countries, but that is the proportionality that we are seeing here. What was essential was that by enabling Russian parliamentarians to participate in this dialogue, we also offer Russian civil society the opportunity to build on these international human rights treaties. And we received a great deal of feedback and thanks from the Russian non-governmental organisations, human rights organisations, who stressed that we made the right decision on this issue, and that has been the big background here, regardless of the contradiction there has been. It is worth remembering that there is also such a monitoring system in the Council of Europe. Our former President, Tarja Halonen, has once been an initiative in this monitoring system, where these obligations and commitments of members are systematically monitored by the rapporteurs. In particular, for these key new Member States — or countries such as Poland, which is now subject to monitoring — a great deal of effort is being made to monitor human rights violations, compromise the rule of law or major democratic shortcomings. And I myself know, when I was rapporteur for Armenia, that we are being taken very seriously in Armenia, in that country itself, when we visit that country — something which has not yet happened properly at this stage because of this interest rate and otherwise. But previous rapporteurs have always met with representatives of the state as the head of the republic, the government and, of course, the leaders, the opposition, all political actors and non-governmental organisations. They play a very important role in relation to the development of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in that country. This regular monitoring is also done in Russia. This monitoring has started again with Russia’s membership. Last year, the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe also included the fact that, in the autumn, we held in Rovaniemi, thanks also to the support of Parliament, a major seminar on the external relations of the Council of Europe's political committee, specifically intended to explore the Arctic region, the work of the Arctic Council. The Arctic Council is not yet an observer in the Council of Europe. And now it was the idea that the Arctic Council could also be activated in this way and that relations with the Council of Europe should be built up. And we took clear steps forward in this cooperation between the Arctic Council and the Council of Europe, which, in its own way, also gives thanks to the activeness of the Finnish delegation, because in this way we wanted to host this issue. So the sum summarum, I think it is valuable that we are involved in the work of the Council of Europe. I also think it is valuable that we have this opportunity in Parliament, even once a year, to go through the work that we parliamentarians are also doing over this Chamber. In fact, the Council of Europe as a body was a bit of a surprise to me when I am a new player within the framework of the Council of Europe — I have previously worked in the framework of the OSCE in particular. It is practically another Parliament. In practice, it is another Parliament, with its committees and activities, with its daily contacts with Strasbourg in this context, and it is often not reflected in this parliamentary work in terms of how hard we work, the whole Finnish delegation is working, on this side. - Thank you.
