ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Culture must deliver an opinion. Up to 60 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. After the Minister's presentation, there will be a 45-minute debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u2	Mr President! The Government proposes to amend the Act on Electronic Communications Services and related laws. The background has changed in terms of EU regulation, the new EU Telecommunications Directive and the amendment of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. At the same time, some very important national changes to the regulation of electronic communications would also be made. In line with the directives, the laws would mainly enter into force on 21 December this year. It is an extensive package, and I would venture to say a huge package that has implications for the use of citizens' communications services and hence for everyday life. The availability and accessibility, functionality, reliability and security of communications services are essential to the functioning of society as a whole, as demonstrated by the ongoing corona crisis. The situation in Finland has been good, for example, in terms of access to services and low prices. Our networks are the most advanced in the world, especially on the mobile side. The proposed amendments aim to ensure that the situation continues to be excellent, preferably even better than it is today. The legislation must remain rigorous in its development. Mr President! The proposal is related to the strategic entity of the Government Programme, Violent Finland. In accordance with the Government Programme, the objective is to ensure effective communication and communication and a high level of consumer protection. The presentation serves these goals in many ways. The role of users of communication services would be clearly improved. This role would be improved, inter alia, by reducing the maximum duration of fixed-term mobile telephone subscription contracts from the current 24 months to 12 months. The telecommunications company should also provide a quick and easy-to-use way of checking the end of the telephone line. The changes would make it easier to change the interface. Under the proposed law, the Government decree also aims to increase the broadband universal service rate to 5 megabits. The special pricing of national subscriber numbers, i.e. company numbers, would also be waived. This would mean the removal of the most expensive company numbers and the transition to normal pricing. Change is good for anyone who needs phone communication. At present, some of the numbers in use are considerably expensive for callers, up to 20 cents a minute. The accessibility of services would also be improved and the media services would become more accessible. The voice and subtitling obligations of television operators would also extend partly to subscribers. In addition, an obligation relating to the quality of subtitles would be imposed on operators who are obliged to vote and subtitle, which requires that the subtitles of Finnish and Swedish-speaking programmes must be sufficiently clear and understandable for the user. The additions are particularly important for people with visual and hearing impairment. There would also be other changes to the regulation of audiovisual media services, mainly those required by the Directive. Effective communication also depends on the rapid construction of networks and investments in new networks. The proposal would update network licensing practices and would allow, for example, the extension of the network licences granted. The proposal would also facilitate the construction of 5G networks and the positioning of base stations. The changes would ensure investment by companies and would contribute to ensuring that Finland remains at the forefront of network development. Telecommunications companies should in future notify the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency of the decommissioning or replacement of their old networks of copper connections six months before the planned removal. The ongoing 5G development will also bring enormous new innovations. They can be promoted through licensing practices. Mobile networks in a restricted area have already been allocated frequencies which, following the change proposed, could make it easier to operate a small number of telecommunications services rather than a network licence issued by the Government under a radio licence issued by the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency. Mr President! However, there is no way that connections and services can function without an important foundation, trust. Citizens and businesses must be able to trust that information security is in place, and the proposal would strengthen security and trust. The use of a communication network device which could jeopardise national security would be prohibited in communications networks. Regulation would apply to critical parts of the network, i.e. activities and measures that are essential for steering and managing the network and its traffic. This regulation is based on the implementation of the 5G safety range of EU instruments completed in January 2020. Finland was actively promoting a common set of means during its Presidency. Network security would also be followed in the future by a new Network Security Advisory Board. The Advisory Board would represent the main authorities from different administrative sectors and the telecommunications sector. The Advisory Board would address wide-ranging issues related to the security of communications networks and, if necessary, make recommendations to improve network security. Finally, citizens must also be able to rely on the fact that information on the various incidents is accessible to all. Thus, in addition to the current information on risks arising from television and radio broadcasts, application-based information on hazards would be added to the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u3	Now I ask those representatives who want to use the reply to the question, to stand up and press the V button from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u4	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for bringing this law — electronic communications up to date — into Parliament. This was actually adopted in June and we in the Committee on Transport and Communications have already started to deal with this issue. At legislative level, the high level of safety of networks as network technologies develop is very important. Society is increasingly dependent on online technology and it must be defined that using the device does not endanger national security or defence. Finland has a lot of technological know-how that we need to use to an increasing extent, so that we can also benefit from the fruits it produces. In the future, Finland should also strive to be one of the leading countries in the data world.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u5	Madam President! The government proposal is a broad package, as the Minister mentioned. There are almost five and a half hundred pages of material here, and this has also been discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Of course, with interest we expect this preparatory phase to be able to address precisely these security-related issues. We all certainly want us to have fast connections to these networks in the future, but it must not jeopardise safety in terms of information or health either. Of course, on these health safety issues, it would be good if Finland were to take the initiative, for example, to carry out some further studies on these thermal and radiation hazards, which have already occurred to some extent in the case of 3G and 4G technologies. We also have people in a high-risk group in Finland who are exposed to radiation and cannot live in a society surrounded by radiation. According to the information I have received, there are a number of people living in Tampere who suffer from these radiation damage. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u6	Madam President! This is a really big reading package, that is what we in the Committee on Transport and Communications have noticed, and there would be a lot of questions about it, but let us start with safety. Here is a very good prevention of access to information, which is very important when it comes to child pornography or gross fraud or terrorism or cybercrime — it Article 185 deals with it. I know the spirit of the law and I know that it is not misused, but when there is talk of imprisonment, two years and more, there is no mention of certain crimes. It would probably be worth considering now, the Minister, whether we should list certain crimes when legislation is supposed to be precise. It can't be just this sort of specific number in it. But here is a lot of good, cyber issues have been taken into account here and also many other things that are great for security. We could talk about this for an hour, but let's give it a minute. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u7	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for that introduction. I myself listened with interest to what the minister put at the top of that big, wide-ranging package of laws. In my opinion, it is important that Finland continues to be a pioneer in communications policy, a pioneer country, because the need for active and secure networks will increase very significantly in the future. The role of people using networks must be safeguarded, both in terms of content and technology. The use of content and information in electronic form, the electronic network, increases the need to build widebands throughout Finland. That is precisely the need for Finland as a whole, and I believe that leisure-time housing should also be eligible. I would like to emphasise once again that it is possible for all people to have them in working communications, that is important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u8	Madam President! The so-called 5G clause certainly attracts interest among the citizens and the various actors in society, but it is certainly not the only nut in this vast package of laws. The proposed new regulation of audiovisual content services includes obligations in particular for the protection of minors and the public. Regulation alone is not enough to guarantee safer media content for children and young people, but it is an important part of the whole. Media education from both society and parents plays a crucial role in protecting minors from disturbing media content. Madam President! There are both foreign and security policy aspects to the whole, which is why the law has been prepared with exceptionally wide-ranging preparation of civil servants. It is important that national security considerations are taken into account extensively in the proposal. Changes to the provisions on hazard information are also very welcome. Updating the regulations and the application-based transmission of hazard information reports will improve public information in emergency situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u9	Madam President! It should be welcomed, as it were, that this kind of regulation is now being introduced. It is indeed a massive package, but so it is that communication and information is a big social issue overall, and it is understandable that this should be done. Mr Tolvanen made a special point about what needs to be done strictly, but at the same time we must also take account of the fact that the baby is not going with the bath water. In other words, when you are rough about things, you must also respect the freedom of expression, that these removals will then be real in terms of legal protection. We must have the means to do so, as well as the fact that this price in these universal service numbers really does come true, that it does not just remain a record. It needs to be regulated carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u10	Mr President, värderade talman! Vi har ett digert lagförslag om elektronisk communication på vårt bord. Jag vill närmast ta upp de ändringar som gäller textningen av TV-program som en stor Jämlikhetsfråga. Det är bra att det nu föreslås strängare krav på tvsaktörernas scyldighet att förse program med ljud och text och att kravet nu utökas till att delvis gälla också leverantörer av beställ-tv-tjänster. Dossutom ska textningen av program på finska och svenska vara tillräckligt klar och begriplig för användaren. Det är viktigt främst för personer med nedsatt hörsel men också med tanke på både barn och barnprogram.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u11	Madam President! This is an extensive package with a lot to do with the development, competition and security of network connections. However, the most interesting points relate to the position of consumers. Firstly, the maximum duration of fixed-term telecommunications contracts would now be reduced to 12 months, compared with 24 months. This will improve the ability of consumers to switch more closely and increase competition for customers. On the other hand, 24-month contracts have often been good and affordable also from the customer’s point of view. It is interesting to see how this change will affect pricing, and I think that this should be followed up. In addition, the draft law provides for so-called subscriber numbers. It is, of course, good for consumers to have cheaper access to service numbers, but, on the other hand, if this leads to no more access to the service by telephone, it will make it difficult for them to access the service at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u12	Madam Speaker! True Finns are concerned about the freedom of expression on the Internet. With regard to this government proposal, it can also be considered that this adds to the private obligation to monitor the expression of the other. In other words, we have little concern that Finland will go down the road of censorship if it is not possible to clarify them. It seems that in this proposal it can be very difficult. Article 226c of the motion give an interpretation of the obligation in practice to ensure that there is no incitement against the people in the service. This would mean, for example, that a platform such as YouTube would have to go through these things all the time, remove and monitor, and that it would be given control over the authority. This is a little worrying. In the DDR, Stasi was watching and now Facebook, or who's watching in some Silicon Valley?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u13	Madam President! I would draw attention to the fact that, in order to promote European content, subscription programme service providers must reserve at least 30% of European works in programme selections and ensure that they are sufficiently visible. I understand very well that non-American productions, such as Netflix or Amazon Prime, want to clear up space in services, but I am not quite sure that European cultural protectionism is the right answer to this. I think it is important that political decision-makers do not overstep what kind of cultural provision is artificially offered to people in these streaming services, and that is why I hope that Finland in the EU will promote lighter rather than heavier obligations on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u14	Madam President! Now I have to say that this government proposal does indeed assume that the consumer's position will be improved. It is important that the non-standard pricing of business numbers should be abolished, that fixed-term telephone subscription contracts should be limited to 12 months and that the minimum speed of the universal service broadband should be increased, which would then be the subject of a change to the regulation. Equality is also an important point. From the point of view of accessibility, it is important to impose a 30% voice and subtitle obligation on the software of certain subscription software services. In addition, the law introduces an obligation to the adequate quality of the subtitle services of special groups and thus to promote equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u15	Madam President! Just as the Minister has well presented, effective communication and communication are now central to the Government Programme and to this massive legislative package. Today, the Internet and broadband are very much similar to basic services such as electricity and water. Even in this crisis, we have found that telework and various opportunities to operate and work at home require well-functioning internet and broadband services. With this in mind, I would like to draw attention to 5G, to its construction. Just as this bill has made correct comments about it, I think it is important to look carefully at the fact that not only information security but also national security will be achieved, and that we are looking carefully at whether our tactics will be to divide this into many baskets or perhaps one solution. But now we cannot afford to be blue-eyed, but we also need to look a little outside Finnish glasses and think,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u16	Madam President! This package of laws is important for consumer services, digitalising society, information security and security, both the integrity of minors and the safety of society as a whole. As a personal matter, I would like to thank the Minister for his important proposals to improve the accessibility of digital services. Among other things, we are now improving quality subtitles and the availability of subtitles, which is an important improvement for people with hearing disabilities. In the future, 5G communications networks will play an increasingly important role as society becomes digital. Digitalising society does not necessarily run counter to internal or external security, but rather both must be promoted, and it has also been promoted through extensive preparation of this legislative package. This package also proposes the establishment of a network safety advisory board for public and private actors, which seems to be a very good idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u17	Mr President! The presentation has many good features, improvements to cyber security and services. With regard to these services, there is scope for development, mainly in terms of how to take account of the planning areas outside urban centres. At the moment, they depend mainly on the goodwill of operators in terms of online access. Broadband is being built in rural areas at the expense of the state by means of photofibers, and in urban centres these services come in anyway, but there are also interconnectors. Indeed, on the bad side of the proposal, I would see the danger of arbitrary behaviour, in particular the prohibition of licences on the grounds that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that someone is guilty of inciting a group of people. At the moment, the Prosecutor General is determining whether quoting the Bible is excruciating against the people. Would this now mean that all Christian channels would be banned on the basis of this law, since they can stimulate a group of people by quoting the Bible?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u18	Madam President! This is indeed an important package, which has now come before us in the Committee on Transport and Communications. I will take two comments, two specific comments from the big package. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for your consideration of the so-called FM radios. In fact, there was such a risk in this original package that, for new cars, only the possibility of listening to digital radio would have been required, which would have led to this traditional Finnish FM network being completely excluded, which would have resulted in international platform giants leaving room on the side of these radio services. It's important and good that you have it fixed. As a second point, I would like to point out that the maximum duration of mobile network access agreements will be reduced to 12 months, and I would ask the Minister whether you are also considering that this deadline could be further reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u19	Mr President! The Finns of Peru have been very concerned here that incitement to the people’s group would become more difficult. In fact, for almost 20 years we have had a law on freedom of expression also regarding electronic media, and the problem has largely been that there is an attempt to obtain the same kind of responsibility and freedom of expression as in traditional media. This technology is moving forward all the time and it is not possible to implement in these new instruments the same kind of control of freedom of expression and responsibility as traditional ones. It is important that such a reform should now be made of new technologies for one part, so that the situation can be improved. It is also important that Article 244a, which has already been mentioned in the debate, is worded as follows: for equipment used in critical parts of the communication network. The current European debate on Huawei shows that this is the eleventh time to introduce such a kind of preventive provision.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u20	Madam President! Technological development is rapid and brings good and bad and mild phenomena. The transfer of content to the network presents challenges for children who have not yet developed media literacy and the criticalness needed to operate online. The child’s development is adversely affected by content that is too violent, sexual or distressing. However, children are large consumers of networks, so it is very necessary to protect them. I am in favour of obliging a telecommunications company to remove illegal content even in cases where a service provider is not being reached. I would like to ask the Minister: how will this be monitored in due course, and whether there is sufficient resources to do so?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u21	Mr President! A very large and large package, which I hope will be carefully dealt with by the committees, particularly with regard to this security, which has already been mentioned in many of the speeches. However, I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister about this issue of fibre cable, which has now been mentioned to some extent in the media, that the government's aim would be to extract a fibre cable for every smog and smoke. Will this be the case, as with electricity networks, when prices are then passed directly on to consumers, while technology is developing so that it is estimated that the global space Internet will be available to all in 2027? So when technology develops, are we still getting caught up? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u22	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. That's a hell of a brick, but you picked up some things from there. After all, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs will give an opinion on this to the Committee on Transport and Communications, and we will focus in particular on media literacy and then on the protection of minors. After all, in Finland, we do not leave the beginning in terms of media literacy, but we are very advanced. But he paid attention to the protection of minors. It is stated that ‘Member States must take appropriate measures to ensure that the audiovisual contentservices provided by the audiovisual contentservices of their jurisdictions,which may adversely affect the physical, mental or moraldevelopments of minors,are offered only in order to ensure By the way, this is going to be a pretty tough deal for all of us. It also requires every parent of us to look in the mirror. And how will this be monitored? In addition, accessible access to information
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u23	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for a good introduction. As has been said here, a rather thick package is a package, but I recall that the Committee on Transport and Communications once had an even thicker package and it was related to the same subject. The Minister mentioned here that the services of citizens are guaranteed throughout Finland — as I recall — and then there was this reliability and security. These are important things. And now that the copper network in those sparsely populated areas has been dismantled, it has not now been replaced in the same proportion as the mobile connection, or, if so, it has not covered these areas. As this electronic service concept expands here, this fibre network will have a significant impact on the way the mobile works in its entirety throughout Finland. How does the Minister see this possibility in terms of the ethic of the fiber?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u24	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Inledningsvis vill jag taga ministern för en valdigt bra presentation. Det är som sagt fråga om ett wastetort mastodontlagpaket, över 500 siir, och det kan commenteras ur flera oika perspectiveiv. Men bland you give kring den ox textningen av TV-program på finska och svenska så är det valdigt, valdigt bra att den är tydlig och klar, och det är bra för framtiden. I dag fungerar det inte så bra.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u25	Mr President! It's a big, big package. A great deal of attention must be paid to accessibility and accessibility for both hearing and visually impaired and other groups of people with disabilities, and I would like to ask the Minister about this. The quality of TV subtitles will be taken into account, but with the increase in subscription service programs, that 30% subtitle target sounds really low. However, could higher percentages be obtained in the next few years? Critical media literacy — how to maintain and improve it? And I would like to hear what the Minister thinks, how we can effectively protect children and young people from harmful online content. National security, the reliability of communications networks and network security must be taken into account, but then I would like to ask about the health safety of 5G networks: how has health safety and potential effects been studied in the context of the 5G network, especially as it is now expanding and relying on it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u26	Mr President! This bill is very wide-ranging and I myself have been familiar with this wide-ranging package of laws, particularly from the point of view of the rights of people with disabilities. There is a lot of good in this bill, but from the point of view of equality, the bill should have been more ambitious. However, greater attention should have been paid to accessibility, access to information on incidents and access to the participation of people with disabilities, among other things. When it comes to accessibility, we should always remember citizens who need plain language and sign language. For example, the Sign Language Act imposes an obligation on the authorities to promote the rights of those using sign language in their activities to obtain information in their own language. I hope that the committees will now listen carefully to the experts, particularly from the point of view of the implementation of the UN's rights of disabled people, in order to make some further improvements to this bill, and I will then bring up those suggestions for improvement in my actual speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u27	Madam President! In this proposal there are both good things and things that are a little question mark. The situation of people with speech and hearing disabilities will clearly improve and the coverage of the network will be expanded. I would like to remind Minister Harakka of what was said earlier in Kemi that the satellite households still do not see Yle’s canals — just as a side note. But — and I will continue to do so — this is probably a pretty big issue for the video-sharing platforms to be regulated. I was thinking that it was not quite clear to me if, for example, we were thinking of TickTok, which is a Chinese video-sharing platform, that this is touching TickTok in any way? After all, there has recently spread this kind of shocking suicide video, which has also been much discussed in the media.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u28	Mr President! It is clear, Minister, that there have been very relevant points of view here, and it is equally clear that Finland must not be left behind in any way in terms of technology. But, Minister, you yourself know very well that today's fight for cyber-warfare is in practice taking place on broadband networks. It is a very sensitive and important issue that can paralyse society when it is at a critical stage and if a bad day occurs. I would like the Minister to shed some light on the aspect of how to resolve the fact that this clearly sensitive, discretic issue does not open up our security side in any decisive way or to the least.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u29	Madam President! We all still have a good memory of how the corona virus landed in Finland in March. At that time, a large number of people moved to telework, children began to study remotely, and older relatives were contacted mainly through video calls. Finland did a huge digital leap in a moment. Madam President! As society moves more and more to the network, it is important that the services it provides are accessible to all Finns on an equal footing. This is not the case at the moment, and the reason is very simple. There are no functional and equal online connections across Finland. I would like to ask the Minister and the Government: in practice, how is it possible for all Finns to have equal access to online services in our vast country? We have warning examples that it cannot at least operate on the basis of the municipalities and that this cannot be done with the pockets of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u30	Madam President! As has been said here, many important things are on the table here. Of course, the role of consumers will be improved, fast network connections will be promoted and secure network connections will also be promoted. I personally think it is important to improve accessibility here. With regard to the previous speech, my own big message here would be that equality in the digital society. Digiloikas have been taken, will be taken, and is an important part of people who do not have access to digital networks. One very topical issue is the availability of banking services, for example. Just yesterday, the Financial Supervisory Authority held a press conference, including the fact that more attention will be paid to the availability of basic banking services in the digital age and in the corona period, and that is what, for example, was discussed at the last meeting of the Financial Supervisory Authority. President! I ask the Minister: how does the government intend to promote equality in the digital world in a big picture?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u31	Madam President! It's a really big legal package. True Finns are still concerned about freedom of expression. The Finnish Constitution provides for everyone to have freedom of expression: ‘Freedom of speech,public access and other messages without prejudice to anyone’s right. “ The Finnish Journalist Federation defines freedom of expression a little as follows: Finnish freedom of expression is guaranteed in the Constitution and in the European Convention on Human Rights. Freedom of expression plays a key role in a democratic society. Freedom of expression includes expression of opinion, reception and sharing without preemptive interference. Freedom of speech includes the presentation of powerful and provocative expressions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u34	Mr President! I am quite convinced that this legislative package, too, has considered, among other things, the relationship between freedom of expression and the Constitution and the content of this bill. There's one whole chapter here about it. My question to the Minister actually relates to the fact that very good points of view have been raised here in relation to national security or, on the one hand, to the general protection of minors, for example, and, on the other hand, when we have heard about this in the Committee on Culture and Education, it is quite clear that it is not only by regulating this matter that it will not be possible to do so, but also, on the other hand, to have a greater common will and, on the other hand, a joint commitment to, for example, respect for certain age limits in the various services. This is an issue that must be quite difficult to monitor. But, Minister, do you in the government have the capacity to make changes, if any, in such a comprehensive package, to amend this proposal or to clarify it in some respects during the parliamentary procedure?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u35	Madam President! Successful communication is in all respects an issue of equality and accessibility. There are many people among us who cannot follow communication without written words and phrases. Speech recognition techniques used by different television channels have varied widely and, at worst, the information transmitted to the viewer may have become disinformative. In addition to inequality, at worst it can also be harmful. Under the UN CRPD, disabled persons are also entitled to follow films, television programmes or other cultural activities in such a way that they can be understood correctly. This bill brings a long-needed improvement in the functioning of audiovisual communications, but there are still, for example, no channels of communication for subtitles, and the monitoring of the quality of communication should be carefully assessed. And just as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u36	Madam President! This legislative package on electronic communications services has received a positive reception from experts. It has been carefully prepared. A rapidly developing and digitalising society will certainly bring quite a lot of challenges to legislation, too, because technology is developing rapidly and legislation will then follow. It always takes time to update the laws. In this proposal, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is proposed to set up such a new network safety advisory board, which would represent ministries and the expertise of various administrative sectors, the protection police and FiCom, possibly as well. I would like to ask: does the Advisory Board focus not only on the safety of physical and technological solutions, but also on the security of content? In particular, in the expert hearings of the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the national media education authority, KAVI, which is therefore responsible for monitoring media education and the protection of children from harmful content, raised concerns about their resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u37	Mr President! Indeed, the big package proposes to amend several laws, but I am now focusing on this national part of the AVMS Directive. The protection of minors from harmful online content is, of course, to be welcomed, but in this context it is also necessary to address other demands for social media services, such as hate speech and forbidden content, as was the case with my party, for example, on Facebook. The general trend in our society is very worrying. The definition of hate speech is partly arbitrary, politicised, undemocratic and contrary to freedom of expression. The purpose of the legislation is not to remove different political opinions from the Internet, but it does. Last year's working group published a collection of measures to regulate the whole of social media and, among other things, to retrain people who do not manage the right kind of communication on the right issues. This is an advance censorship and a restriction on freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u38	Mr President! As colleagues have said earlier, this is a massive package, which in fact has a lot of good for consumers and different operators. My own personal duubions come from the fact that this package is big enough to make the digital single market in Europe work as they should. At the moment, we have a situation where 66% of the companies in the platform economy are located in North America, 30 in Asia, 3 in Europe and 2 in Africa, so we are completely out of control in the digital single market. Is this, according to the Minister, just the kind of regulation, the new regulation that we could use to reach out to?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u39	Mr President! I would like to ask a question which I believe is sometimes considered by the majority of the citizens and certainly everyone in this Chamber as well. In our modern communications we use a lot of emails, WhatsApp, text messages, but also Teams, Skype, Facebook and so on. Does this presentation provide confirmation that each of us could perhaps be a little more secure in using modern means of communication, bearing in mind, of course, normal caution and common sense? My second question relates to the fact that Mrs Torniainen has raised the issue of extending the broadbands throughout Finland, which is therefore an issue of equality. What are the methods of government?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u40	Madam President! Indeed, a huge package of laws, and, of course, in the case of such a complex, large package, we must monitor the implementation and its effects closely and monitor that all these objectives are fulfilled. I myself would like to take a stand on this issue of security. This is a balance between security and industrial and technological policy — an important world in which democratic societies are being destabilised and weakened by various combinations of influences, and that is already commonplace. From that point of view, for example, this new Network Security Advisory Board sounds very good. I would have asked more broadly: when there is a record in the Government Programme of developing strategic management of cyber security, what else does this law actually include? And perhaps to the end the hope that when this 5G seems to evoke a wide range of ideas, some of which are rather unscientific, linked to various conspiracies, then they will be remembered to be
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u41	Mr President! There is not yet enough data available on the health effects of 5G technology. However, there has already been quite a lot of concern about health. As 5G technology becomes more widespread, it would be absolutely necessary to apply the precautionary principle, especially in view of the sensitivity of children. Already in 2009, the European Parliament resolution states that base stations should not be installed near schools or kindergartens, for example. However, now that 5G technology is increasing, it also brings a large number of antennas close to schools and kindergartens. However, in many countries there are lower limit values for non-ionizing radiation than Finland, and in all countries it is not possible to place antennas as close to residential houses as in Finland. I am therefore very concerned about these potential health effects, especially for children and young people, for future generations. I would therefore like to see serious attention paid to this issue in committee, and I would also like Minister Harakka to have a very thorough examination of this matter. This is a very serious issue, and there are many international examples of this that we can take
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u42	Mr President! This comprehensive package of updating electronic communications services will be needed from the point of view of society’s digitalisation, change in working forms and security on the one hand. I see this as a special opportunity for minors in what improvements can now be made. We in this proposal will, among other things, ‘protect children from programmes, the videos produced by users and the audiovisual commercial communication which might be harmful to child development’,and to prevent the dissemination of criminal material It would be necessary to introduce this on a large scale, making full use of all the possibilities provided by the law. I'd like to, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u43	Madam President! This really is a big and important piece of legislation and the look will be strong in the future. However, I would like to tell you something: In spring 2019, I had to pick up a form from the tax office. I couldn't get in there because that space was already full of people. There was a guard at the door and a long line outside. It was people who, as the saying goes, are not able to do these things digitally for different reasons, age or other reasons. We are currently seeing similar lines outside the banks. Of course, they are currently based on this corona situation, but those people would not be in those lines if they were digitally handling these issues. This digital exclusion is a very serious issue — it probably affects about half a million Finns — and there must be solutions. In words we all admit this, but we need to find ways to help these people deal with things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u44	I will give two more answers, and then the Minister will give the floor. Grahn-Laasonen and then Filatov and then the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u45	Mr President! First of all, thank you for the floor. Although the thickness of the package is not a guarantee of quality when laws are enacted, it seems that good work has been done at the Ministry under the direction of the Minister, on the basis of extensive preparation. A few withdrawals here: firstly, an attempt to increase competition for the benefit of consumers, switching connections, speed of connections, cheaper pricing of telephone communications, rights for people with visual and hearing disabilities and, of course, the protection of minors, which has been widely discussed. My question concerns Finland as a pioneer in digitalisation and us as an innovation environment. There is, of course, a major problem for Europe as a whole as to how we can cope with this digital competitiveness. This debate has given a lot of attention to security issues — reliability is, of course, the key value we want to uphold — but, in parallel, I hope that the Minister will take a position on how we improve
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u46	Mr President! We have certainly seen the significance of the digital environment for us during the corona, and we have also noticed some shortcomings in its functionality, and it is therefore important that this should be promoted. But the digital environment is not only what we have on the networks, and what is network security, but it is also what is the safety of the customer and the possibility of accessing services if he does not know how to use the digital environment. With examples of banks and some others, the tax office, I would like to highlight one good example. For example, Kela's Kampin office developed a procedure in which people can also receive support for how digital services can be used, so that they can learn how to use them at home, or so that they can get help there on the spot. This type of methodology should be developed, in the same way that we should take account of service design. We often only talk about the need for people to learn, but their service providers also need to learn to make more humane services. I would like to see this legislation developed as if it were a continuation of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u47	And now, Minister Harakka, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u48	Mr President! I hope I can find out about these notes — in this context, we do not use the term 'grab toes'. Let's start with broadband availability. That was one of the many questions raised. It was raised by Mrs Torniainen, Mr Slunga-Poutsalo and many others. It is the case that this government strongly advocates the availability of sufficient and, in fact, efficient data transmission across Finland on an equal basis. This can be achieved by a variety of means, and here our starting point is technological neutrality. The photofibre will have at least enough to provide us with a route to these base stations in all circumstances. But the starting point and goal is that 5G level data transfer is available throughout Finland's geographical area, including the archipelago and wilderness. Proper resources are being set aside for this purpose. Another issue of equality is accessibility. I would like to thank Mr Mäkisalo-Roppo and others who raised this point. As a sign language, I am well aware that we could have taken an even longer step towards promoting accessibility in this legislation. I'll accept the criticism. This is a step forward, but it could always be longer, especially from the point of view of users. Thirdly, Mr Niikko and Mr Tanus raised the question of the radiation effects of the 5G networks, as did Mr Eloranta. It is now important to rely on the expertise of the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Centre, STUK. It is the agency we have entrusted with the safety of nuclear installations. If we do not trust STUK with regard to the safety of nuclear installations, then we may be on a incline surface. Concerns were also raised about the regulation of these video distribution platforms. It should now be remembered that, in general, Finland has been very reluctant, or liberal, as regards, for example, the requirement to regulate the content of social media in the European Union. Once this debate has taken place in the EU, the Ministry of Transport and Communications has not been the first to increase the responsibility of these platforms for their content. However, it is a little different now when it comes to the fact that the video-sharing platforms concerned by Finnish legislation must include in their terms of use provisions on the fight against terrorism, against child pornography and against incitement to groups of people. This is certainly justified by a large majority. [Left: Correct!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u49	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u50	We will now resume the debate on the third item which has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u51	Mr President! In my debate, I have already mentioned that the draft law should have been more ambitious in terms of the realisation of the rights of people with disabilities, and a few arguments for this: First of all, the functionality, speed and quality of Internet connections in practice determine how citizens can participate in the information society and use online services. This also applies to people with disabilities. The necessary speed of connections is, among other things, a prerequisite for remote interpretation. Access to broadband content must be guaranteed to all citizens. Secondly, as regards the accessibility of audiovisual content, 30% of voice and subtitle services still do not represent the scope required by the UN CRPD, but the supply should be comprehensive. It would now be necessary to draw up a plan of gradual progress so that better coverage can be achieved gradually and with a goal. In addition, there is a shortcoming that the draft law does not have a subtitling obligation for all channels. The Finnish Federation of Visually Impaired Persons has also suggested that the Finnish public service film and drama software should be accompanied by a description interpreting service to promote equality among visually impaired people. Thirdly, recordings relating to the quality of TV subtitles in domestic programmes are the right direction, but quality control should be given more attention. In particular, certain channels have a lot of quality problems that prevent, for example, hearing impaired people from following the program. According to a recent thesis, up to 68 per cent of people with hearing disabilities have ignored the TV program due to lack of subtitles and half of the respondents have not looked at the programmes because of poor quality subtitles. This lack has been perceived to be unequal and restricting freedom of choice. Fourthly, the draft law still does not propose subtitles for live broadcasts. For the time being, there is still a need for human labour, because speech recognition technology does not yet produce a sufficiently high-quality text, but that is what we should strive for. Fifthly, it is still not clear from the presentation whether it contains audio subtitles for foreign-language sections of news and topical programmes, which would be particularly important for the visually impaired. And the sixth very important aspect: when it comes to dangerous reports, it should be ensured that it should also be transmitted in audio-texted and signposted form when it comes to communication via television. Risk information solutions other than those based on smart devices should also be maintained so that people do not become unequal. Quality requirements should also be laid down for hazard information. The UN CRPD, which we have already ratified, requires all necessary measures to protect people with disabilities in the event of a danger. Mr President! In conclusion, therefore, the draft law is a step in the right direction. There are a lot of good things in it, but there are still big gaps in the implementation of equality, and that is why I hope that the committee will carefully address these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u52	Madam President! I am not going to repeat the list that Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen brought here. However, I would also like to stress that this information on the situation must be of high quality and must reach all citizens, regardless of their own abilities, and precisely so that these already traditional forms of incident reporting remain available. As far as direct programmes are concerned, this lack of subtitles is problematic, but I am confident that technology is developing at a good pace, and now I have to say that when I use the dictation service on my smartphone, it is incredibly good: there is little need to fix. I do not know if it is in accordance with the Road Traffic Act that when I speak that good idea to the SMS server, it translates it directly into text, and that is good. I would like the committee, at its own reading, to ask the experts to tell us where the technology is at at the moment, but how possible it would be for these direct programmes to be subtitled at the moment. There was a great deal of talk about how to enable all these digital services and connections, and the health effects associated with 5G were stressed in a real and proper way. However, I would also like to raise my own view in this debate that we should ensure that the construction of the networks continues to be a state service provided by Cinia Oy. In other words, we currently have a company that controls the fibre network, which is Cinia, and it must be ensured that it really remains state-owned. We must not do trades like Digita and Caruna in this country, that we are able to manage that price and indeed keep these networks at the disposal of all citizens. We don't necessarily have a commercial agent... It is up to his goodwill whether or not they are going to build these cables, fiber optic cables, in the countryside, and in every nip. In other words, let us keep our own and make it possible for all citizens to have open data.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u53	Madam President! I would like to raise three points in this speech: first I want to talk about health safety; second I want to talk about freedom of expression in this legislation; and thirdly, cyber security. This introduction of faster connections must not be a risk to safety or health. As regards radiation safety, Finland naturally complies with international standards. They ensure that radiation does not have harmful thermal effects on the body. However, some studies have suggested that electromagnetic and mobile phone radiation may cause other types of health-related symptoms. As wireless communications become more widespread and develop rapidly, Finland should actively promote independent research into the long-term effects of radiation. Development is important, but it must not in any way endanger the health of citizens. No information was found in the Parliamentary Information Service that there was an independent study in Finland specifically dealing with the effects of 5G radiation. Finland participates in the international Cosmos study, which examines the health effects of the phone. We can expect the results of this within five to ten years. The Finnish Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority (STUK) recommends that unnecessary exposure to cell phone radiation should not occur, especially for children, this should be avoided. However, STUK’s recommendation does not apply to submission by the base station because there are no scientifically valid indications of its adverse health effects. This makes this issue problematic, namely that on page 366 of the Government's proposal there is a reference to the right of telecommunications companies to invest in telecommunications cable, base station and radio towers as a problem. It is mentioned here that ‘the base station and its equipment and cable may also be second-owned or managed under the conditions laid down in this Chapter’,and that ‘thetele company must agree with the owner or In other words, if the property owner does not want a base station, a radio tower or a telecommunications cable to be installed in his property, he cannot influence it if, for example, the building control authority gives a supportive statement to this entrepreneur. Well, there's nothing wrong with these cables and others being installed, but with this base station, I'd be suspicious. We MEPs here have spoken very much over the years, for example, about how every person has the right to a clean indoor air. For this we have an indoor air project in every municipality, indoor clean schools, day care centres and various jobs. This is already the obvious fact that we all lean on and drive into this, but I have not yet seen the day when we start talking about the fact that there is also a health-security indoor space for those who clearly need it. I do not think it is right, even with regard to the protection of human property, to look at this, to demand the construction of a base station on the wall of other people's property, property, if, for example, from the point of view of health safety, anyone opposes it. On this point, I would like to see some sort of interpretation or room for manoeuvre here, that these issues can also be prevented to some extent, so that they do not become disputes. Mr President! The second thing I would like to talk about is the short-term programme authorisation. It is stated here in section 28 that ‘...short-term television and radioactivityin the digital terrestrial masscommunication network without the procedure laid down in Articles23 and25,ifthere is no doubt that the applicant is breaking the law or In other words, the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency must grant a software licence for short-term operations. But then there is the fact that if it is suspected that the applicant is violating, for example, the article against the people’s group for this purpose, such a permit may be refused. In other words, just as the representative here mentioned it — if a non-governmental organisation or a congregation — Jani Mäkelä mentioned it — broadcasts a radio program that interprets, for example, a Bible declaration or a Bible reading based on hate speech, then the mere suspicion that such hate speech will continue to be practiced makes it possible to refuse its short-term software license, [Eva Biaudet’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u54	Mr President! Digitalisation and technological innovation renew our way of communicating and communicating. In the future, 5G communications networks will play an increasingly important role as society becomes digital. As the communication networks develop and align their activities, greater attention must also be paid to their vulnerability and possible foreign and security policy implications. The development of 5G networks raises the same international policy issues as technological development in general: how to manage security risks in emerging technologies, and how technology partnerships and security policy partnerships interact. The Committee on Foreign Affairs will certainly look at these aspects carefully. Finland’s 5G cybersecurity risk management solutions The EU is a central reference framework for us. During its Presidency, Finland promoted the EU's common 5G risk assessment and produced Council conclusions on this issue in December 2019. In January, an EU common range of 5G security risk management tools (toolbox) was published. It includes measures to manage technological and strategic security risks and their implementation in this law is. The Agency is the competent authority here to ensure that the equipment used in the communication network does not constitute a threat to national security. It is also proposed that the Foreign Affairs, Defence and Home Affairs Administration be consulted here, and it is important that such an assessment base is made by a larger group than one ministry. The Government's proposal proposes the creation of a new Network Security Advisory Board, which would include representatives of the key sectors of the security of communications networks, representatives of key telecommunications companies and lobbyists. Such institutionalised continuous evaluation work and the link between the public and private sectors are important in the development of communication networks and their social importance. The Advisory Board can even be a good national example of better consideration of network security when assessing the development and updating needs of legislation. Mr President! The presentation briefly mentions media education. In its opinion, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs should focus more on how the media literacy of every person living in Finland, both a child and an adult, could be increased and what resources and know-how exist. I see that in a changing society, in the face of a flood of information, increasing media criticism and media literacy are ultimately also security issues and democracy. [The President knocks ] Mr President! Shall I take it from there, from the toilet?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u57	Mr President! There are really good things going on in this proposal on electronic communications, but the representatives of Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Hopsu did bring up these equality considerations in a wise and sensible way, for example in matters of disability. They were very important and valuable speeches. President! The proposal does raise the consumer's security and services in general, even if the maximum duration of telephone subscription contracts is reduced from the current 24 months to 12 months. Similarly, the minimum speed of broadband is rising, these voice and subtitle obligations of TV operators are expanding and business pricing is being taken into account. And, of course, the important thing is to promote the construction of communications networks and to develop safer networks and content in general. Therefore, Finland will continue to be a pioneer in communication policy. Our networks are the most advanced in the world, but communication in them is advantageous. Electronic communications are developing continuously and rapidly, and the corona crisis has increased further. It is therefore important that legislation should also keep pace with developments as content is increasingly transferred to the network. The need for efficient and secure networks is growing and the role of consumers must be safeguarded, both in terms of content and technology. President! I would like to raise one very important point once again. The introduction of content into the network clearly increases the extension of broadbands to Finland as a whole, including recreational dwellings, granny cottages and so on. It is largely a question of equal opportunities for citizens to choose life according to their own will and mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u58	Madam President! I find it difficult to see that Bible - based speech would face problems because of this law. We have freedom of religion and freedom of speech in our country. For example, when we speak on the basis of the Bible with respect for other people, we can speak freely on different channels. We are amending the Electronic Communications Services Act. The package is very wide. We will be considering this proposal in many committees, including the Committee on Culture. Children and disabled people in particular will then be under consideration. Finland is a pioneer in communication policy. Our networks are the most advanced in the world, and communication in them is inexpensive. It needs to be maintained. Electronic communications are constantly developing with great strides. The interest-rate crisis has increased further. That is why it is important that our legislation remains in progress as content and various services are increasingly transferred to the network. The need for effective and secure networks is growing. The role of consumers who use them must be safeguarded, both in terms of content and technology. As Mr Kivisaari has already said, we need a light fiber for every cape, bend and sarelma, for the whole of Finland, including for free-time residences. This would contribute to the desire of many Finns to return to the country for teleworking, to the middle of nature, and to communication connections at the same time. At the same time, the safety of light fibers must be ensured from the point of view of cyber attacks and the safety of our people as a whole. Technological development brings with it much good and necessary but also mild phenomena, such as the economic exploitation of the weak. This is why legislation must safeguard the position of consumers in this wonderful world of technology, where many can also make unnecessary purchases. I am thinking of an old man with a poor hearing in the thighs, whose offspring are only planning to move back home. I warmly support the proposal to reduce the maximum duration of fixed-term telephone subscription contracts from 24 months to 12 months. This allows you to change the connection if you have to buy it unknowingly. It is also to be welcomed that phone calls to business's national subscriber numbers should in future only be paid by the amount of the mobile phone and local call charges. It would no longer be possible to charge higher prices for the subscriber number. This also reduces the costs of ignorance. The transition of content to the network brings challenges for us. Children who have not yet developed media literacy and the necessary criticalness are particularly vulnerable to content. Children are high consumers of online content, so it is they who should be protected from harmful content. Adequate resources must also be made available for this. According to the draft law, a telecommunications company could be obliged to remove illegal content even in cases where a service provider, such as a content download service, is not available. That has not been possible so far. This contributes to preventing crimes against children. Mr President! By changing the law alone, we do not solve the whole challenge; we also need extensive media education. It is a good thing that our school curricula now include media literacy education from early childhood education to secondary education. Children are able to work in social media and online in a responsible way. Curriculum plans should be kept up-to-date as technology leaps forward. There is also a need for continuous training in media education for teachers. I am also concerned about older people who have only recently learned how to use social media and the network. They haven't had any media education. They're at the mercy of fake news and disinformation. Their own groups are people who do not feel that they need media literacy themselves but, for example, regard their faith in conspiracy theories as media criticism. They should also be included in media education. Our job is to ensure in society that we receive support for this media literacy. Libraries could be a key player in this education. They could contribute to the diverse literacy of all ages, including media literacy. The task could also be carried out by Yle and free civilised work. There is a need for extensive cooperation between the various parties. And it's not worth doing it all by yourself. We need to consider what we can do together with our neighbours. Such a thing could be, for example, the cross-border prevention of illegal content. It's necessary because the Internet doesn't know the boundaries of the kingdom. If any content is found illegal in a European country, it could also be found illegal in another European country by means of an accelerated procedure. This requires Nordic cooperation. Mr President! This vast package of laws will be needed. Attention will be paid to the rights of people with disabilities and to plain language, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u59	Madam President! Now we are dealing with electronic communications, and the increase in e-services has also been identified in the Government Programme, that is to say, digitalisation, and this is very important for the accessibility of citizens' services. But as has been said here before, citizens' services must be secured throughout Finland, as well as this reliability and security, to which the previous speech pointed out that incorrect information would not be allowed to be entered into these networks. Above all, the mobile network is of course the most vulnerable in this situation. But the fiber is needed to make the mobile work. There are some specific experiences of state-owned companies. Tax Administration, Traficom, Kela and survey reservations and all these types of appointments to and from the doctor are currently very available if you know how to use these systems. And, as the previous speaker pointed out, there must certainly be guidance or help for older people in accessing these services. I attach great importance to this captive quota for telecommunications operators, i.e. if 24 months can reach that 12 months, then I think it is a good one. Here earlier, in the debate, it came up whether it could increase the price. Well, I'm a little different about that. It can even lower the price, because it will only come for one year at a time with this commitment and then the exchange will be easier. That it can even improve this competitive situation and be beneficial to the consumer. Well, when you go to 5G and now with 4G, these are already very important to industry. I will take an example from the port of Oulu: The port of Oulu has its own internal 5G network and logistics works, all loadings and departures and incoming transports work via the 5G network, and this is a very good comparison at the moment. And then we'll have it, too. In Kainuu, Terrafame is currently planning an internal network based on the 4G network — or it is already under construction. In other words, the internal network aims at bringing all the processes and activities into a specific network, and it will then be very accessible there. All in all, this technology will, of course, bring about a new appearance. But security and then accessibility for all are certainly one important thing in this as a whole. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u60	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here on the issue of digital exclusion and it has been mentioned that there are currently about half a million people in Finland who are digitally excluded or digitally excluded. But this figure is understatement. I have checked that figure, and there are almost a million citizens who are digitally excluded, digitally excluded or at risk of exclusion. In other words, it is not a small marginal group, it is a large number of citizens. There's a lot of people out there, or at risk. They are among the elderly, the disabled, but also young people. Many young people may be able to surf conveniently on the Internet, but they do not know how to fill out official forms from the authorities, and this too will displace them in their own way from society. In part, this digital loss or exclusion can be reduced by training and training, and also by developing user-friendly online services, but we will always have citizens who are unable, unable to use or be able to use digital services, and we must therefore also ensure and develop face-to-face services, for example by telephone. They can also be taken forward and modernised. Finally, Mr President, I would like to remind us all of the use of plain language. It is an important part of accessibility and it can be promoted by each of us through our own actions, but it should also be taken into account in legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u61	Mr President! We are dealing with a proposal to amend the law on electronic communications services and some related laws. This was the first bundle this thick for me, and I have to say that I'm not good enough... This is such a huge package that it cannot be fully internalized by itself, but so much I have noted that there is quite a lot of talk about freedom of expression there, and this paragraph here on page 296 says: ‘The restrictions on freedom of expression are based on the law and is an acceptable criterion within the meaning of the European Convention on Human Rights. Regulation is precise and precise. Therefore, the proposed regulation is not problematic in terms of freedom of expression.’ Well, at least seven times there is also a law on incitement against the people, and Mrs Mäkelä raised one problem here. In other words, when Päivi Räsänen is currently suspected of arousal against a group of people who have been quoted from the Bible, this is a rather questionable case, [Eva Biaudet’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u64	Mr President! There has been a good debate here, and I must thank Mr Kivisaarta for his excellent speech that Finland is a pioneer in communication policy, and the Government will continue this good communication policy with a good government proposal. That is where Mr Pierainen said earlier that fiber is needed, that mobile connections also work, and I would also like to point out to this referral that we in this country do not have mobile connections all over the place, i.e. we have these blind spots. I would also like to remind you of the fact in this referral debate that these areas of blindness in this country can also be addressed with regard to mobile network connections. Mr President! To the end: The minimum speed of the universal service broadband is now rising according to this proposal. After all, this proposal proposes to increase the minimum speed of the universal service broadband to 5 megabits per second when it has previously been 2. In my opinion, this is a reasonable withdrawal, and let us move on to the development of a digital society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u65	Irade the Talman! Jag tycker det är ganska intressant att vi har en ny sitation i den finländska politiken när vi har ett parti som vägrar att godkänna strafflagens bestemmelser i ett så allvarligt brott som gäller hat mot andra manniskor — någonting som brode vara speciellt frammande för riksdagsledamöter, speciellt frammande för osss som är valda i.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u66	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u67	Madam President! The so-called fourth railway package of the European Union and all the previous Union legislation in the rail sector were implemented nationally by the Rail Transport Act, which entered into force from the beginning of 2019. Now it is already changing, primarily because the European Commission has adopted certain implementing regulations under the provisions of the fourth railway package, which then require changes to national legislation. As regards the registration of railway infrastructure and railway fleets, tasks are moving from the national registration authorities to the EU Railway Agency in the course of next year. That is why the law provides that these registrations should therefore be carried out at EU level instead of national registers. At the same time, a number of clarifications would be made to the licensing requirements already in place with existing laws: First, it is proposed that a safety certificate should not be required for the movement of a vehicle for the purpose of moving vehicles and for which access to the network or part of it has been closed and where the infrastructure manager has adequately instructed the vehicle transfer procedures. This proposal would replace the transfer work procedure already in force in the Rail Transport Act, which, however, has been faced with problems in implementing it in practice. Second of all: Switching of rolling stock within the place of transport, on private tracks or between the private track and the first point of transport on the state network would be permitted without a rolling stock licence provided that the railway operator and the infrastructure manager have agreed on the area in which the transfer work is to be carried out. This clarification would complement and clarify the current so-called small-scale driver activity, which rests on the arguments of the Government of the Transport Services Act. By now adopting clear provisions, we want to ensure that all actors can experience legal certainty and have clear rules for the exercise of their activities. Clear responsibilities for operators are also essential to ensure security. Finally, I would like to point out that there is also a change in regulation in the government proposal that the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency could suspend or restrict rail transport in the event of a serious disruption of normal conditions, or if the safety of the rail transport system or human life or health are threatened. This amendment of the provision is part of a package that will in future seek to prepare for exceptional situations such as the covid-19 epidemic with the powers of normal legislation, without the need to resort to restrictive measures under the Emergency Act in the future. Similar changes are also being prepared for other modes of transport in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u68	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for his presentation and for raising these important points. First of all, when it comes to this amendment of the Railways Act and the Transport Services Act, this safety certificate is one of those quite important things. However, I am one of these old union men and I have worked for VR at the time when VR was the only operator, and then, of course, VR managed these in accordance with the so-called Rail Traffic Regulations and then there was every traffic point, because they are their own, their own traffic rules and traffic regulations. And here, of course, the problem now is that when the law seeks to introduce provisions, it makes this situation more difficult. Now, for example, this safety certificate is released from such small-scale traffic, and then, in the case of small-scale replacement work, there would be no need for a licence for the driver, i.e. he does not then have a degree in driving the locomotive. In my opinion, there is now a road safety risk here, given that there is no licence, and then if the safety equipment is not still in place on these private aircraft or other operators' machines, then there is a risk of safety. And now that a number of operators are coming into traffic — it seems so — more attention should be paid to rail safety. This is where I see the problem. Now that I have gone through the statements, different forms have been put forward here. I am not going to read them for lack of time, but I hope that the Committee on Transport and Communications will then take these into account and, of course, I hope that the Minister will have a positive idea that the Committee on Transport and Communications will be able to change this in a small way. Here, as I said just now, is the possibility of such a road safety risk. Above all, it must be borne in mind that all actors have an idea of how to act, how to move and what signs to follow, and then to understand the meaning of the signals correctly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u69	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for presenting the law. There are, in large part, very technical changes to several different laws which seek to clarify and update the regulation of rail transport as required by EU legislation. It is therefore a question of national implementation of the 4th EU Railway Package, in which the new Railway Act entered into force at the beginning of 2019. One major change in this proposal is the proposal that seaport tracks should be treated in a legislative manner in future market regulation as a service place instead of an infrastructure manager. Among other things, the proposal proposes to amend national legislation on the future transmission of the register data to the EU Agency, which is responsible for maintaining the system of registers, since, of course, national legislation cannot conflict with EU law. As far as the road safety risks raised by Mr Pierainen are concerned, these are also matters which we will deal with in committee. There have been various statements on this issue, and these will all be taken into account in this work. We will therefore take this matter properly to the Committee on Transport and Communications and then begin to consult experts immediately on this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u70	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for Transport for that presentation, which well described the content of this government proposal. But like the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications Mr Kymäläinen pointed out that this is in practice a very technical proposal and only technical changes are made. As far as the EU is concerned, we are being put into practice here, and the directives are being implemented. Then, what Mr Pierainen raised, this issue of rail safety. I myself have also drawn the same attention here when I read this government proposal, and I personally hope that in the Committee on Transport and Communications we experts will be consulted on this issue and can also make those clarifications if necessary. It's important. However, all aspects of road safety are important to us all. In fact, I also draw attention to this, which is particularly important: also to rail transport from Russia to Finland, and if there are a number of actors there, this should also be taken into account in these. Above all, it is also a safety factor in stations and also in traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u71	President! I would like to give a practical example of what this is all about: considering that we have had private locomotives on the side of the forest industry who have been working on it in their own yard and working on industrial change for the ages. They have had the same training as VR’s locomotive drivers in the past, of course it has only focused on that replacement work. Then, if they have entered an area operated by VR, when it is a licensed activity, they too have had the security devices, so that normal commercial traffic is taken into account. If such safety devices at this stage do not exist on those locomotives by a private or another operator and then go to the area where normal traffic exists, then there is a risk that it is possible then to go badly. Above all, there should be an understanding of what the command or command means — the railway language has become clearer, but it has also been its own language. In that way, it is worth paying attention to these matters now in committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u72	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u73	Madam President! The change in the electoral code now under discussion is linked to a debate that has been going on for years. The Government proposal will come into force from the beginning of the year, if we decide — in just over three months’ time. This change is symbolically significant as it transfers a number of municipalities from one province to another instead of the current location. For several municipalities, decisions were already requested during the last term of government, as the President-in-Office, for example, remembers then, and it is great that this is finally being brought forward and into this Chamber. I believe that this is a victory for democracy when it comes to it. By example, if I approach the subject, as a shadowy MP, I am delighted that the wish of the municipality of Iti to join Päijät-Häme is finally becoming concrete. For the first time, the Orientals have applied for this transfer almost ten years ago, in 2011. The strong will of the Lithuanians for the change of the province is illustrated by the 2015 advisory referendum, in which the change of the province received majority support. Close democracy is rarely strengthened in this Chamber, but today would be the day. This cooperation between Iiti and the province of Päijät-Häme — hopefully in an even closer form — has been demonstrated, among other things, through this joint society, through the business sector, and now, hopefully, through transport arrangements to an increasing extent. Ititti has also been one of the founding shareholders of Päijät-Häme Central Hospital and has thus shown a significant commitment to this province to which it wishes to join. The municipalities that changed the constituency under the last parliamentary elections were in a challenging situation because they had to wait a long time for this answer when the bill did not move forward for other reasons. It is a great thing that, at this point, I hope, we will be able to move forward with this government's proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u74	Madam President! This is a technical and administrative matter, but I am taking the floor here for a reason which will be clear in the moment through the content of my speech. When, after a very long civil career, I was elected to Parliament, many people have, of course, asked what the work here looks like. I have had such a short version of the so-called elevator speech about it, and its first point is that I have been given a good deal of concreteity about what genuine democracy is. So, in this Chamber, we really decide on laws which apply equally to all Finnish citizens and which, even at the risk of sanctions, must then be complied with. In fact, when we think that such a system is only a little over 100 years old in Finland and a genuine democracy for the whole world's population still does not apply to a small minority of different nations, what is a truly democratic electoral system that, in the most genuine way, implements the ideal of democracy? Even in democratic countries there are very different electoral systems. There is this constituency of one person in England, which they call ‘firstpastthepost’,and when I have discussed with the British people,they feel that they would not want to change it,because they feel that they have the most democratic electoral system. If there were an electoral system in Finland that we would have 200 constituencies, each elected as one representative of Parliament, the composition of this Parliament would be very different from what it is. It is also seen in England that, when they observe the proportional electoral system in the EU elections, the result is very different. Well, there is the same electoral system in France, but at least there will be a second round, at which point we will have to get 50% support to get to Parliament. In the USA, there is basically the same system in Congress elections, and there is a familiar term for ‘gerrymandering’, i.e. electoral district planning, which can change electoral district boundaries to get majority voting and then organise the desired choices. I am not going to keep listing the different systems. These are all democratic systems. What is the challenge in Finland? That is, of course, the fact that we have a few very small constituencies. For example, seven MPs are elected from Lapland, eight from Satakunta, ten from Central Finland and much more than 30 from Great Uusimaa are elected. Well, these issues are not being resolved here, but I think it is all right that we should have a fundamental debate on these issues: what kind of electoral system is implementing the best functioning democracy. That is a very important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-16-ps-113.u75	Mr President! Certainly the constituencies and, therefore, the way in which we vote and the way in which we vote have an impact, but, of course, there is a long-term influence on the formation of provinces and, above all, on social protection. For example, in Pirkanmaa, where Kuhmoinen has now moved from Central Finland, it also means Kuhmos, who has been a municipal member of our hospital district and with whom Jämsä has cooperated again, and Jämsä is in Central Finland. That means major changes in that respect. But all in all, this amendment to the electoral law relates to the very way in which we get the compacts and well-functioning entities and provinces that serve above all the inhabitants best. That is also what people from Kuhmois have had as their starting point that they feel that they are receiving services from Pirkanmaa, both social and non-social, and that is why, of course, this change in the constituency will have an impact on the election.
