ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u1	The plenary session will begin. As an elder from my age as a Member of Parliament, I shall be chairing this first part-session of Parliament until, according to Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament has elected the President and two Vice-Presidents and they have given Parliament a solemn assurance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u2	The election of the President, which, like the election of the Vice-Presidents, is now followed by compliance with the provisions of Article 34(2) of the Finnish Constitution and Articles 5 and 6 of the Parliamentary Statute. The election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn according to the roll call to be made in alphabetical order. Where appropriate, the name of the candidate shall also be identified with sufficient precision using the first name. As assistants for checking ballots and counting votes in the election, I would ask the following representatives: Antti Lindtman, Ritva Elomaa, Kai Mykkänen and Antti Kurvinen. I would also like to point out that the votes cast are not being made public. In order to speed up the election process, I would ask the representatives to take note of the alphabetical order and, for example, to put themselves in a small queue. This is how we can deliver this quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u3	The result of the vote shall be read.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u4	When Matti Vanhanen has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected President of Parliament for the 2020 Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u5	Follow the election of the first Vice-President. The election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives will bring their ballots to the urn in alphabetical order. As assistants in this election, I ask the following representatives: Kristiina Salonen, Sheikki Laakso, Sari Sarkomaa and Hanna-Leena Mattila. I renew the invitation to the representatives to prepare in good time for their vote in the vicinity of the polling station.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u6	The result of the vote shall be read.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u7	When Antti Rinne has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected first Vice-President of Parliament for the 2020 Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u8	Let us move on to the election of another Vice-President. The election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives will bring their ballots to the urn in alphabetical order. As assistants, Ilmari Nurminen, Jukka Mäkynen, Anna-Kaisa Ikonen and Esko Kiviranta are invited to attend. Again, I would ask the representatives to prepare themselves in good time for their vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u9	The result of the vote shall be read.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u10	When Juho Eerola has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected second Vice-President of Parliament for the 2020 Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u11	I now ask the President and the Vice-Presidents each in turn to give the House Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure. the solemn declaration provided for in the Treaty.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u12	Mr President! I, Matti Taneli Vanhanen, assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Matti Taneli Vanhanen försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och ricksdagens rättigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u13	Mr President! I, Antti Juhani Rinne, assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Antti Juhani Rinne försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och riksdagens rättigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u14	I Juho Seppo Antero Eerola assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Juho Seppo Antero Eerola försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och riksdagens rättigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u15	I would ask Mr President to take his place in Parliament and to take action.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u16	Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the elected Bureau, thank you very much for the confidence we have gained in the elections that have just been held. We strive to ensure that Parliament is able to fulfil its own role. We are promoting a culture of debate which is as balanced as possible in terms of parliamentary debate. After all, Parliament is mainly working on the proposals that the Government will make to Parliament, and we must constantly develop a system of proposals from the Government at a steady pace. This would best ensure that we do not have the work overcrowded until the end of the spring session and the autumn session. The more steady the pace we get, the better we can make sure that each thing gets, can say, as it deserves, enough time and that Parliament is able to fulfil its own task. In addition to the government's proposals, citizens' initiatives employ, in an appropriate way, more Parliament than before. In addition to this, I believe that the new Bureau is also trying to create the conditions for the current need for debate which exists. With the various instruments, the discussion initiatives on the part of the government, the discussion initiatives on the part of the representatives, but also if there is a timely debate on the issues to be dealt with in an appropriate way, I think it should be promoted. In these parliamentary days, Parliament will also focus considerably on reforming its own work. We have set up a parliamentary reform working group and three sub-groups for it, and this work will be carried through the work of Parliament, particularly from the work of the representative. It will cover all the information support received by representatives from committee work on the scale, and I hope and expect that, along with all our actual work, representatives and parliamentary groups, we will also be able to devote ourselves to this parliamentary reform. With these words, warm thanks for the trust we received.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-04-ps-1.u17	Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you to the opening of the 2020 Parliaments, which will take place tomorrow, on Wednesday 5.2.2020, and before the opening, in accordance with the programme submitted to the representatives of the Parliament.
