ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 18/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u2	Mr President! I present the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The main objective of this proposal is to implement the constitutional right of older people to the necessary care and adequate social and health services. The aim is to ensure high-quality services for the customers of 24-hour care and care for older people and to improve customer and patient safety. . . [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u5	Mr President! It would have been desirable for Minister Kiuru to be present during this debate. He said in his time that binding 0.7's carership is an hour's work and one sentence of the law is enough. Do you know how big the fog was? I'll get back to that. This bill was extremely poorly prepared. It contained problems that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had to deal with, and it contained the eyes and ears of experts, and this also deceived the elderly, their relatives and also the care staff. They had every reason to believe that the SDP case will be handled immediately after the elections in 2019 and will not effectively transfer responsibility to future governments, as is now happening here. The Coalition Party supports additional care providers for the elderly, both for the 24-hour housing service and for home care and home service. The coalition also understands the importance of informal care, and this too should have been looked at in full. But the weakness of this motion is that the government of Prime Minister Sanna Marin first secured the money for everything else and spent the money there. When it was the seniors' turn, there was no money anymore. This was also the case with the pension increase promised to pensioners: the promised EUR 100 is not coming. Now there are no nurses, now there is no funding for hiring nurses. Next year there will be 450 additional nurses. It costs EUR 24 million; EUR 6.5 million has been earmarked. In 2022, 1,300 additional nurses will be needed. This will cost 68 million; The Marin government has set aside a tenth of it, 6.5 million. In 2023 there will be more than 4400 nurses. It costs about EUR 180 million; the money for the beginning of the year is also missing there. And in fact, if today’s about 8 percent of those aged 75 or over are in 24 - hour care, in 2025 more than 11400 will be needed. In 2025, the price tag for this partial change would therefore be around EUR 400 million per year. Not that I'm interested in the left-wing government. Mr President! Minister Krista Kiuru said: one sentence of the law is enough, a few hours of work. I tell you, downtowners, if Minister Kiuru says he'll be here for a meeting in a few hours, it's not worth holding his breath, because this few hours seems to be going up to 36,480 hours, or 1520 days.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u6	Mr President! Valuable old age and quality care belong to everyone, and in this Chamber there is a good will to safeguard them. It is good that we seek ways of securing and increasing the number of carers in the 24-hour care of the elderly, but there are still a few major problems to be resolved in this proposal: firstly, there are not enough carers, secondly, there is no real funding for reform, and thirdly, there is a risk that the reform will lead to a deterioration in home care and a reduction in access to 24-hour care. It is clear that the inclusion of the dimensioning in the law will bring needed additional hands for 24-hour care, and this need is real — it is worth noting — but it alone will not be enough to correct the shortcomings we have seen in the care of the elderly in recent years. At last, the development needs of elderly care must be examined as a whole. There is a particular concern about the situation of home care. The size of personnel proposed by the Government requires 4400 nurses for 24-hour care alone. The performance ignores the fact that the shortage of nurses is already real and, in addition to nursing homes, nurses are needed for home care, which includes more elderly people than is currently the case with 24-hour care, and which according to STM has increased customer numbers over the past two years by 4,000 customers, and is expected to accelerate growth in the coming years. If there are not enough nurses available, home care will be put at a disadvantage. I think that good care must be ensured for every elderly person who needs services, whether he lived in a nursing home or in his own home. Why fix only one corner at the expense of another and not seek a comprehensive solution to ensure the quality of elderly services? In addition to human resources, attention must also be paid to the quality factors and the culture of care. How to deal with an elderly person, how to deal with him, how to respect his sovereignty, whether his needs, hopes and habits are taken into account, how to deal with his family, and how to manage the hospice phase with dignity and care at last is crucial. Every elderly person must be able to count on the need to be cared for, not just as a target of social services, but as a person who feels it. Finally, a more general remark: I wrote a blog this weekend on what links the lengthening of compulsory school life, the age-career dimension and social welfare reform, and I challenged the government to raise the bar on these issues. These reforms combine the objective of resolving the matter with a seemingly clear solution, which can tell the story of a major change and be the solution. Each change can be condensed over a tweet or a cliché. The problem is that the complex problems behind their need will not be solved by such simple solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u7	Mr President! In the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, one of the key objectives of this parliamentary term is to improve the quality of services for the elderly and the position of the elderly. It is very regrettable that the election vow of the government parties on the siting of carers is like the Emperor's new clothes. There is no adequate funding and no action to get care providers. ‘For a short time ‘and’ a sentence’ means
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u18	Now I would remind all the representatives that, although interlude calls are allowed, screaming on top is not.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u19	Mr President! It is said here that the government is not interested in the quality of care for older people, but I would say that this government is now paying more attention to the quality of care than ever. Now, let's get back to the heart of the matter, that is, the human being. Man is a human being who is active in his own life until the end of his life. It should be remembered that an aged person is still just as individual as anyone. Personnel are always at the heart of caring for older people and ensuring their quality, and we have now raised the issue of staff. Are the employees doing well enough? Can they do their job? Do their superiors provide the support they need? That is why the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is now drawing attention to the fact that they receive special attention. When it comes to the care of the elderly and their successful implementation, staff must always be placed at the centre. In spite of the descriptive nature of the word, care should never be passive. Older people are still active actors whose own life is largely dependent on how we view them as a society. Are we going to help them fill a cup of coffee at the table ourselves, or are we going to plant them at the table to wait for it? Every sock or shelled potato picked from the floor itself is self-help and that I can do this myself. That's quality care. In addition to the staff, there is a need to put another large entity in the centre, rehabilitation, and that is what this government is doing. Overall, the multi-professional nature of human resources and its implementation play a key role. Rehabilitation professionals, such as physiotherapists and occupational therapists, help both the elderly themselves and the staff or relatives working with them to enable older people to be active in their everyday lives. Hoiva must guarantee a sense of control over one’s own life until the end of the life cycle. The sustainable implementation of human resources will require precision, and the task will not be easy. It is important, however, and that is why the government now wants to promote this. At the same time, we must ensure that the situation of the other most vulnerable people does not deteriorate. Man must always be placed in the center — the greater the invisible he is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u20	Mr President! The Coalition Party is in favour of a nurseship when it is done in such a way as to ensure the adequacy of the carers and to rest on the basis of sustainable funding. We decision-makers must have responsibility for all elderly people who need care, regardless of where they live. Registrations to the law alone will not be sufficient if there are no nurses available to implement the services or if there is no funding for the reform. This is not so easy, otherwise it would have been done already. This bill only concerns a piece of care for the elderly. More than half of care for the elderly takes place at home by home care. Elderly services should ensure the right of every elderly person to the services he or she needs on an equal and timely basis. The funding provided in the Government Programme for the implementation of the human resources allocation is completely inadequate. The deficit is intended to compensate for the savings made within the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, but no decisions have been taken on these savings. So there's no money. The obligations of the Government's proposal on the management dimension, combined with the unsustainable funding base of the proposal, can at worst lead municipalities to a significant plight in which their finances and other municipal services may be weakened. At the request of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the changes made to the government's proposal are significant in scale and the committee should have consulted experts carefully to implement them. But we were not allowed to listen to the experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u23	Mr President! Current Minister Mr Kiuru claimed during the last parliamentary term that this is the addition of one sentence to the law and a few hours of work. Even then, the Assembly stated that this is indeed not the case, but that we should look at a whole which also takes into account the needs of home care, the need for informal care support and funding, and the availability of staff. In the run-up to the elections, all parties other than the Coalition Party gave the impression that this is an easy job and can be dealt with in no time. It is not a great comfort to us now that we were alone in the right, when, of course, in the elections this honesty of ours was not appreciated in any way. On the contrary. Now we have the government's proposal and the changes made by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health with regard to its entry into force, based on the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which, with such a graduated entry into force, is better than the one originally proposed by the government. The final result is, therefore, that the law actually comes into force on April Fool's Day, a few weeks before the parliamentary elections. However, steps towards this are to be taken, and that is a good thing. Mr Lindén has had difficulties in understanding what has been said, so let us be very clear that the assembly is in favour of carerisation, and this support means that it would have been better if this carership, 0.7, could have been seen as part of a package in which the needs of home care, the need for informal care support, the availability of staff and funding would have been at the same time at the table. This didn't happen to the government parties. It is therefore your duty now to demonstrate, and during this period, that both the funding and the availability of staff are in order when the law is intended to enter into force in 2023 in full. If, by then, you are not able to allocate sufficient staff if you are not able to provide sufficient funding, then there is a real risk that the staff will in practice be recruited on the home care side, for which the government's proposal also warns, and that the funding will not be sufficient, which means that the municipalities will be in unprecedented difficulties. Now I ask the representatives of the government parties when the government ministers are not here when they are in the negotiations: is it still intended that all this will be financed from the STM framework, as has been suggested so far? Is it really to be believed that this money will be taken from digitalisation, Kela and elsewhere? It would be good to have an answer to this. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u24	Mr President! It has proved incredibly difficult to get a nurse’s degree in law. For the past ten years, it has been under the influence of several governments. They haven't helped the distress screams of the elderly and the loved ones, nor have they helped the horror stories of the media. Ninety per cent of customers in enhanced service housing are memory ill. It is quite incomprehensible that these most vulnerable Finns with memory problems should be treated in this way. There is a black hole in the Finnish civilised society and it is care for the elderly. Now, however, we have in our hands a presentation on the nurse’s composition. It was not finished in an hour or two or at all as promised. Mr President! Before the parliamentary elections, all parties were fondly unanimous that 0.7 must be brought into the law and quickly. This government has now been inventing this proposal for a whole year and has produced a proposal in which 0.7 will enter into force in 1.4.2023 in three years' time, just before the next parliamentary elections. I can't believe you're shaking. [The Group of Independent Finns: Incredible!] The reason for the motion is that we do not have enough nurses. That is not true. We have tens of thousands of professional nurses who are doing something completely different than what they are trained for. The problem is not that we do not have nurses, but that they run away from nursing. The nursing work is hard both physically and mentally, but it is still very poorly paid. Mr President, the massive training of new nurses for the lack of nurses is like a job for fools. The fools built a windowless cabin and tried to carry light inside in sacks. So, was there a light? Well, of course not — neither will our nurse. So the problem is not that there are no nurses, but that they run away to other jobs. This is the problem that should now be addressed. The reason for the phasing-in of the proposal is also that there is no money for it. This is just amazing — almost 20 billion dollars was found just now for corona subsidies, but the 250 million dollars needed for a nurse’s appointment are not found. Mr President! The True Finns claim that the size of 0.7
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u27	Mr President! The Finns of Peru think that we need to get the nurseship right soon, but what is the government doing? What's the government doing? The government does not want it to come into force until 2023.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u32	Mr President! The public is concerned about the government's intention to finance a carer's allowance for private health care by reducing health insurance contributions, thus increasing the medical bill. In this case, sick elderly people who need, for example, an ophthalmologist are made to pay for the nursing allowance. [Aki Lindén’s interlude] I appeal to Minister Blomqvist, whose title mentions equality, saves the terrible Kela in the Marin government and saves women. In the public sector, there will be no gynecology available without a general medical examination and a referral from a specialist in gynaecology, and the government will weaken the position of women in order to finance the care measure. Now, if ever it is worth asking on-call feminists what they think about the government's intention to undermine gender equality. Even the Greens have forgotten the Power magazine's message that patriarchal society makes everyone feel sick. I am also concerned about the situation in the municipalities, which need to find the necessary nurses and institutional administrators to carry out indirect work in addition to nursing work. 120 nurses and a total of 4400 new nurses are missing from the 0.5 dimension alone. There's no money, there's no nurses. Over the next ten years, the number of over 75-year-olds will reach 800,000. Municipalities have problems with both demographic and economic dependency ratios. There is also a shortage of nurses in growth centres, so the migration loss municipalities are in real trouble.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u33	Mr President! This is an important and serious matter, and although it is certainly nice to use good rhetorical tricks here as such — and in substance I agree with Mr Junnila and worry about where the funding for this reform can be found — I must say that, exceptionally, I also think that neither here nor in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is being taken seriously enough of the criticism that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has rightly expressed. For example, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has considered it necessary for the Government to closely monitor the cost implications of the proposed dimension and, if necessary, take the necessary measures to implement the financial principle. There have been statements of this kind in the opposition to the Assembly that Parliament would require the same from the Government, and these too have not been accepted as part of the official report of the committee, which I consider to be very special. In general, statements of the type that require, for example, the effects of adequate funding or of any reform in general, in order to be able to make corrections or possible sanctions in the field, are generally required by common accord, and in many cases also take into account the views of the opposition, as this should be a matter of common concern for all of us. Surely no one in this Chamber wants us to carry out something that has not been financed in practice? If no funding has been allocated to it, it will in practice result in the funding being cut from somewhere else. This is, in fact, what this proposal is based on at the moment, i.e. funding will be taken from within the STM, for example by cutting Kela compensations, as has been pointed out in these previous speeches. Well, what does that mean? Clearly, the government has the idea that in the future social and health services will also be very much based on the production of public services. There's nothing wrong with that. The problem is that if the private is not an option of any kind when Kela compensations are completely removed from it, then in practice public service production will face pressure that is impossible with current resources, or even with the resources that have been calculated for the future. The Coalition Party has also objected — which, in my opinion, sums up these concerns to a very large extent — that Parliament would require the Government to bring before Parliament an overall reform of the Act on Elderly Services, which ensures that services are equal and better accessible to all older people in need of services, and that this reform would ensure that changes to a single service form do not undermine the quality or availability of services elsewhere. Is this not precisely what the chairman of the committee, Mr Salmon, said here that this should be the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u34	Mr President! The size of the population of older people 0.7 is in itself a good thing, but I think there are three key problems. The first is that this only addresses the situation of the elderly in 24-hour care. Now, if we look at statistics, according to THL’s follow-up, there are about 100,000 clients in elderly services, more than half of whom are in home care and more than 40 percent in 24-hour care, and there are many more who are carers for their immediate family, usually their spouse. And this law really only tackles one group of elderly people who need care and care. In our opinion, at the meeting, we would have preferred to have needed an overall reform of the old-age service law, which ensures access to services and sufficient number of carers and staff, regardless of where these elderly people live and what kind of services they use. Mr President! The second problem involved is the number of nurses. It has been estimated that, once this is fully in force in due course, there will be a need of 4400 nurses for 24-hour treatment alone — and this is a problem because we are already in a shortage of nurses. In this regard, Mr Juuso of the Finns Party has just said that we do not have a shortage of nurses in Finland as such, but they do not work in the services of the elderly and other similar services. This is certainly true, but new nurses are also needed. I recently visited the schools in Espoo, two places, one of which train local nurses and the other nurses, and there I learned that people who are studying today do not want to go to care for the elderly, and this is partly due to the heavy work that is being done there, but also, of course, to the level of pay. So it is very important to consider the overall picture of treatment and also the leadership of how the work is organised and so on, how it is made attractive to people. But in any case, the fact is that we have a problem with the availability of these nurses, and at this point we will probably have to resort to the application of nurses from the home care side, and I do not think that this is fair to the elderly who are there in home care. Mr President! The third is this funding. I tried to raise these financial problems during the discussion of the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but unfortunately the government parties completely refused to do so. So the idea is that in 2024,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u35	Mr President! The state of the elderly services has raised widespread concern in recent years. In recent years, even politicians on the right side of the labour-intensive social services sector have been shocked, especially by the harsh way in which the multinational carers beat profits. Private care giants have forged profits at the expense of the well-being of the elderly by compromising the number of staff and thus the quality of care. This unscrupulous gimmick stops now, as long as the new staffing dimension is also monitored effectively. Among the most glaring examples of profit pursuit have been the neglect of the care homes of Esperi Care, which had deliberately neglected the quality of care and ghost care practices were part of the company’s systematic activities. As a result, in April 2019 Valvira issued a national decree to Esperi Care to remedy the shortcomings and shortcomings of all its services in the care of the elderly. The supervision order was the first of its kind in Finland. Indeed, at the end of the last parliamentary term, there was a demand that the worrying state of elderly services should be addressed. The Left Alliance is pleased that the Marin government is finally carrying out this reform, which has been held back by the Coalition Party in particular for almost a decade. Increasing the size of personnel to 0.7 professionals per client improves the care and safety of older people. A statutory high level of staffing is a long-awaited solution to the crisis that has shaken the care of the elderly since last year. It is true that there are common concerns about the status of elderly services over this proposal. Where do we get more professionals? And how can we keep professional experts in their current jobs? Many workers in the elderly services are exhausted under heavy labour and low wages. That is why it is important that we remember to emphasise the working conditions, the issue of pay and the issue of well-being at work of women-dominated elderly services on an ongoing basis, but it is also important to remember that the government has just made a fine suggestion that these training places should also be substantially increased, and in that respect the government also interferes with the adequacy of professionals in the provision of services for the elderly, that there will certainly also be more care in the neighbourhood. In addition, attention must be paid to the concerns of the assembly as to how the home care of the elderly will be. When I have been there quite a long time in municipal politics in Helsinki,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u36	Mr President! The Christian Democrats have been in favour of raising nurseship as quickly as possible and have followed with confusion the resignation and squirming of the government on this key election promise. The hospice will now finally come into force step by step so that 0.7 will come into effect on April Fool’s Day 2023, that is, just before the next election. Somehow it seems that this choosing of April Fool's Day for this full date of entry into force does show that this election vow had indeed fed some kind of April Fool to the people, because there has been some vagueness, could it be said, in the implementation of this carership by the government? This was not a job for a few hours, but we have seen that it has indeed been a great pain to find funding, and now that, indeed, the funding and the nurses have not been able to bring it up by the government, then this staggered implementation will have to take place. In the referral debate, the opposition already suspected that this funding would be a major problem, and there were quite a few committees that wanted to hear more about how that funding was going to be implemented, and it seemed strange that these various requests for clarifications from the government parties were frequently rejected. We are dealing with this legislation here because this is an amending budget law, but if you look at that amending budget, then you have to say that this funding problem is not going to be solved, even though at the same time we are dealing with the biggest amending budget of all time and hundreds of millions of people feel enough there and here. The Government has stated that this funding will be applied for from digitalisation and Kela compensations. Well, this Kela case in particular feels bad because we know, as has been pointed out here in a number of good speeches, that the reduction of Kela payments is the most painful hit by those low-income people who have a special medical need and who need a specialist to see a specialist. They don't have the money to pay for it when the Kela payments get smaller. The Christian Democrats also want to express their concern that, as the need for 24-hour care grows and the need for staff increases, this would not endanger the resources of home care. Of course, in such a major reform it would be important to look at the whole, and the importance of informal care is also one that should be identified. We have people who live at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u37	Mr President! It is great that we are finally able to discuss the government's proposal for binding care for the elderly. We've been waiting a long time for this. Nurseship should have been legalized years ago, but as we can see, there is a difference between governments. Now we're finally getting somewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u40	Mr President! It is time to note that the government ate its promises, the government also ate its election vows. First there was the pensioner’s centenary, and now there was the nurse’s allowance. I know you promised me a nurse's appointment, but 0.5 is just as much as useless. I've been doing 25 years of nursing work, 14 years of night work, a week of work, a week off, two shifts, three shifts, and I know what 0.5 in a practical field of work means. The fact that the government is now staggering this much-spoken nurseship — this year 0,5, next year 0,55, next year 0,6 — and far away is the hope that in 23 it will be 0.7 — will bring little help to the nursing field. These are precisely the same figures, 0.5, and in fact I disagree that the recommendations have not been followed. They've been quite well followed. It's just a small fraction that's ignored these recommendations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u45	Mr President! I do not know whether Mr Juvo was embarrassed or whether he also thanked me in his speech, but this is progressing. So much I want the representative to correct that these have not been the government's promises you said at the beginning: they have been the promises of a government party.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u50	Mr President! As you listen to this discussion, it seems that some have the greatest anxiety about fulfilling the election promises of other parties. Personally, I'm not very worried about it, not even about my own promises when they didn't come very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u67	Mr President! I thought I'd wait for this buzzing to end here, but now that it's gone quiet, that's it. Thank you for that. It was very pleasant to have the floor after the moderate speech by the chairman of the committee, Mr Salmon. The debate started with a great deal of emotion on this issue, and this is a very important and major reform now, and I understand that there are, of course, such pressures. I myself thought that I am not going to go into this opposition-government debate at all, because the time available is so short, but I am going to raise one point. There was talk of Kela compensation, a few representatives, including Mr Junnila. What happened to Kela compensations during the government where the Finns of Finland, although the Blues later, had the place of Minister of Health Insurance and the Minister of Finance in the assembly? The compensation for dental care Kela fell from 120 million to 40 million, the medical compensation from 80 million to 50 million, and the fees for research and treatment from 60 million to 40 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u72	Mr President! It is true that the coalition continues to create images here with tenacity. A party that has been opposed to a binding nurseship for more than a decade still cannot admit that it has been wrong all these years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u77	Mr President! This spring has indeed been very heavy for over 70-year-olds. They have not been able to meet their loved ones or go to hobbies that are important for coping. It can be said that exceptional circumstances have made the spring of this group particularly challenging and difficult. That is why I am pleased that we can give good news to the elderly today when we are dealing with binding human resources that are absolutely essential for the quality of care and thus also for the implementation of human rights for the elderly. I really hope that binding nurseship will also make sense in the basic service business. As the case of Esperi Care, for example, showed, in business logic, the pursuit of big profits comes first and the good care and valuable old age that are important for the realisation of the human rights of the elderly is far behind. Now that there is also a private early childhood education chain Touhula once again made headlines, it would be good to have a proper discussion of how business thinking is compatible with the provision of basic services. The problem of elderly care is not only on the private side, but there are particular problems with the service production of large profit-oriented chains. In both early childhood education and care of the elderly, the wage level of the staff is lower than in the public sector. In these women-dominated sectors, the move to the private side does not, therefore, bring an improvement in the pay package — on the contrary, profits will be torn down by further trampling on the low wages of women-dominated sectors. It is therefore important to consider how the basic service business affects the gender pay gap. The combination is also that the staff also have to perform non-care-related tasks, such as cleaning and cooking. Human resources are also an historic decision for employees and improve working conditions in the female-dominated sector. The measurement applies to medical personnel who are directly involved in customer work. An adequate separate resource must be reserved for indirect tasks such as cooking and cleaning. The ability of nurses to cope with their valuable work must be supported and they have the right to do their work well, and the size of their work is thus much better than it is at present. For us in the Left Alliance, staffing has been a long-term goal, and we are not taking this decision too soon. Our care of the elderly has already suffered far too much damage because it has not been able to guarantee valuable old age and adequate care for our elderly. We all know that the need for care will only increase as the population ages in the coming years. The Coalition Party has been trying to slow down this major reform for almost a decade. This government, on the other hand, has taken action and brought the elderly
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u78	Mr President! This is an historic day: we have finally received a report on the role of carers in Parliament. However, history on this matter is not honorable. Some of us remember the reports by Valvira and the Ombudsman on the situation of 24-hour care for the elderly a few years ago. The reports were hard to read. However, there was a clear common feature: insufficient personnel, lack of skills, staff fatigue and poor management. After that, Parliament adopted the Act on Elderly Services, which, however, remained a problem because the staffing dimension was not approved by the Act at the request of the Coalition Party. Finally, the situation escalated again in the winter of 2019 when the neglect of care for the elderly became public, and then Minister Saarikko launched the investigation of services for the elderly and took emergency measures to improve services for the elderly. Mr President! It is great that the current government has decided to correct the problems associated with staffing and to correct the minimum size of staff to the level of the law and thus improve legal protection for the elderly and the elderly. We all need to be confident that we will be taken care of when we are no longer able to do so. You shouldn't be afraid of old age. The Government's proposal now introduces a uniform system for assessing service needs, RAI, which helps to demonstrate the needs of customers and thus the necessary human resources. The personnel allocation must take into account good management, personnel competence, adequacy, versatility and properly targeted division of labour. Now this has been taken into account in the bill. These are key guarantees of quality in both 24-hour care and home care. The availability of adequately skilled personnel will be a major challenge. This is why it is important that the government invests in the training of the necessary staff at the same time. The report has also clarified access by phasing or staggering and increasing the share of state aid paid to municipalities, in line with the addition of the Constitutional Committee. This brings clarity and ambition to the proposal. This will allow municipalities and hospital districts to set themselves targets and measures to achieve the minimum size of personnel required for the period of 0.7 years 2023 and for other staff gradually by the spring of 2023.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u79	Mr President! As has been pointed out in many speeches, this bill certainly does not solve all the challenges we face in the care of the elderly today and in the future, but I think it is very important that this important bill comes into force, as the chairman of the committee pointed out, right now 1.10. 1.10. The bill comes into force, which is a very important element of the fact that from then on only that immediate customer work will be included in the nursing qualification, and already this change will bring a great deal of relief to everyday life and also reduce the burden of work. When we move from here towards spring 2023, we must also take into account that during this transition period less than 0.7 carers may be undersized only when it is possible to ensure that customer safety and the quality of services can be guaranteed in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Act on Elderly Services. This, too, is very important here as a whole. The resources of home care will also be secured. However, the government saw it as vitally important that this carership be brought forward as quickly as possible, because, as is being raised in this Chamber, this is so important that every party believes that this carership must be brought into force as soon as possible. As far as the attractiveness of nursing is concerned, I fully agree that this alone will not solve the situation. Caretakership does make working conditions easier and lowers the workload, which makes the nursing work more attractive, but it alone is not enough. We need much more than that, and its work must continue so that in the future we can get nurses to look after us too when we become elderly. I am still a little concerned about how this debate makes you feel so much, even though every Member of Parliament raises the point that there is no party that opposes this sort of nurseship.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u80	Mr President! It has been a year and a half since Tarja Parkatti, a nearby nurse, brought up long - known problems in the care of the elderly. Parkatti, who worked at a private service house in Kristiinankaupunki, Ostrobothnia, took a big personal risk and reported his own job to the Regional State Administrative Authority. The unit was closed as a matter of urgency and an important public debate was launched, culminating now. During that debate it has become clear that the coalition as the only party in the country is opposed to better care for older people and better working conditions for carers. The common problems encountered by the private service house Kristiina in the care of the elderly have been a burden for workers and elderly people for too long. That's why we promised to write down 0.7 in the law, and today that promise will be brought to an end. This means over 4,400 new nurses for care for the elderly and nearly 180 million additional funding for care. This is an important choice of values that previous governments have not wanted to make. The reform will enter into force gradually so that the increase in staff can be implemented, inter alia, through an increase in training. Hopefully, better working conditions will also attract nurses who have already left the sector back to nursing work. Next, the Act on Elderly Services is to be updated in accordance with the Government Programme to better cover the part of home and informal care. It is amazing that some want to contrast these different forms of treatment. High-quality care is a fundamental right that must be safeguarded for everyone as necessary. That is also the starting point of this law. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Guzenina, who, at the beginning of the last decade, raised this important reform and proposed that the nurseship be recorded in the law. But now that the coalition has been brought to the end of the opposition, it will only be achieved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u81	Mr President! You might want to look at this big picture again. In recent years, Finland’s elderly care provider, like most public activities, has been in a constantly deteriorating career due to changes in age structure and dependency ratios, and in this development Finland has not been able to react in the same way as other Nordic countries, and that is why there is so much scarcity everywhere and we have such problems. At the time, just as Mr Ikonen said here in the early part of the debate, the fact that it is only the law that needs to be rated without actually taking care of those resources does not solve these problems. In particular, this original government proposal was almost as it was done with the idea of a "fuck-all mentality" when it comes to how, however, when laws are enacted, we have to take care of funding and implementation. Please read the statement by the Ministry of Finance, which, however, politely suggests that such reforms should actually be carried out within the framework. Well, now that after the intervention of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has had to take at least a little account of these realities, of course this has gone for the better, but that basic thing is not going anywhere. Our public finances can only be strengthened by increasing employment and prioritising spending, and this, like the attitude of modern show wrestling, which I think the government parties here have shown, is an extremely sad feature of Finnish politics that does not really care where these resources come from, does not care whether there is money and whether there is staff and does not even want to talk about it. When the Committee on Constitutional Affairs raises the point that this is likely to undermine the resources of home care, then the normal, traditional, social-democratic, vertebrate policy would be to try to solve this problem, to think about how to re-prioritize, increase employment, perhaps raise taxes, go and know. On the other hand, the government parties are content to ‘resolve by ‘this declaration’ the committee requires that adequate staff for home care be Well, it can't be with such statements. If you have now reached this line, then you could solve climate change by saying that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection requires global warming to only one degree in all circumstances. That would be about as ethical and as constructive as this terrible speech by Maria Guzenina here. These resources and the real resources of Finnish public finances are at the end of the day, not what kind of things are written into the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u82	However, the name ‘Deputy Guzenina’ is used when speaking of representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u83	Värderade Talman! Vi har i flera år talat om att åldringsvården i Finland borde förbättras, men inga större åtgärder har gjorts. Uppgifterna som nådde oss för ett par år sedan om vanvård och utslitna vårdare i flera äldreboenden var starttskottet för att ta den är frågan på allvar. En tillräckligt stor personal på enheterna är a och o för att servicen ska ha en grundmöjlighet att vara kvalitativ. Det är viktigt att regeringen hållit fast vid sitt löfte om att förbättra åldringsvården och att vi i social- och älsovårdsutskottet haft öjlighet att behandla lagförslaget trots de ovanliga förhållanden som coronasituationen fört med sig. Betankandet över lagen om en personaldimensionering på 0,7 vårdare per boende i äldreomsorgens dugnetruntvård är ett viktigt steg framåt för en humanare äldrevård i vårt land. För att bygga upp en trygg och högklassig vård inom våra äldreboenden behövs det förutom ett tillräckligt antal vårdare också ett bra leftarskap och trivsamma fungerande utrymmen att dels bo i och dels att jobba i. För att säkerstalla att vi i framtiden har personal och vårdare inom äldreomsorgen måste vi se till att det finns fler utbildningsplatser och ett motiverande jobb att se fram emot. Här har vi ännu mycket att göra.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u84	Mr President! Today, there has been a rather emotional debate on this issue on both sides. I personally think that when feelings are right, it is an important matter. Similarly, as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I think that there was certainly no member there, either from the opposition or from the government party, that this issue is being underestimated. The fact that the law actually comes into force on 1 October 2020 has been raised in this debate by the chairman of the committee, Mr Salmon. But there have also been speakers who wanted to highlight April Fool's Day in 1.4.2023. In fact, reference has been made to the fact that this is a government April Fool's prank. In my opinion, using such terms on such a serious matter is rather sad to hear. In no way is this a joke of any kind. I myself would think that such April Fools could have been made on many, many April Fools ’ days before this. It has been said that both the elderly and the nurses will be betrayed. These are some pretty tough claims we've heard today. This is certainly not in itself a problem created by this government. As has been said before, we have lost tens of thousands of nurses in this area. They have gone to other countries to work, they have gone from the industry to other jobs because the care sector is currently not attractive and it is not a pleasant job. There is a lack of appreciation and low pay and many other things. However, the objective of this Government proposal is precisely to ensure the quality of services for the customers of 24-hour care and care for the elderly and to improve customer and patient safety. We all remember the situation at the beginning of last year, which has been referred to here as the flagrant violations of patient safety in nursing institutions. The sad thing is that things have been allowed to go this far and then wake up afterwards. There has been a discussion about how to secure the number of nurses both in the home service and in 24-hour care. There are many solutions to consider, and that is a responsible policy. As Mr Vartiainen said, all these things are really under consideration. That is not going to be an easy task, I do not want to go anywhere to say it, but steps have now been taken to get this thing right at last.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u85	Mr President! Personally, I value our Finns very much, and although I am not terribly anxious to increase taxes, this is something that I would even be prepared to increase taxes. The only thing that annoys me most in this whole case is the way this matter was discussed before the elections and the way this matter has been dealt with since then. The only thing that was quite clear at the time was the 0.7 that would get this thing right, although then, in principle, everyone, especially the professionals in the industry, had to know that this is not necessarily the way it is going to be. And the time continuum that is now coming and, in a way, this will be transferred practically to the future, even to the neck of the next government, is what is now the most hardening thing for us, because I have one reason, for example, for trying to reach this Parliament, to put an end to such vain, blasphemous speeches in this Chamber — or, in particular, to enter this Chamber — from that market. I therefore appeal to you to get rid of this kind of throw, which collects off-put points with that May Day satas or carers' measurements, which has not even been thought about, how to deal with them, in the future, and actually tell the people about realistic measures and realistic possibilities, and then take care of what has been promised from there. Here, clearly, hardly anyone can see with clear eyes and say that this went as planned, as promised at the time in the marketplaces. I hope, however, that this government will do enough about this. The Finnish elderly have earned it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u86	Mr President! There has been a good debate here, and this is an important issue on which Parliament is now deciding. I am not a specific expert on the details, but the concern that I still have in particular on this issue is actually related to what Mr Rehn-Kivi has just said. He put it this way that the government wants to make provision for a nurse's appointment, even though it costs money, and indeed, when I look at this government proposal now in the form that the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health puts it on the basis of an honest opinion from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the government wants to deliver a promise worth money without paying for it with money. And this contradiction will be before us in this Chamber this autumn and probably also next year's autumn and the autumn following. This is also a serious place in relation to what Mr Laakso has just said about the fact that this is still at the level of loose speech, until the money for training, the money for nurses and the nurses themselves who actually redeem this promise is there. And this is not, of course, a question of any small penny that can be thrown out of the additional budget in the normal way, otherwise there would certainly have been proper additions. It is a question of the fact that, when this staggered model is now to be regulated in accordance with the committee's report, the government is, in a cumulative manner, lacking almost EUR 300 million in the framework of this parliamentary term, which is required in accordance with this government's proposal — 275 million, I think, is the exact estimate. And especially then, in 2023 alone, EUR 126 million is missing, without which this is an inflated promise that will not be fulfilled. And the 2023 still happens to be the year in which the government has now put its hope that the public finances will then also be balanced. In any case, you have a situation in which the expenditure level of this year should be reduced by EUR 6 billion next year, so that even the spending limits decision can be implemented — the spending limits decision, which was discussed here two weeks ago. So there are some pressures, even those that are hard to fill with the dimensions of Vanhanen Mat. And here's the point where it's not easy, we all know, to get the money out of the VM in cumulative terms. Good luck with that, because it is an unfair solution, if it turns into home care surgery, it is an unfair solution if it turns into Kela compensation cuts, and it is particularly unfair to keep the entire social and health care system loose because of the desire to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u87	Mr President! Undoubtedly, the law of nursing will be one of the achievements of this government’s history books. The reshaping of the nursing system started with the need to bring about a change in the state of the health care sector. As we all know, the reasons for the neglect of the elderly care units the other winter were not the nurses, but the lack of nurses. This new carerisation will aim to ensure that there will be a sufficient number of carers in both private and public care units in the future. In my own mind, the greatest uncertainty about meeting the new nursing qualification raises doubts as to whether we will have enough students who are interested in the care sector. I'm sure we all understand that just a new dimension does not solve the problem of a lack of nurses. The problem is also more complex because many thousands of nurses are being trained in the sector every year, but on average every third person stops their studies before they graduate or moves to another sector after they graduate. When training one local nurse costs EUR 27000, there will be a loss of tens of millions of euros per year. The Finnish Federation of Basic and Local Nurses is therefore pleased that the psychological selection tests were restored. Although as many as 5,000 new carers will be needed in the future in order to be able to fully deploy the carer size by 2023, it makes no sense to use the resources available to anyone in this sector. For its part, this can increase the attractiveness of work when not everyone can become a nurse. There is a lot of potential for a new nurseship. At best, it really increases the number of carers to an adequate level, giving the nurse more time per elderly person. This would be a significant increase in quality for the elderly, the carer and the caring family. Caregivers’ satisfaction at work and remaining in the sector would be improved, and the burden of work and absenteeism would be reduced. The division of labour between immediate and indirect care workers would clarify job descriptions in care units. However, as much as a new nurseship would bring improvements to the current situation, the reform must not be done by undermining home care. For older people to live in their homes for as long as possible, they need their own professionals. Finally, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Lohe, and the previous representative, Mr Vehviläinen, the current President, and the members of the Committee for their work on bringing forward an important reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u88	President! This proposal on humanisation in intensive institutional and long-term institutional care is a very important proposal, and this is a very important debate. So far, the dimension has been guided by a recommendation based on this 0.5 which we all know. However, we know that these recommendations have not fully worked. Unfortunately, these shortcomings and the comments made by the supervisory authorities have been seen and have also been flouted by public opinion. This has perhaps been a troublesome discussion in that regard, because it hides the fact that nursing work in Finland is done in a very high moral and classy way. President! Now, however, more human hands are to be brought in to safeguard valuable and human age. Therefore, 0.7 employees' personalised customers must be respected by 1.4.2023 at the latest. Of course, this increase in human resources will be done gradually because municipalities and joint municipal boards and other, i.e. service providers, have the opportunity to prepare themselves for this significant staffing need, increased costs and the availability of staff in general. We cannot compromise the objectives of reducing welfare and health inequalities and, in general, increasing the equality of citizens. I believe that our common picture of the situation, from both the government and the opposition, should be that people should be able to invest in them. This same logic is used, for example, in the fourth additional budget for training. With these we are making a future; with these we are building a human future. President! Of course, this mere gradual increase in staffing does not mean that the problems will be eliminated and completely wiped out. Human well-being is more than 0.7. However, it makes it possible for an ageing person to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u89	Mr President! I have been a little surprised that there have been several occasions on the left side of the Chamber, and several speakers have repeated that the assembly would not care about good care for the elderly — quite the contrary. I'm gonna put this back in a little bit. If we look back years, then, at the time, the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, Paula Risikko, of the then Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, put in place the preparation of the Act on Elderly Services — or at the time of the last government, now if we look at this whole, then the government, in fact, in which the Coalition Party sat down, set in motion this overall reform of the services of the elderly, in which we also stated before the elections that we consider that we consider a good measure to be part of this whole and the reform of the Act on Elderly Services, which also includes and takes into account this talked-about home care, informal care and then the updating of these quality recommendations. So here is clearly a false understanding of it. Similarly, we demand that the dimension should not only be seen as a unit-specific average, but should be taken into account for care, and this evaluation procedure has now also been brought into the law in exactly the same way as that applied for by the assembly. There has also been talk here of these financial assumptions. The macro-level representative Vartiainen here made a good point. There has also been talk of Kela compensations. I would also mention that there is now the assumption that municipalities would cut off digitalisation and purchasing services. Digitalisation, knowing the situation in this municipal economy, municipalities are forced to cut in any case and a lot, which means that there is really nothing to cut — or to enhance digitalisation — and then, on the other hand, if you look at these purchasing services, they are very staff-intensive. If we are looking at this when someone here spoke about the criticism of private service providers, it is true that there have indeed been glaring flaws, and certainly none of us will excuse them, but they will not be corrected by cutting off more of the buying services. Above all, I would draw attention to the fact that this is not an ideological question as to who is providing those services. We have good and bad service providers in both private, organisational and public actors. Similarly, good and bad practices do not always correlate with this dimension, but there are many other factors. Now, this public debate is rather concentrated on those units where there have been irregularities, and there are indeed disproportionate situations which cannot be accepted, which must be corrected, but if we want the direction in which the services should be developed, then we should be talking more about those units that have been successful. Then we talked about this entry into force on 1.10 and 0.5, that it will come this year, but the fact is that the size is already higher in the majority of places. The main change is that this now distinguishes between indirect and direct work. There are many good things about disfellowshipping, of course, but the original government proposal had such a form that many with the customer
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u90	Mr President! As I said in the first speech, one of the main points of this parliamentary term, in the opinion of the Assembly's parliamentary group, is that we can eliminate the shortcomings in the care of the elderly in Finland. We want to bring the whole reform of the old-age service law before Parliament in such a way that we can deal with it during this parliamentary term. The Old Age Service Act was once prepared on the initiative of the Coalition Party. It was initiated by the National Coalition Party, then Minister Risikko. And when it has also been estimated that that law has not sufficiently ensured that every Finnish elderly person, when needed, would receive adequate care and adequate services, that is why the Coalition Party was proactive when we were a government party during the last parliamentary term. We took the initiative that the reform of the Act on Elderly Services was launched. The starting point was to look at all the elderly, regardless of where they live, what the form of service is. We wanted to take care of the hard work, the family carers doing important work, their loved ones. We understood the problem of home care. A working group was set up to carry out this work, and it is now completely in the dark when that proposal will be brought to Parliament. It would have been justified for Minister Kiuru to have been here to answer questions, especially since it was not possible for the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to get an answer to these questions. I hope that if any of the members of the government party know, they will tell us if we can get that bill here in Parliament. The Coalition Party has taken responsibility for all the elderly. In our alternative budget this year, we proposed EUR 150 million in such a way that nurses would be added not only to 24-hour care but also to home care and family carers. This showed that money can also be found if there is a will to do so. I have to pick up on what Mr Mykkänen was talking about here. We are living in a year when the government has taken on billions of dollars of debt. There have been billions of billions of dollars of money spent on many good targets in the budget line, yet this carership did not get the money it would have required to have this dimensioned. In what way, then, when the Prime Minister has also said that 2023 will be brought into line with the economy, how will this carership be able to fit in? In other words, I hope that you will now consider the way in which the budget debate in autumn will find solutions to the fact that the money will indeed come into the services of the elderly. And it was rather insulting for us MEPs and carers with a nurse background to tell you that the carer’s appointment has been decided, but you forgot that if you hire more carers, then the carers will also need the wages. It was a good thing that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs knocked this motion out of the Constitutional Treaty. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u91	Mr President! The National Coalition Party has objected to this law on carers' representation. So we are not opposed to the carership measure, but we have put forward constructive proposals on how this should be improved and how the committee should have already corrected this matter so that we can have a better proposal here, and also in what way we can secure the services in the future. So it is a question of having an adequate financial basis, of having staff for those services, and of ensuring that we do not turn our backs on other elderly people who need care, and just look at one corner of the whole. That is why it is important to bring the Act on Elderly Services to Parliament as a whole for decision, and it is great that Paula Risikko, when she was Minister of Basic Services, got this Act on services for the elderly in motion. It's good to update it now. We proposed in committee, among other things, that the old-age service law should be brought to the decision of Parliament during this parliamentary term, but it was not accepted. The government parties stopped it. We also wanted to bring forward a statement that Parliament will be asked to take the necessary steps to resolve the problem of home care providers and to ensure that the personnel size of 24-hour care does not jeopardise the availability of home care services. This was also opposed by the government parties. We also wanted the Government to bring before Parliament the necessary measures to ensure adequate support and services for family carers and carers. This, too, was not supported by the government parties. We proposed that a study be produced during 2022 on the impact of the government proposal on the overall range of services for the elderly and on the availability of staff. No, you can't ask for an explanation. In addition, the Board of Directors must provide immediate solutions to ensure staff adequacy that this staggered model also works in practice. No, this wasn't allowed. We suggested that Parliament would require the government to present how it intends to finance the years 2021 to 2024. No, the government parties did not support it. We also suggested that this funding should be seen as part of the multiannual spending limits procedure, that we should be able to secure those services for the elderly in the future. No, this was not supported by the government parties. We suggested that Kela allowances are not weakened so that children and women are not deprived of the opportunity to visit a gynecologist, ear doctor, ophthalmologist.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u92	Mr President! Yes, I have to say, for so many years now, that this sitting has contained a great many misconceptions. It has been argued here that the assembly would not be in favour of the development of care for the elderly or of care measures, and it was also given quite incorrect information. I myself would like to tell you now that I have been a health care teacher for over a decade, that I have been in care of the elderly, that I specialise in care of the elderly and that I have also been a minister who put in the old age service law at the time. I remember when there was always a great deal of criticism from the other side about the old-age service law, that there should not be any age-specific law, but I took it forward. Then it happened that when I suggested that it should become a strong right to receive those services, it was not wanted. It is worth all of you to look at those minutes, also to look at the ministries’ minutes, which is why the obligation was reduced. And what do we have the most critical point in the care of the elderly in Finland? Certainly one is this dimensioning, certainly, because we have a lot of glaring events that even mops have been counted. I'm sure there are some, but we also have a lot of things that are all right, and nobody remembers them. These can be found both on the public and private side. But what we need to fix is to correct the need for older people to have a stronger right to those services. The Old Age Services Act once sought to ensure the adequacy and quality of elderly services and to improve the position and well-being of older people. However, when I came to power, the law had been watered down, despite the fact that I presented stronger rights to it. Look in the mirror, you who here throw rocks at others. You guys look in the mirror first. Strong rights were not created for the elderly. The services are now committed to the budget, i.e. if the municipality does not have the money, the services may not be provided even if the need has been established. It takes that service plan, a service plan made by experts, and that it is mandatory. Only then will we be able to talk here in the breast rotting that the services of the elderly are in order. This strengthening of rights is everything. What do you do with quality services if they are not available? The emergency service must be provided in three months at the latest. After all, man may have died by then. Nothing other than the care guarantee needs to be tightened and stronger rights, it has a stone base. Now our foot is crumbling.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u93	Mr President! A little confused, I have been following this afternoon's debate on this nursing appointment, while we are all able to recognise that this is an historic day. For years it has been said that care for the elderly needs to be put in order, and one of the key factors has been to define this sort of care, and now the government is doing it with a clear and realistic programme so that it can be implemented in a smart way. For one reason or another, the opposition has been forced to find arguments in which, in some speeches, it almost devalued this remarkable achievement, despite the fact that this is a common cause for all of us. There have been speeches here — and I am referring to Mr Junnila, Mr Vartiainen, too — that have given more thought to this, and they have wanted to say an overall picture of the Finnish society in terms of ageing. It has been said that the ageing of the population is one of the greatest direct threats and, of course, this explosive increase in the need for care is destabilising Finnish society in so many ways. Above all, this economic realism is called for, as is stated. Perhaps in this context it is good to look now at the facts and figures where we are now moving. After all, the term ‘deterioration of the dependency ratio’ was also used here. The fact is that in 1995 we had about 700,000 people over 65, slightly over 700,000, and today, 25 years later, 1.4 million people over 65, and the number of 65-year-olds will not grow strongly in relative terms compared to the change that has already taken place. In 1995, this was 14% of the population, now almost 22%, and according to the calculations it is at its peak of 25% in 2030, after which it inevitably falls because the baby boomers are leaving us. When we create such a horrifying picture that now that there are needs of care that grow somewhat here, it would be a destabilizing factor, it is good to remember that we currently have about 50,000 people in nursing homes, enhanced service housing and normal service housing, and some 100,000 people receive home services, and we have 550,000 pupils in primary school and 400,000 in secondary education. Why do we think that this care for the elderly is a kind of factor that would undermine the reality of Finnish society? It's not that. To some extent, this increase in the need for services here is, but it is not the kind of thing that is taking you right to the rocks. It should be remembered that 90 per cent of people over 75 live at home, 77 per cent of those over 85 still live at home, and three quarters, or 75 per cent of all people over 75, have nothing to do with the elderly services provided by Finnish society. So, in this respect, it's worth it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u94	Mr President! Mr Risikko, with his long experience, intervened in an absolutely essential matter. One of the risks of an indisputable improvement in the services of the elderly, although only one part of it will be carried out at a time without, as it were, the right to care for them, is that the municipalities do not have sufficient resources or that the government has not ensured them as part of this proposal, but will only be negotiated in the context of the forthcoming budget debate, which is, in fact, the spending limits debate. Of course, the risk is that elderly people who are less well-off will not be covered by 24-hour care, but will be kept at home or possibly in service housing. Surely each of us has people close to us who have been in different forms of service, either in service housing, hospital care, home care, family care, or around-the-clock care, and I'm sure quite a few of us have seen both good and bad. It is therefore wrong to say that all care and care for the elderly would be poor. However, when Mrs Kiljunen listed these numbers, it is quite clear that the number of elderly people in need of service will increase further in the coming years. That is precisely why it would be extremely important to ensure, in the context of reforms to one point, that the whole is maintained in such a way that the services are good and of good quality, including in home care, including in service housing and so on. Representative Laiho here described the proposals made by the assembly. Most of these are those in which Parliament would require adequate staff or improved services for the elderly as a whole, or, for example, to ensure that the funding required by this reform is ensured. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs specifically drew attention to the fact that the financial basis for the original proposal was virtually inadequate and, with it, it forced the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and, of course, Parliament to step up the entry into force of this proposal. Here, as a final objection to the Assembly, it is expressly required that this legislative process relating to the sources of funding be initiated without delay. In these speeches by the representatives, a little depending on who has spoken, there are different ways of financing this reform, and it is just not possible to go behind this question. In the fall, it'll come before the government and we'll have to find the money. That would be a very untenable way for Parliament to decide on the reform,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u95	Mr President! Of course, it is a good thing that efforts are being made to improve institutional care for the elderly. I think we all agree that this is an important issue. But I have to say that I did not know that this interest started to result from this kind of virtual legislation that the sections were made, even though the money and nurses were missing. Well, that's quite a thing. If we start with this money first, then of course it may be that if the government's starting point is the same as Mr Paavo Arhinmäki's, that the sovereign debt is only taken but never paid back, then of course it will be a solution until the value of the money collapses. But it's a story of its own. First of all, if we go to this nursing room, everyone will know what the situation is at the moment in the nursing sector. There's quite a shortage there for a lot of jobs. In many cases, when a company providing institutional care or a public sector organisation is in trouble, it has been a case that, for example, no replacements have been obtained when there have been longer sick leave or so on. There have, of course, been other bad governance, I am not saying so, but that has been the main reason. Well, then, where are the nurses coming from all of a sudden? Yes, we should look at it as a whole, as Mr Multala has explained very well here. Surely it is not the solution for people from home care or care for people with disabilities to move to institutional care. It's not gonna solve this whole thing. Well, it is good that these levels of education are being increased somewhat now, but everyone knows that even the amounts that are being added will not solve this issue. Well, then, of course, there is still the import of nurses from abroad. Of course, it is some kind of solution, and, for example, they did at some point come from the Philippines, but it is also a matter of requiring very good language skills, that these jobs can be done, and there must be long-term organised and organised training in such a way that people then receive the qualifications required in Finland for these tasks. So this is certainly not an easy road either. Mr President! Most of all, I am concerned about the fact that we are doing legislation here, in which these absolutely essential issues regarding funding and access to this medical staff are really very loose. I would like things to go so far as to get the money first, and the nurses would already be heavily trained and then the law would be passed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u96	Mr President! We have no more important task than to care for human welfare, to remember to be human in our decisions. Of course, as a Member of the SDP, I am particularly pleased to be here today in the Chamber to discuss this issue when the law finally provides for the minimum size of the staff of elderly services. Promises will be kept. With this law, we are one step closer to human care and human working conditions for carers. I'm sure we won't get perfect yet, but I'm sure we'll get better. After the transition period, the operating units of enhanced service housing and long-term institutional care must have an actual human dimension of 0.7 employees per customer. This so-called human resources or carership has been an important issue for us in the SDP for years. During the other season, we enacted the Act on Elderly Services, which entered into force on 1 July 2013. Representatives Ikonen and Sarkomaa recalled that the Old Age Service Act was adopted under the leadership of the Coalition Party, and this is true. At that time, under the leadership of Minister Risiko, an old-age service law was adopted. It was historic, and it was our long-term objective of the SDP back then. Unfortunately, or perhaps precisely because of the fact that there was a coalition at the time, we did not achieve a binding dimension. Today we have heard that this assembly is still annoying. There still seems to be opposition to this. The Old Age Services Act requires that the operating unit must have personnel whose number and function structure correspond to the service needs of older customers and provide them with high-quality services. Now, at last, there will be a change in this flaw and the staffing dimension will be recorded in the law. This is the result of years of long-term work. Mr President! Human resources are primarily about humanity and the right of older people to quality services and valuable old age. Despite the current legislation and the quality recommendations for care, it has become clear in recent years that care services for the elderly do not have sufficient staff to safeguard the quality of services. That's why it's natural for the law to be corrected. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that we have lived in this time of the corona and Finland has lived under exceptional circumstances. Restrictions have been made, lived with them, and now that the interest rate seems to have subsided, then a good government will dismantle these strict restrictions. They have been negotiated today under the leadership of the ministers, and in my opinion it is unreasonable,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u97	Mr President! There is much talk here about whether we now have enough staff to implement this future law. In the opinion of the Finns Party, the law should have entered into force on 1 January 21 and 0.7. We are in favour of human resources, but we believe that it should have been 0.7 at the beginning of next year. Of course, we all understand this corona situation, and the government also had to amend this bill so that it would enter into force on 1.10. That is perfectly understandable, the corona surprised us all, but we believe that 0.7 would be the realistic figure that should be in force as soon as possible, and that is why three years is too long to wait. Mr President! All in all, in this bill this staff, which is included in the immediate nursing work to do the care of the elderly themselves, and there are a total of 22 professions, which means that we are talking about a huge scale of experts in the various fields. It should be remembered that all of them are needed and that in the future there should also be training places for all of them. I do believe that we will find nurses to do the nursing work, and I believe that it would have been possible, even if we had had 0.7 in force immediately. This scale is very wide. Here, among other things, care assistants are included in the immediate care work, i.e. you have made a law that allows home assistants, helpers, care assistants also to operate in the immediate work. Of course, there is a risk that the care assistant will clean the unit first, the home assistant will cook first and then, for example, go on the evening shift to do the nursing work himself. In that case, the responsibilities must be in place and patient safety must be maintained. The Finns of Peru submitted an addendum to the committee's report, and it was great that we got it through. In addition, we made a mention of studying there and of streamlining, speeding up and increasing learning opportunities in nursing and nursing management training. This training should be available at national level. It is very important that education is fast and smooth and that we get more factors. Mr President! It is a great thing that we are able to enforce the Human Resources Act, but, as I said, the Finns of Finland believe that the dimension should be higher. It is very important that, when the law comes into force, the emphasis is placed on the fact that it does not have to be 0.5, but that it is possibly up to 0.8, depending on the condition of the customers and the need for services. We made many, many statements in connection with, among other things, informal care. It was unfortunate, for example, that this statement was supported only by the True Finns. We also presented statements for hospice treatment, which I will then present in more detail on Friday.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u98	Mr President! I would like to raise three further aspects of this issue. One is the funding that has been talked about here a lot and I think it is a challenge, and one can say that it is a problem. It is obvious that it is, too. It can be said that, especially since the committee has now started to step up this implementation of the carer's statute, this means that, during the transition period, less than EUR 100 million will be needed, and that is precisely what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs mentioned so forcefully that it put it behind us. There is talk of the principle of financing, that if municipalities are given an obligation, they must also find funding to fulfil that obligation. However, I myself would like to say that there is a need, in a sense, to keep this law, which we are dealing with here, and then the financial side separately. When this law is adopted, of course, it will be based on the fact that the government will also have to apply for funding for these dimensions, and yes, this will be known within the government, and I have no doubt that this will be the case in the autumn budget debate. This money can be found, as Mr Lindén has said, among other things. The second point I would like to make, as chairman of the committee, is that when opposition parties' objections and statements have been raised here, I would at least like to correct a misunderstanding that, even if they were voted on, that does not mean that the representatives of the government parties are opposed to the content of the statement. Most of those statements, in substance, are already contained in that text of the report and some then go beyond the very heart of the matter. That is not the point. I would also like to defend the opposition parties' protests as chairman of the committee. Although there is an objection to this law, you have not argued that this nurseship should not be enforced or worked for. That's how it's gonna be. Then the third point I would like to raise here is that, overall, in recent years, especially in 2019, we had a very hard debate about the unfortunate events and omissions that occurred in the care of the elderly, and that was a very good debate. It certainly helped to speed up this law, but I still want — and I believe it is the case — that the majority of the care and care of elderly people in Finland is at a good level. We have problems, but the majority are of good quality, and those nurses who work with those older people with their professional skills are doing it at a very high level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u99	Mr President! A representative might think that it is a bad thing for the previous speaker to outline what he had intended to say, but I think that the chairman of the committee. The salmon speech was very well answered precisely by this financial question and also by this debate around the statement, and it merely shows that our cooperation with the government is excellent, because I would have said about the same thing about both questions, but now I can ignore them in this respect. I would like to say for myself that this is a 30-month phase-out, i.e. 1.10. This year — April 1, 23. It is not unreasonable for such a major reform to have a phase-out of 30 months, i.e. a four-step phase-out. The opposition parties have now taken two different approaches to this, namely that this should be done immediately on 0.7 at this approaching turn of the year, and the coalition has not now been quite clearly defined, but, as I understand it, has called for this not to solve all the challenges of care for the elderly at once, and that, on that basis, this law could now remain in the process of further preparation — in my interim hearing, Mr Satonen nodded, as he has now done in this matter. Well, Mr Juvonen made a good point earlier in his first speech about what these 0.7 and 0.5 really mean. I thought it was very important to raise them, because the public debate has not always brought them up enough. I myself have used an example of 28-seat care, where everyone understands that 0.5 means half of it or 14, but not there in a week with 168 hours, and with one employee working between 38 and 40 hours a week, there will of course never be 14 at the same time taking care of 28 elderly people, but in practice this 0.5 means four in the morning shift, and we will be able to raise by 0.7 to six. In the evening shift, we will be able to raise the three people of 0.5 to five, and the two people on the night shift will remain the same. This change is therefore very important, especially in the day shift and the evening shift, and in that sense this is a very important reform. Finally, I would like to say that I believe that informal care, hospice care, home care, all these are extremely important questions, but we should not now, by appealing to them, obstruct this law or say that we cannot now accept this law, because these important other issues must be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u100	Mr President! I will come back to the big picture of the economy, which Mr Kiljunen spoke about. Contrary to what Mr Kiljunen claimed, this population share of those aged 65 or over will continue to grow for about ten years, even if it is growing very rapidly, while the proportion of people of working age will fall. The number of working-age people is not falling, but the number of people who have passed working life is increasing. In addition, the 65 plus group will increase the proportion of those who are old enough to need very expensive services. If you look at page 59 of this motion, it will show how this is going to be a brisk, perhaps in this decade some 5 billion increase in the cost of this care for the elderly, and that is why this overall picture is so difficult. In fact, after listening to this, I would like to say that I am proud of my own party's assembly, which is clearly the only one who is actually trying to promote this dimension. It does not help at all that it is written in the law if we really do not have the money and the people. The DDR also had the Ministry of Justice, but it was not the rule of law, and those articles do not solve this. Now that you relate it to this big picture that we already have a huge problem in public finances, there is a gap in the budget plan of about 10 billion in 2024, and when you all seem to be happy here to suggest that now, thanks to this law, we are getting more resources and more money for these services, then I just find it hard to see how this equation goes down when all kinds of realism here seems to be almost everywhere in public finances, if we do not make major structural changes, then from now on there will be less money and fewer people. They're getting smaller, too. I mean, there may not be any of those students either. That is why I too am able and my party is able to talk about these employment reforms. They give us more power to public finances without even costing anything, but here too, unfortunately, we are left too alone in this Chamber. And that scarcity of public finances and elderly services, no matter what the article says, always erupts somewhere, among people who may not have such loud organizations. Then, when you practically cut home care, maybe women will sacrifice — women are doing more free work in Finland — or from somewhere else, there are fewer resources in child welfare, but this creepy picture of the overall economy you cannot escape with these beautiful speeches. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u101	Mr President! The Coalition Party is in favour of adding carers to the services of older people, both round-the-clock care and home care. There is no doubt about this. A few words on the content of this bill. As Mr Juvonen has pointed out in his previous speech, this draft law includes a large number of professional titles, that is to say, a very wide range of professions, and there is a risk that the level of competence can be reduced, for example in the area of medical and medical care, which unfortunately makes it possible to reduce the level of competence, to reduce the level of skills, and especially when it comes into force from the beginning of October, in other respects than its dimension, there is a real danger here. Well, other things inside the show: It does not take into account the benefits of technology in any way. When we are living in a modern-day society, all of us in service activities must take into account the benefits of technology, such as safety for older people, dosage of medicines and automatic distribution of medicines or pharmaceuticals by pharmacists, and how to ease the workload of staff. Well, then, from this evaluation gauge. It is a great thing that the government has now adopted the proposal for a national evaluation panel to be introduced in the assessment of the service needs of the elderly, and that is now in this law. The bad news is that a single meter has now been put into the law, and there are a lot of questions about it. In particular, the various services of the Regional State Administrative Agency and Valvira drew attention to the fact that the assessment of a single meter alone does not give an adequate picture of the overall situation of the elderly, and it is also very health-oriented, leaving aside social needs. But, unfortunately, there was no constructive development clause in that report either.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u104	Mr President! Minister Kiuru has arrived, a very good thing, and you have made good decisions there in the Government, thank you for them. Then I was already talking about the need to put the stone foot in order first, so the old-age service law needs to be given stronger rights. At the time it was watered down at the time it was done, and it was not the cause of the convention, you can read about it in the history books. We have been talking here about this dimension, and it is important that the staff have the skills, the suitability. It is the basis of its high-quality service. There is also a need for quantity, that is quite clear. The services must have versatile, trained and adequate personnel, but they must also be suitable. The number of personnel must be based on the condition of the helpers, and the poorer customers and residents are in service housing, the more personnel are needed. The need for staff numbers is also affected by the facilities and equipment in use. The law can, of course, regulate the size of the staff, but it is always necessary to take into account the number of people to help, i.e. the condition or care. The minimum size alone is not enough, because it often becomes the maximum. Here, Mr Lindén often makes very wise speeches, but I think that, when you say that you can now have two nurses at night, the two nurses sometimes do not help if there are very demanding patients with a lot of problems, there is anxiety, hospice patients...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u107	Mr President! Mr Vartiainen here, in his last words, drew attention to the fact that this terrible picture of the economy must be kept in mind when we consider the ageing of the population and the care needs associated with it. It's good to put the blocks back on. Of course, it is true that the population is ageing in Finland. Since World War II, we have had an average life expectancy of 23 years more. In 1950 we had five people over 100 years of age, and soon the limit of 1,000 will be broken. So yes, we have more and more elderly people, but we all know well that these older people are increasingly well-being, better functioning and able to function well, for a very long time, compared to the situation in the past. I have already referred to the fact that 90 per cent of people over 75 live at home and 77 per cent of those over 85. Some of them receive these different types of public services, old-age services, but a significant proportion, three quarters, those over 75 years of age, are not available at all and are not used at all. This, too, must be taken into account. When you look at the structure of age-related services in Finnish society, we currently have almost 22 per cent, 21 per cent and slightly on over 65 years old, and this 21 per cent of the population uses 25 per cent of all age-related services in Finnish society, including education services that are not used by elderly people. We see that this public finances are not now collapsing because the number of older people has increased because they also bring money with them: EUR 5 billion a year will pay taxes over the age of 65. They are also involved in paid employment; nearly 100,000 people over the age of 65. Sixty per cent of carers are over 65 years old. They also contribute to this society, not only resources in the form of taxes and consumer demand, for example. We create this terrible image that the whole Finnish society is now facing a shocking crisis when this so-called dependency relationship has weakened — one of the weakest economic concepts to justify. The fact that we have a working-age population from 15 to 65 years of age, and these others are dependent, is not factually correct at all, because we also have an increase in the level of education so that we become involved in working life at a later stage. There is a great deal there, from 15 to 25 to 30 years old, which are, as it were, passive populations. 30% of people in the age range 15 to 65 are out of work. Let us now look at this overall picture together and see what challenges we face when the public service structure is increasingly geared towards day care and education for elderly services, but this social system is not falling into this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u108	Mr President! I'm glad the Minister has also arrived. This recording of 0.5 personnel in the law has at least seemed quite modest to the opposition, as we, the Finns of Peru. When we feel the need for what is there in the nursing field, when we know that the customers are in very poor condition and need a lot of help and guidance and a nurse’s assisting hand, do you think, Minister, that this 0.5 is enough? And how do you send that message to the airport that it doesn't have to be the minimum, 0.5, but it can be according to what these people are capable of doing and what kind of help they need? Of course, it can already be 0.7, even though it is only there in 2023 when it is thought to come into force. Mr President! At the end of the day, those carers and occupational health and safety advisers will follow the events in those units. And it is very important that the system works and that a person who detects shortcomings in his work unit should not be able to label it at all, but can speak fairly and openly and even demand more human resources. It shows courage from a nurse who sees that, hey, we don't get by here with 0.5, we need 0.7, and we don't get by here with a single night nurse, we need two night nurses, or if there's a serious hospice situation or if there's a corona epidemic where there's a lot of hospice situations, we need a lot more night nurses. [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group] Mr President! The unions have accepted that care assistants, home assistants, are also included in the immediate customer work, i.e. the nursing work itself. This means that perhaps the care assistant, who is responsible for cleaning up the department, for example, will move on to doing the nursing work himself in a few moments. Here we can think about whether everything goes as it does in Strömsö — we hope it will — and when the partner is a good, experienced, skilled nurse, then we can believe that everything will work. But I would ask you, Minister, when we also need a lot more education and care workers are needed and needed, how are their education going now? When I hear that there are ideas that their education will become a part of social and health studies and then a section of cleanliness and real estate studies, is this possible now? After all, it would be important for them to also have that knowledge of social and health care in the background there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u109	Minister Kiuru, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u110	Mr President! Right away, Mr Juvonen's answer: we will not. I'll explain this later, but let's not forget it. Let's move on from Mr. Vartiainen's point of view. You said in some way that the articles do not resolve and that the big picture of the economy is not properly taken into account, that is to say, the overall picture of public finances must not be allowed to escape. I personally agree that we must make financially sustainable decisions, but I will say with some travelling experience that every year, every year — every single year — since the 2007 elections, when we have been in this same room, every single year has never been the age of the elderly. Because, Mr Vartiainen, is the time when it is the time for the elderly? This government decided in its government program that now is the time. I understand very well that it pisses me off that we are spending money in this way, but I am really glad that in the end it is time for these people, who are really in a small capacity for staffing in enhanced service housing. Their time has come now. I am counting on Parliament today to catch up with this content. This has been one of the biggest dreams of this Chamber, and I say to you that, while I am in ministerial responsibility, I have only once been able to present something even greater, and I think this is very important. Today, Parliament will make history, and by Friday at the latest. And why? That is why two important things are being done here: Add 4400 carers, as the Coalition Party has suggested, to increase carers. Now we should stop by once more of those nurses. And we want to make sure that the articles also determine that money does not go into the bottomless pits, but that this money specifically supports the position of older people in enhanced service housing. The second big change is that this proposal checks the division of labour, which is done when it is said that care and care are done. That traditional design of laundry is now in the history of history. Now the nursing work will be care and care work in the future, and with the dimension that has been given to it, everyone who comes under the rating will take care or care, and that is all. The support work is now carried out separately. The biggest change is that, according to this proposal, from the beginning of October, we will focus on the future, already in the autumn, on the increase in the number of staff, because it has been scaled in the future, so that only those who give care and care will be included. This will immediately increase the number of staff in the workplace. The second point is that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has come to the conclusion that, this time, it is now the case that this is strictly linked to the principle of financing that a certain amount of euro and the steps taken towards it will come into the law. Of these options, as proposed by the Constitutional Committee, three options, we considered in the Ministry that we cannot reduce the service level of customers of enhanced service housing by more than 60% to 0.60.5. That is impossible, but PeV suggested that we could have put 0.5 to go there until 23. It cannot be done because more than 60% already have 0.6 and 0.7 is 22%. We could not propose the level of service to be calculated. On the other hand, we could not suggest that if the social partners, who work there in these nursing homes, both employers and workers, suggest that this should be resolved in this way as this basic proposal is, then neither do I nor this Parliament have so much more information that those nurses will appear there at the beginning of October at the strength of 0.7 to work, all 4400. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u113	Mr President! Indeed, we are dealing with the Government's proposal for a law on supporting the functioning of the elderly population and amending the Act on social and health services for the elderly. When you do not sit down in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and think about what law you are dealing with, I would easily think if I did not know this year's debate that we are talking about home care, its support, the functional capacity of the elderly population, the provision of services in a variety of ways, but this is really just a one-off proposal to measure our senior and aging population in a rather small sector, for those who are in a service home or care unit. It is important — we need more carers — but I would have been a much more satisfied Member of Parliament if I knew when the government would bring forward the reforms of the entire legislation on care for the elderly in terms of home care needs and quality, availability, timeliness and all the other things that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has also raised here in its report. Then, if the decision-making body thinks, we have had the perspective and goal for a long time here that all the actions, responsibilities and tasks that the municipality will add will be fully replaced. When you look at this committee report and the size of the end of this year, and from the beginning of next year you should have at least 0.55 carers, and from then on for two to three years, in 23 of this 0.7, the frameworks will in a way be short of just over EUR 100 million. Why didn't the government bring that money here already? Here in Parliament there have been amending budgets for several billions. It has been stated in the Committee on Administration that both this and the raising of compulsory education frameworks lack funding for municipalities, although they have been promised. Why does the government not bring them in the same way with regard to these laws? There are so many things we can say in this Chamber that we want to put emphasis on it and we want to do it here. However, many times in practical life it is a question of whether those resources have actually been put where they want to be. Now I'd like to ask if the government has that will mode.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u114	Mr President! Obviously, at the end of the spring session, Parliament will adopt the long-awaited legislation on the replacement of the previous quality recommendation, even though the original government proposal has been slightly amended in committee. If this committee's report were adopted here in plenary, then the full 0.7 would be moved gradually over a period of less than three years. During this parliamentary term, no parliamentary party seems to be against this legal dimension any longer, but since it is not possible to reach full size in all units at this stage, it makes sense to proceed step by step, even if this proposal is being implemented rather slowly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u118	Mr President! I, too, believe that we are on the verge of a historic reform when we get this nurseship into that law. A great many Members here have also spoken with concern about how we can get nurses in the care sector. I would now like to ask the Minister: has the Ministry considered how to increase the attractiveness of the care sector and promote the work of carers?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u119	President! This is where Minister Kiuru said that it is never the time for the elderly. That is a very good question. Now we have been discussing services for the elderly, which is a good thing, but we must always remember that this is only part of the elderly that we are talking about. This is less than what we have at home, in informal care support or in home care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u122	Mr President! We are dealing here with the government's proposal, but Minister Kiuru began to question me here first as to when the time will come for the elderly, and I will answer when it goes this way. Contrary to what Minister Kiuru thinks, I am not angry at all. You don't have to infantiate or emotionalize them like that. I am a little concerned about Finland, but if I were angry every time the government pursues an irresponsible policy, I would be upset. [Laughter] Minister Kiuru, you mentioned this year 2008 and asked if it would never be for the elderly. Well, it is actually a very good year to mention, namely it is a kind of artistic site in the history of Finland. Until then, the working-age population of Finland had grown. In that year it began to decrease, while the retirement age groups began to grow. It was then that the thumb rule learned by old politicians and perhaps even prematurely outdated younger politicians was broken that growth would take care of public finances' debts, as long as the economic cycle remained normal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u125	Mr President! Minister, in your speech you said that you understood my indignation, but like a representative I, too, have to say that I am not upset. I am deeply concerned, but I am also a realist, and I must say that this debate around these elderly issues in Parliament and the fact that we have come so far has called for the nerves of the cow. So it hasn't helped to get upset, not at the workplace, not really here. We must hope for all the good and the best that this bill and this law that is now acceptable will hold, and it is not the 0.5, but it can also be 0.7 depending on what people are like. Mr President! I haven't heard anyone thank you yet for this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u128	Mr President! Many speakers have raised the issue of home care and the threat that this bill will jeopardise home care, and that is quite true. This concern has been raised in a number of expert opinions and has even been expressed in this bill. So it's a real risk. That is why, when Minister Kiuru is here, I would like to ask about this old-age service law: when are you going to bring that whole package to Parliament so that it can also be assessed for the adequacy of home care and also for family care? Another issue which also raises a great deal of concern is staff. How can the human resources required by this bill be met? And on this point, the Ministry of Education and Culture has stated that the main challenges relate to adequate funding and the adequacy of the people to be trained in order to increase the numbers of education and training in a situation where the age groups of young people and of working age are decreasing at the same time as retirement is high. In other words, it is important to respond with training measures, but much more is also needed. There is now 148 million in local nurse training, but more nursing training is also needed, as well as that nursing assistant training. And I would also like to ask the Minister how, together with the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education has contributed to ensuring that these numbers of staff are sufficient and that sufficient staff are trained for round-the-clock care to meet the needs of this bill and that there are sufficient staff for home care and that sufficient staff are trained for the needs of other social and health services? As we still have a need for trained staff elsewhere, I would like to see an answer to these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u132	Mr President! In this very strong way, Minister Kiuru pointed out the fact that, according to his memory from 2008 onwards, during his parliamentary career, it has always been said in this Chamber that ‘because we are old and we are old,’and there is no time. If we are even more specific, we have to go back to 1991 and say that until the 2019 Parliamentary elections, we have had governments that have treated pensioners over 65 years of age in such a way that they have been deprived of more benefits than any other population group in the history of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u135	Now there are representatives of Kurvinen and Arhinmäki, and then there are five minutes for Minister Kiuru. Minister Kiuru will have to leave after that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u136	Mr President! There has been a very long debate today on this report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the so-called'maintenance of care for the elderly'. The real name of the law is a little more fancy, but it is a question of how much is required to be carers in care facilities for the elderly, and I think the debate will soon be in the third fourth hour, but that is correct. This is a very big matter, and I think that all the parties and factions that are now represented in this Chamber have also promised this to Finnish senior citizens in the last elections. [Department : Except for the Coalition Party! ] As such, this is not an easy exercise, and I also understand the opposition's statements and criticisms that this is a pretty tough and challenging case. During this parliamentary term, I have quoted John F. Kennedy in this Chamber before that we are doing these and other things not because they are easy, but because they are difficult, and this is a very difficult case. This is a very difficult thing to do, but it is morally and humanly — we owe it to you to do so. In that sense, it is good that the debate has also gone on to how this is to be done, and not just to who made the mistakes between them. We must agree with Minister Kiuru that there have been governments of all colors here. There have been blue-greens here, and there have been purple governments here, there have been purple Finns in the government, and it has been difficult to carry that out, and now it is being carried out. I think that the line chosen by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is quite right that we should step by step, because those nurses do not fall out of the sky suddenly. We need to get them trained, and then municipalities and future social services must prepare for the fact that there is money for this really to happen. Many Members have spoken about this matter here, and I would also like to raise this point: among other things, Mrs Hanna-Leena Mattila raised the issue, and others have mentioned that the big thing is that we need to attract young people and not even a few older people to the care sector. It's a huge question now. According to the messages I have heard from my own people, working conditions are not at the level of getting people with the right motivation and qualities to go out and, above all, stay in the business. It is partly a question of pay, but it is also a question of management; it is a question of working conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u137	Mr President! A binding carer’s appointment to care for the elderly is a historic decision. It's a decision we've been waiting for for a long time. This is an issue which was particularly raised last spring in the context of the crisis in services for the elderly. At the time there were nine parties here in Parliament, of which eight were in favour of binding staffing. One objected at the time. This was promised in the election, and now it is being carried out. Mr President! This is a big question for the elderly who are in the services, it is a big question for the staff and it is a big question for the family. A great deal of thought has been given to how to make the medical staff adequate. The Government will increase the number of local nurse training places for some 5,000 students. But the big question is also how to do it. It is a question of pay, of course, but also of working conditions. So many people have said that they are no longer able to work when their hands are not enough, they are not able to do as well as they would like.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u140	Minister Kiuru, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u141	Mr President! Thank you for an excellent debate. I will try to tackle as many questions as possible. First of all, I think it was wonderful for Mr Kurvise to see that we are able to make heavy decisions. This is a question of finding the money — not the money growing on the tree — and in this respect we have also had to look at the amount of 19.1 billion in social and health care. Yes, Mr Vartiainen, it is a question of us moving funding in practice in order to manage also the debt that society has spiritually accumulated towards these people who are in enhanced service housing,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u144	Mr President! For a long time, of course, I was wondering whether it would still be worthwhile to start discussing this, but here were some Members who were already on the move for the fifth round, and this is my third speech. I am using this because economic issues have come to the very heart of this, especially Mr Vartiainen, but many others have spoken about them. Minister Kiuru has just started very well, precisely because this package of 19.6 billion is, however, before us. I like the way Mr Vartiainen thinks that the cake should be baked before the cake has to be shared. And now I would like to draw attention to the fact that the budgetary plan for the spring — which in itself was much criticised — contains a very detailed description on page 24 of it, which contains, for example, EUR 100 million in funding for the project at hand, and mentions that EUR 60 million is available in health insurance contributions. Once it has been brought up here — I have heard, in particular, from the Coalition Party, that it is now taking away the children's ear doctors and now it is taking away women's gynecologist visits: EUR 55 million is being spent on health insurance for private doctors at the moment. In practice, it will amount to about EUR 10 per visit to a doctor. In my view, it is precisely now that we have to prioritise this money within the framework of the framework. I dare say that EUR 60 million is more ethical and effective in the service housing of older people than in the fact that we, the EUR 120 medical bill, compensate for health insurance by EUR 10 per visit, which means that it is quite inefficient in many ways. What do we get for that $60 million? We have the calculation on which this is based — the EUR 54000 per year being the total cost of one more service housing manager and, of course, the cost of salaries, social security and much more — 1200 additional carers. What does 1200 nurses mean by 0.7? This means that we are treating almost 2,000 more people in a service home for the elderly with the money we are now spending on these ear doctors and private doctors, ten per patient. This is exactly the kind of debate I would like to have in this Chamber. Then we will not be breaking the frameworks, we will not be raising taxes, we will not be taking out more loans for this purpose, we will be moving within its great framework and we will prioritise money there in an effective, effective way, in a way that is most effective and ethical.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u145	Chairman! With regard to this carership, a great deal of attention has been paid to the reimbursement of the costs of the municipalities, which is accompanied by the opinion of the Constitutional Committee on the principle of the funding of the municipalities. After all, this principle has been established in the practice of the Constitutional Committee, when it is examined, for example, in the context of large state aid and tax relief schemes or in the context of proposals for social welfare reform, that all municipalities should, as it were, have sufficient resources to carry out the tasks laid down by law. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs described this as the fact that the Committee believes that the implementation of the financial principle requires adequate funding for municipalities to achieve the statutory mandate, either fully or at least in such a way that the municipalities are in a position to fulfil this obligation. This has now been done with this clarification of the transitional provision. But in the background it must always be remembered that the municipalities have, from the outset, a self-government function to provide services for the elderly, and once fundamental rights have been included in the Constitution, it is written specifically in the case of social and health services that it is a task of the public authorities, i.e. the state and the municipalities together. After all, the original tasks of municipalities have been the construction of old people's homes, the provision of care for the elderly, and it has not gone anywhere in the meantime that this provision of a high-quality and adequate care for the elderly has been the responsibility of the municipalities at the same time. Therefore, every time that the function of the municipality is improved as society develops, separate funding should be allocated to each millimetre, when that task and its proper management have already been included in the basic tasks of the municipality from the outset. This has been somewhat forgotten in this debate, and it is good to keep in mind from the future that municipalities must also prioritise these tasks in such a way as to ensure that the main and core tasks are carried out well and then they will be covered by the central government system, tax relief and other assistance, and in the development of legislation it is good to look at the implementation of the funding, but it will never be able to remove the municipality's original responsibility with the municipality's own tax revenue to carry out these core tasks. I hope that this revision of the transitional provision will help to better fulfil the task of common public authority in relation to this important care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u146	Mr President! The government has identified as the main sources of funding the cuts in private health health insurance contributions, the improvement of service and purchasing services, the exploitation of digitalisation, and changes in pharmacy services and pharmaceutical services. These private Kela compensations were raised here and that a private doctor will receive less than ten euros for a visit, and that is quite true. So it is only about 15 percent of the total cost of a doctor’s visit, but consider the fact that if some people visit a private doctor there and do not burden public health care, it is a really cheap price. Yes, it has a symbolic meaning for people to get something. There are a lot of low-income families, middle-income families, a lot of families with children, pensioners who use. They may not use them regularly, but they do use those private services. And we do not have access to certain specialist medical services through public services, which was well mentioned here, for example, an ophthalmologist or a gynecologist, so we can forget about such inspections, which would, however, be really important in terms of promoting and preventing human health. Then I would like to raise this issue of the patient directive. In other words, if Kela benefits are abolished, patients in another EU country will be able to receive treatment on the private side with public sector customer fees, but in Finland there will be no compensation for private care. Health care companies would also be encouraged to relocate production abroad at that time, for example to Estonia. A Finnish company transfers its operations to Estonia, and it is easy for Finns to visit Estonia in some measures. This would mean significant losses to tax revenue for the Finnish State. This would also jeopardise equal treatment for people. Not everyone has the opportunity or the means to go to other EU countries for treatment. Then who could afford it? That's something you can all think about. In Finland, we need to be able to provide people with public service care, both in terms of access and payments, with an approach that takes into account both the EU patient directive requirements and the equal treatment of customers — it is in the interests of all of us Finnish citizens — and precisely that we have both private and public actors and that all actors are taken into account. Let them be involved in doing this work and we will improve access to treatment and will be able to secure
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u147	Mr President! Here Mr Koskinen made a good speech about the responsibility of municipalities, for example, to care for the elderly. That is quite true, but we have already agreed many years ago that if there is a new obligation to the law, and this is a new obligation, then I think it is quite right and reasonable — just like many other laws at the moment, if something is added, it is right and reasonable — that municipalities should be paid. Then, with regard to these Kela allowances, it is quite true that over the years it has had to be reduced, but I claim that the Kela allowance has been quite as cost-effective, because we have been under enormous pressure on that basic health care and also on special medical care and specialist doctors. There has been a small incentive, a small, low income and many people have taken advantage of it, and then these people have not burdened the public sector. So I'm saying that a pretty small amount of money has saved society money, but, of course, it has appeared that the share of ownership has increased. Finland has one of the largest self-responsible health care costs in the EU. So at least my point of view is that why do we have to use the Kela allowance for this? While there is still the fact that, now that Kela payments are being made, the Commission will certainly intervene in this payment system of the patient directive. The Commission has given us a short period of time to take care of it with the Kela allowance. Now that the Kela compensation is being removed, the Commission will certainly no longer look at this with a good eye. We have an order that it should be arranged with a customer fee — and it will be, listen, much more expensive, because in the future, when this service becomes less available, when the services are concentrated, people will go abroad for more care because they can choose from abroad either public or private. We have specifically needed those Kela compensations for this. And although I myself know that they are a small part, I nevertheless believe that it has been a cost-effective action, yet it has contributed to the health of people. There have been mammographs, there have been urologist surveys, there have been various cancer studies, there have been ophthalmologists and gynecologists studies and so on. It's the specialties that you don't get from that basic health care, that's what they do. And you cannot go to special medical care because, for example, the services of a gynecologist are not available in special medical care specifically from the point of view of health promotion. This is a question of choice, but I think it would have been worth the elderly to take it to the effect that the money had been all right.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u148	Mr President! This afternoon and early evening has been a very good debate. We have discussed the lives and services of the elderly, and this has been a very good debate. This illustrates the extent to which we are dealing with this issue, even though we are discussing, in principle today, human resources measurements for people in 24-hour enhanced service housing, but this is a very wide-ranging issue. As Mr Risikko said and called for, among other things, the legal protection of the elderly and the guarantee of care, this human resources will also strengthen the legal protection of these people by providing them with better quality of services and legal protection in that respect. Then it has also been called for the development of services for the elderly and for digital services. All of us who are working on services for the elderly know for sure that digital services and digital services are being developed rapidly throughout Finland, and it has got, could you say, such a leap in many ways now with this social welfare reform? And while we are developing social welfare reform, the social welfare reform will also provide better legal protection and service for older people, when services are brought together, thereby making it much easier to access services for elderly people living at home and to manage the overall situation. This will also allow us to discuss this theme next spring when the reform of social welfare and health care is being carried out. But what I actually asked to speak for was that I have been chairman of the Family Care Association for a long time, including myself as a family carer for many years, and it has been a great pleasure to hear how the family carers are now being called upon to have support. Just as Mr Kiljunen said, the majority of family carers are elderly and care for their own spouses, but at the same time we have about 400,000 working carers who care for their loved ones. This is the challenge facing us as far as older people are concerned that we must develop our working life in such a way that it also enables the family care situation of working people. By doing so, we will then be helping the better quality of life of older people in the future and giving them a better chance of ageing, as we can make it possible for those of us who are working to actually care for our own parents when they grow older. — — — — But thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u149	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mrs Kiljunen for the debate, but I would like to thank her for her last wish that we should do even more for the family carers and especially for those who are there on the field of employment and work: I am telling you that I have taken a legislative initiative to allow the working family carer to remain on leave without having to resign from work. At the moment, the law allows it, but does not oblige the employer to give such leave. It would then mean that in a situation of informal care — which may also occur very suddenly — a serious illness may become in the family, for example, and a person may have to stay or want to stay with his/her loved one during the hospice phase, for example — this would be possible. In this way, our working life should be developed to be even more empathetic, understanding and permissive, and indeed to be able to remain free from informal care without having to resign. I hope, the government, that you will take action to ensure that the content of the legislative initiative can be put into effect at some point. If anyone were very important, then our speeches would also come true what we are talking about here. Similarly, with regard to hospice care: we all talk about it beautifully here and say how important it is. It is also possible to further improve hospice care in Finland by bringing it into the law, by making good hospice treatment subjective to every person. We can do those things here in Parliament, take them to the level of the law we speak of beautifully here. The human resources for care of the elderly have now been brought to the level of the law. It's 0.5. It could be more than that. It is desirable that the units should respect the elderly and, if necessary, increase the dimension to 0.7 if people are in poor health and need more than one nurse. We can make laws, and let us take all these important themes to the level of the law, for that is the way to build the earth.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u150	The sitting will now be adjourned and resumed at 7.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u151	We shall now resume the session adjourned at 7.10 p.m. The amendments will be discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u152	Mr President! I wish to make an amendment to the entry into force provision in accordance with Amendment No 1 and propose that the entry into force provision be adopted in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u153	Mr President! I support the proposal made by Mrs Juvose.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u154	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 17/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u155	Mr President! I am presenting the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health very closely here. This proposal proposes to provide for an information system to improve the effectiveness of the transmission chains of corona virus caused by the covid-19 epidemic in order to reach those who may have been exposed to the corona virus. Thus, the language of the language refers to coronaps, a mobile application to target those exposed to infection. The goal is that the mobile app provided to the population allows the person to participate himself... [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u158	Mr President! Thank you to the Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Salmon, for a good presentation on this corona tracking application. Mr President! According to the proposal under discussion, mobile technology is also being used to identify corona virus transmission chains. The mobile application provided by the National Institute for Health and Welfare and its back-up system could add significantly to the tracking work carried out in health care units and help to cut the transmission chains faster. As chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, I am now focusing mainly on the comments made by the communication sector. However, attention should be paid to the risks posed by such a new information system for the collection and processing of data by citizens. As the Committee on Transport and Communications has stressed in its opinion, care for the information security of the system is of paramount importance, as the data to be processed are partly sensitive, even if the data stored by the system cannot be identified by individuals. The mobile system will only bring the desired benefits if a large proportion of citizens start using the application. This requires that citizens have confidence in the system and that the information collected about them is collected only as necessary and that the information collected is secure in the system. I therefore welcome the fact that the Cyber Safety Centre will assess the information security of the application and the background system before the application is introduced. There must also be sufficient time for this. As discussed above from the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Committee on Transport and Communications has put forward in its opinion a proposal for a statement to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to be included in the report, which calls for the development and functioning of the next mobile application and background system of the Government, in particular in terms of privacy and information security. Mr President! In the expert hearings, the Committee on Transport and Communications drew attention not only to privacy and security, but above all to the importance of open source code. Open publication of the system's source code in all respects where it does not harm security, is essential for independent evaluation of the functioning of the system. It is therefore a good thing that the rapporteur's ministry is going to say that this will be the case. Mr President! The European Commission has adopted a Recommendation on the use of mobile technology in the covid-19 crisis, and similar tracking applications using the bluetooth connection are currently being developed in several countries across Europe and also in the wider world. Therefore, in developing the mobile system, care should be taken to ensure that applications from different countries work as well as possible, especially at EU level, as people start to move more and more across borders in order to maximise the benefits of the application.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u159	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is on the table, and this proposal proposes to provide for an information system to increase the effectiveness of the corona virus transmission chains to reach those who may have been exposed to the corona virus. The objective is that the mobile application provided to the population allows the person to participate in the prevention of the transmission of the corona virus himself, i.e. the purpose of this mobile application is to test, track, isolate, treat the operation of the model. Mr President! Who would have thought that we had to take huge strides during the corona virus epidemic? There have been remote schools, there have been telework and now there will be mobile technology and this kind of tip that we are trying to prevent the spread of the corona virus epidemic, because, worryingly, it is in the mind that in autumn and winter we will have a new wave and we will have to consider every possible means of preventing the epidemic. But it is very important that people's information security is taken care of, because this tip records citizens' information. It is also very important that the costs that this mobile application may entail, for example, for society when doing these are closely monitored, that we know what we are getting and what we are paying for, i.e. monitoring is needed. Well, then, to measure the benefits of this mobile app. That depends on how many people use this mobile app, whether they have devices and trust that the device can be used. It is also worrying that, on the contrary, people may think that they are being stalked and watched and that they do not want to introduce such a mobile application. The specific part is also those people who are not equipped and do not have smart phones to introduce such an application, let alone know how to use it. For example, older people do not necessarily keep up with this technological development, and it is therefore very important that these applications do not replace the traditional method of getting to the tests and then start tracking and then also sequestering and treating people, i.e. keeping the tests. Certainly, if a new wave comes in the autumn and, as is likely to happen, we will need more testing capacity, and it is good that we prepare for it in good time, and I am sure that this will also be done, as well as that there will be nurses and care facilities, intensive care facilities and everything else on offer, not just a tip. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u160	Mr President! Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in the salmon report and Chairman of the Committee on Transport The opinion referred to by Mr Kymäläinen was largely of the same concern and was also supplemented by Mr Juvone in his speech. We can do legal work on this reform, that is what we are doing right now. I also believe that technology can be found because there are international examples. But the biggest challenge will be how to put this into practice — I am going to use this fashionable word — into practice, because here is the very thing that we have a lot of population groups that may be alienating this, and this is on the basis of voluntary action. The elderly are a challenge here. So when we have the technology, we really will face an unprecedented challenge of putting this into practice so that we can benefit from the cost of the potential resources that have been invested in it. That is the concern I wanted to bring here — not in hindsight at all or anything else, but I believe that this challenge is the biggest one here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u161	Mr President! This proposal proposes to provide for an information system to improve the effectiveness of the transmission chains of corona virus caused by the covid-19 epidemic in order to reach those who may have been exposed to the corona virus by using a possible application. The aim is to make this mobile application more effective in testing, tracing, isolation and managing the model. At the moment, the corona situation in Finland is peaceful, and this bill certainly plans to prepare for a possible second wave. If so, of course, it will be necessary to put in place all the means available to us to trace those exposed to infection as quickly and effectively as possible, so that they can be caught and then directed to further treatment and research. Information security and privacy were raised here, which, of course, are the starting point for the introduction of such an application and need to be taken care of. In practice, it is also necessary, at least at this stage, to take it into account in the arsenal of use, that, even if it is unidentifiable, it cannot be so certain that it can be risky. We need to take care of this. Then it has to be noted that if this were to be used in wider use, then of course this will result in further work. This will increase the number of people exposed to information, and will result in additional workload for municipalities and hospital districts in this tracking work and in their assessments and management controls. That's what the municipalities need to prepare for. This bill is meant to be temporary, to come into force from the end of August and would be valid until the end of March 2021. It is a pity that this would not come into use until the end of August. In view of the fact that schools start in mid - August and many are returning from remote work to physical work in mid - August, it would have been a good thing that it was already in use. But the main thing is that if a possible second wave comes, it would then be widely used and on the telephone of as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u162	Mr President! I salute this information system that enhances the cut-off of corona virus transmission chains with joy. It has an important role to play in the test, track, isolation, care model. The mobile application is free of charge and voluntary, which is justified in this situation. On the other hand, when it is known that the application must be sufficiently widely used to benefit from it, it must be encouraged in different ways, despite its voluntary nature. Its reliability and data protection must be ensured and its usability given particular attention. Fortunately, Finland has a high level of competence in mobile technology and usability, and I believe that solutions will be found here. In addition, international cooperation is needed to ensure the interoperability of systems in different countries so that, in the event of increased mobility of people, traceability can also be extended to potential international exposures. It is precisely at the moment that we in Finland have a very good infection situation, and we hope that it will remain so, but at the same time we are hearing worrying news about the disease situation in the world, and in that sense this international dimension is of particular importance for the prevention of this second wave. But thank you, this is an important performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u163	Mr President! It's great to have a mobile app, and hopefully we can get it online as soon as possible. Now that the disease situation is still at a good level in Finland, we have time to prepare for it if the disease starts to spread more widely among the population, which is also a possible scenario. At the moment, now that the restrictions have been lifted, it is a good time to develop a plan for the next year and various options for how we will act if the disease situation continues to grow. To that end, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it has been estimated that the application must be fully available to the population in order to benefit from it at population level. However, some expert evaluations have pointed out that the application can be useful even if it has been downloaded by a much smaller number of people. We know that, even now, the disease is spreading locally, for example in a certain municipality in the north of Sweden or in certain municipalities, and it could be estimated that, in such a situation, the introduction of a very local application could help to control the epidemic and track down the supply chains. One can even think of it as an example that, here in Parliament, we would have this application that would allow us to know better about our working community if the disease started to spread. There are many other examples. So maybe we should reconsider what kind of message is being sent about how useful the application is if it is that even the smaller number of users is actually useful. Personally, I fear that it is as if it were stated here that, well, there was not enough users and that the application would not be of sufficient benefit, which is not necessarily the case. Now there is also the opportunity to collect and share information on the spread of infections much more closely — not personal data, of course, but information on where the epidemic is moving when this data is being collected more widely in the autumn. Then we will be much better placed to target various measures, much more local possible restrictive measures than we have now had to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-100.u164	Mr President! I myself thought I should say a few words when I have spoken and tried to influence this mobile button, the corona button. It is wonderful that this performance is here now, and I salute it with joy. It is good that there are the very elements that should be here. It is voluntary, it respects privacy, and security is taken care of. On this basis, the committee's proposal for a statement is also good and excellent, i.e. the idea of this monitoring and then, if necessary, being able to intervene if regulation still needs to be changed. Timelyly, as in many other corona discussions here, it always comes out whether this could have been faster or faster and so, but the important thing is that when this is done it is done well and properly, and it is good that this will come into use. Mr Holopainen has said well here that this will in any case strengthen this test and trace work, the success of which is critical to keeping the epidemic under control if and perhaps when new contagion clusters emerge at some point. So, a very important tool, and the more you use it, the better, but even if you don't get to a magical percentage, of course this will contribute to the testing and tracing work. Above all, it is a good thing that this is now being put right on behalf of this house and, as I think many of you have already mentioned, it is very important that the application itself should then be easy to use and well communicated so that it can be implemented in practice as the laws have now been laid down.
