ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 29/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 1 December 2020. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u2	Mr President! I'm going to counter-protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u3	Madam President! I am in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u4	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 12/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 30 November 2020. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u5	Madam President! I would like to make a suggestion that the Parliament approve the Article 8 proposal as the content of the paragraph, which is distributed to the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u6	Mr President! I am in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u7	The fourth item in the order of business is the debate on the alternative budgets of the Finnish Parliament Group, the Parliament Group of the Coalition Party, the Christian Democratic Parliament Group and the Business Now Parliament Group. After presentations of the alternative budgets, Mr Vanhanen, Minister for Finance, will speak. Following the Minister's intervention, there is a debate where a part of the debat will be reserved for each alternative budget. After the debate, the debate will continue at a rapid pace, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. A joint debate on alternative budgets will take place on the subject of the first discussion initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u8	Mr President! The alternative for the Finns can be summed up in three points: First of all, the path to tax increases has been completed. Secondly, the EU recovery package must be brought down. Thirdly, central government finances must be balanced by saving and ending over-indebtedness. This is done in a long run by setting priorities for government spending. Mr President! In the alternative budget for Finns, work, industry and enterprise come first. This is a value choice for Finns, but it is also a necessity, because Finland's competitiveness needs strengthening. The world is full of countries and companies that would like to do the work of Finns and produce the products that Finnish companies have produced so far. It is essential to ensure that the production and jobs of our companies and industries do not move to countries that are more polluting than us because of excessive taxation and excessive climate measures. Savings are not pleasant in politics, at least in general, but it is a necessary and responsible way of working in the current economic climate. Basic Finnish economic policy sets priorities. First, we must save for Finns secondary and non-essential expenditure, such as development aid and poor immigration. Marin’s government’s choice of values was to increase the heating costs of pensioners living in a detached house — and to send the collected tax money to Africa. During the time of Korona, this is an extraordinary political choice. Giving away tax euros as development aid will not revive the Finnish economy. There is a people in Finland who buy used cars in Sweden and pay up to 70 per cent of the tax on a gallon of petrol with a gas tank. The government sees motorists only as paying agents, and they are also guilty of pollution. [Anneli Kiljunen’s interlude] With the savings in the Finnish alternative budget, we cancel the tax increases on fuels that discipline motoring. We defend Finnish work, industry and enterprise. We return emissions trading fees collected from companies to them and promote foreign trade by abolishing fairway charges. We would lower the tax on labour and lower the tax on Yle-Tax. Like the government, we would not cut the household allowance. To boost business investment, we would introduce an investment reserve such as the Estonian tax model. [Interjection from left] Mr President! By raising taxes on necessities such as heat and transport, people are not led away from necessities. It emptys the pockets of the citizens so that the government can afford to increase party support, hire more special assistants and increase development aid. This is not acceptable to the Finns. Nor will there be an EU stimulus package for Finns. By not participating in the package, Finland would save at least EUR 4 billion. The overall responsibilities of the EU recovery package are 13 billion, and in the worst case scenario, Finland's payment burden is much more than that. The EU’s recovery package is economically very damaging and is not even an effective recovery; instead, the recovery money is being put into climate action. The enlargement of the EU's power in economic policy also threatens a much greater issue: Finland's independence. With the recovery package, the EU will take up its first common debt, become a Union of transfers and enjoy its own tax rights. Finnish taxpayers should not be treated as contributors to a poorly managed economy in other countries. Each country must bear its own debts. True Finns present cuts in the costs of non-working immigration. Uncontrollable negative immigration starts again after the corona period without these changes driven by the Finns. It is therefore high time to reduce Finland's attractiveness as a destination country for non-working immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u9	Madam President! Dear Prime Minister and other ministers and colleagues! We live in exceptionally challenging times. The global covid-19 pandemic has tested us both in health and in economic terms. Not everyone's made it. We in the assembly are convinced that we will best survive now and the future together. We want to be a responsible actor, both in power and in opposition, but that does not mean that we do not have ideas, ideas, solutions and alternatives. We are not in politics looking for problems, but precisely looking for solutions to problems. We have supported the emergency conditions announced under President Niinistö's leadership and the introduction of the Emergency Act in the spring. We have wanted to be the keel, the stabiliser of the boat rather than the waver of the boat, but we have certainly told you what measures should be taken and what we would have done differently. The Coalition Party also wishes to thank Prime Minister Sanna Marin's government for having carried out our proposals — sometimes after a little longer and sometimes only under duress, but better than not at all. You will remember from spring the instructions and encouragement of the convention: do more and do more now than less and be late. The spring was quite a success. Thank you to all those committed to this work, and especially to the responsible Finnish people. Mr President! The main criticism of the Coalition Party has focused specifically on the management of the economy and, in particular, on the fact that the government has not been able to put forward any measures to strengthen employment. Mr Marin and Mr Vanhanen, you have been worryingly well placed to decide on expenditure; you cannot give you an acceptable grade on the income side. As early as spring, Seppo Kääriäinen, a strong centre influencer, tweeted to the government: “Speak up, but take courage. “ It's good advice, good advice even in difficult times. Last week, former president J. K. The birth of Paasikivi became 150 years. Paasikivi’s instructions to Finns were similar: “The recognition of facts is the beginning of all wisdom. “ We encourage you, Mr Government, to act openly, resolutely, decisively and unambiguously. Do not give the Finns the wrong impression and make them believe in half truth. Mr President! Finns deserve better. The formula for solving problems in the present left-wing government has always been the easiest solution. The solution has been further borrowing, the distribution of additional debt, and what is the most irresponsible, at the same time, the left-wing government has postponed all the necessary decisions. President Niinistö’s reminder ‘can’t be left behind’has been formed into the form of Minister of FinanceMatti Vanhassen’s mouth and table: It will not be for ever, Mr Government, and someone will have to deal with this debt base of yours too. Good Finns! There is also a responsible alternative to the current debt rally. It is faith-confirming, trusting Finns tomorrow. It's the path of hope. The coalition option is responsible and confident. Its foundation stone is in Finnish work and entrepreneurship, caring as a pillar. The Coalition Party's alternative budget would immediately create jobs for more than tens of thousands of Finns, it would appear in the everyday lives of many families, and this also includes the necessary employment measures to ensure that even more than 120,000 Finns and parents of Finnish children get a job, a permanent job. In the families of Aino and Leo, next year would be so much better. Parents would rather have jobs than just subsidies. Of course, these too are needed when the worst time comes — but the work, Mr Haatainen, is what the Finns want, a secure livelihood and the right to do. The Coalition Party would significantly reduce the tax burden on all Finns, pensioners and workers. For every Finnish citizen, more money would be available. [Base Finns Group : Except for motorists!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u19	On this point, I would like to point out in general terms that there must be no separate means of detection on the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u20	Madam President! The alternative budget of the Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group takes into account the difficult economic situation caused by the corona crisis. Municipalities, hospital districts, businesses and people who have lost their jobs and their livelihoods need support in this situation. There is good reason to take debt in the midst of the crisis. At the same time, we need decisions on structural reforms and employment measures that give us confidence that debts will still be overcome. It is unfortunate that the government has not yet produced any proposals for the necessary employment measures. I hope that you will get this momentum from the employment package of the Christian Democrats that we published last week in the context of the alternative budget. We should also have withdrawn projects in the Government Programme which, in the long term, increase the burden on municipalities, businesses and Finnish taxpayers. Despite tens of billions of debt, the government has engaged in major tax evasions. In this situation, instead of tax increases, we need tax recovery in order to keep the economic wheels running. Our parliamentary group proposes a number of targeted tax reductions to improve the operating conditions of companies and people's livelihoods. We are proposing a reduction in the fuel tax, a cancellation of the tax on heating fuels and a return of the household allowance to the level before last year's government cut. At the same time, we are proposing a reduction in income tax so that the taxation of any employee will not increase next year. [Right : Unlike the government!] As a result of the interest crisis, the economic challenges of families with children have increased. The main long-term problem of the economy, the age structure of the population caused by the decline in the birth rate, has not disappeared at any time during the current corona crisis. We propose a number of improvements for families with children. For families with children, we propose a one-off allowance of EUR 1000. We would also introduce a child-reduction tax on income tax. In addition, we are proposing a reduction in early childhood education fees for families with multiple children, so that siblings' contributions are completely abolished. This would increase employment and improve the position of families with children. The KD would also invest in apprenticeship training and combat exclusion through youth work and workshops. The educational material supplement for secondary students would be increased and extended to more families. The extension of compulsory education should not take place in this situation. [Right :Ein! ] In addition to the situation of families with children, we are concerned about health care, especially the state of care for the elderly. The implementation of the new carership has been postponed to several years, in practice to the next government. Many elderly people who need care now don't see that day. The KD delegation would immediately increase EUR 50 million to improve the level of care and hospice care for the elderly and to recruit additional staff. At the same time, we are proposing to convert informal care support into tax-free income. Contrary to the clear will of the parliament, the government has left the support of the food aid-sharing associations out of its budget. We call for a permanent budget for this and for clear rules on the distribution of aid. We would also return the allowance for coeliac disease and introduce a therapeutic guarantee. The focus on taxation must be shifted to products that are harmful to the environment and health. We would reduce the tax on fruit and vegetables and introduce a health-based tax on sugar added to products. We do not accept Finland's participation in the EU's recovery instrument and we are opposed to increasing intra-EU transfers and solidarity. After all, Finland will receive some EUR 3 billion from the new recovery instrument and will have to pay EUR 6 billion for it. On an annual basis, participation in the EU recovery package will increase the burden on Finnish taxpayers by more than EUR 200 million per year between 2028 and 58. Once the EU has put in place solidarity mechanisms for the distribution of money, it is likely that their size will be increased in the future. The Christian Democrats' line would already mean a saving of EUR 85 million in membership fees for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u21	Mr President, ärade talman! First of all, I would like to thank the government. However, it has reasonably consistently been able to take us out of the corona. There is hope if the pandemic begins closer to Christmas to calm down and vaccinations could begin immediately next year. This achievement and image of joint efforts should not be ruined by e-mail leaks wrapped in the fog curtain of requests for information. Then there are the consequences. It is clear that this year and next year the state will be in debt at a record rate. It's hard for citizens to keep up with billions. The opposition's role is to criticise and blackmail the government, but there is a great deal of concern about the future of children and grandchildren. The situation was bad even before the interest rate, which means that there is now a greater need for employment to rise. It's only by trying and working that you can break the debt cycle. The debt burden of a family of four is now EUR 100,000, and it is growing rapidly. The debt is from baby to grandpa. The debts of municipalities are not included. This should stop us all thinking. However, the next generation will pay either in the form of tax increases or in the form of service cuts if we are unable to dismantle unnecessary structures and operate more efficiently. From the August budget debate, the government sent employment decisions to the labour market table with the hope that it would not have to make them itself. Within three months, labour market organisations were able to achieve only a uniform social media message that no results were generated. The ball is back in the government, and it will soon be time to take decisions, and a lot more decisions will be needed. The government has to take responsibility. Strengthening employment is a key element of improving public finances and these decisions cannot be delegated elsewhere. Unemployment benefit must be reformed so that working is always worthwhile. Local agreement must be increased and employee representation brought into the boards of companies. Business taxation must be reformed to support investment, growth and job creation. Investment is a fine term, but it is a question of the owner of a factory having credit and having the confidence to acquire new machinery and hire a workforce, for example. A working week can be four days in the future when the fifth day is spent together in education. It is good to remember that Finland's employment was lagging behind the Nordic countries even before the interest rate. Therefore, these employment decisions do not allow time to be played. Now it seems that the government does not want to seek any solutions to these problems during this period, but that the billions of debt taken for the corona are trying to keep the skeletons in the closet. How can it really be that a government program should not be rewritten even in this situation? Minister of Finance Vanhanen revealed the ability of the government to act when he said that this group dared not open corporate taxation when no one could predict what would come out of it. [Laughter] Mr President, ärade talman! Mr Vanhanen's speech is a harsh description of the government's ability to act. Predictability of government decisions is lacking, and uncertainty about the future prevents and slows down investments in Finland. Without them, there will be no growth and prosperity. Ministers have talked about the progressive taxation of capital income and all sorts of things. These are the speeches that eat up predictability. Eating debt is taken at an accelerated rate. We are happy to share cake there and here, but there is too little to worry about how to grow cake. The government has put away billions of debt but has done absolutely nothing for the future of businesses, jobs and employment. The president of the city centre already opened the election work by proposing a new university in the provinces past the Government Programme. At least in Pori, Seinäjoki and Mikkeli, hope was awakened. I don't think even this throw before the spring municipal elections will be shot down. It seems strongly that this government is not capable of any reforms, but of taking debt in the shadow of the corona and keeping its own voters satisfied. We've focused on the treatment of the corona, and that's a good thing, but now we're in a hurry to start reforming. We'll do everything we've always done, and we'll make sure it's old and safe. We defend and hang on to the old structures, even if they are vital to building the future. Important decisions are not taken, and they are carried over to working groups with fear. In this Chamber, too, many have called for structural reforms for the indebted countries of the southern EU. All right, but we can't do it ourselves. Antti Rinne claimed, as a bus driver under the parliamentary elections, that he knew the common direction. Unfortunately, the direction of the demos, the government and therefore Finland is completely lost. The compass disappeared into the dark forest and the headlight ran out of battery. This failure by the social partners is the most recent example of how the benefits achieved are not compromised. Finland will freeze because of rigid structures and will not be able to regenerate and seek growth, investment and new jobs. Work doesn't seem to be the top priority of the government, even if it should. Debts are taken and grants are distributed, even though all expenses can eventually only be settled by working.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u22	Minister Vanhanen, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u23	Mr President! This is an important day in the parliamentary cycle. The opposition throughout the autumn has also been able to pass critically on the government's budget proposal and tax proposals, and now it is time to assess the other way round. Undoubtedly, I would like to take a good look at the details, but I am still trying to focus on the main lines of the options. We're still living in the middle of a pandemic. For the time being, we have survived both the health and the economic crisis with less damage than many other countries, and it is worth repeating that keeping control of the disease is the most effective economic policy in the near future. As many as seven amending budgets have been adopted over the past year. I appreciate the widespread unity with which Parliament has dealt with them. Of course, opposition groups have had demands for changes to individual budget proposals, including the epidemic compensation for the most low-income groups. However, the overall picture of the situation in Parliament has been consistent. The government must soften the blow on behalf of citizens, businesses and municipalities in an acute crisis. In September, the opposition raised the joint interim issue of this autumn period. It criticised the government for its indebtedness and suggested that the opposition had a common readiness for even hard-hitting employment. I will come back to this, because it was true that in the midst of a crisis that requires a political government and its ability to act daily and weekly, there would not have been the possibility of months of government negotiations if you had succeeded in the matter of the interim, but that the government should have been set up in the next few days. In the debate at the time, it was not clear whether the opposition really had a uniform employment policy, which it called for from the government. Now that alternatives can be read in these alternative budgets, the reason is obvious: the opposition has no uniform alternative to employment, [Heckling] Let alone the ability to form a new government. The same applies to taxation — the Coalition Party emphasises the taxation of disadvantages, while the Finns of Peru would reduce the taxation of disadvantages. The Coalition Party would tighten the disadvantages more than the government would suggest, and the Finns would go the other way. And it may be when you have listened to the debate of recent days that even in EU policy you would not find a common line. [ Hulls — The President knocks] In their own alternative, the Finns have ended up in the same deficit as the government — the difference is about EUR 70 million, which is about a per mill of central government finances. Is this the long-term deleveraging of EUR 70 million a year?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u28	I would remind you of the procedure that we are always dealing with the alternative budget of each opposition party for a certain period of time, and now I would ask for a reply that wishes to speak in connection with this alternative budget for the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u29	Mr President! It is very valuable that, even in the midst of the corona crisis, parliamentarianism works and opposition parties have produced their own options for the government's budget proposal. It has to be said that, in view of the amount of sound that has been used by the Finns throughout the autumn for debt — how it has been said that the government takes too much debt, misallocations — it is the great news that the Finns are prepared to accept 99.9% of the debt that is included in the government budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u32	Madam Speaker! Thank you, Minister of Finance Vanhanen, for seeing good things in the option of Finns, such as tax reductions for these companies. I am a little surprised, of course, when the Minister of Education, however, proposes to the government a substantial increase in the taxation of entrepreneurs as a result of those increases in the dividend tax. I don't know what the government's going to do, but we need predictability. The Finns have constantly said here that now the corona period must be revived. That is quite clear. It also means that most of the countries in the world are, admittedly, in debt at the moment. However, what is essential is whether or not these tax euros are used for domestic recovery. When you send development aid — which you will add about 170 million to next year — to Iraq and Somalia, how will it revive the Finnish economy? True Finns would like to spend this money on domestic work, industry and entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u33	Madam Speaker! This is a big day. When it comes to criticism, alternatives must be put forward, and it is clear from all these alternative budgets that opposition groups have put forward, that time is in the same direction — including the Finns of Peru. In this corona crisis, the Finns would take about as much debt as the government in its own budget proposal. Perhaps as the biggest change, I could not find any employment measures in the alternative budget for Finns. [Leena Sea interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u34	Madam Speaker! The problems with public finances are structural. Of course, there are some items on the expenditure side that can be cut right away and with the hand of the roost, and the corresponding money can be transferred somewhere where it contributes to the well-being of Finns. In the big picture, however, expenditure will never be contained if policy decisions are not taken to prevent and reduce the causes of expenditure. If the roof leaks, it makes sense not to invest in buckets and rags, but to plug a hole in the ceiling. The increase in social security expenditure will never be curbed if social security customers are imported from abroad. Employment and tax revenues will never be increased if policy decisions are not taken that increase the profitability of entrepreneurship and job acceptance. Unfortunately, these problems cannot be solved with a one-year period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u36	Mr President! There was already a need for employment measures for the Finns, but it must also be pointed out that the proposal of the Finns in question would reduce some 30,000 jobs in the next 18 to 12 years. If this 3 billion - grade recovery package is not accepted and it is carefully estimated that 100,000 per job will be achieved in the next few years, then it will be more than 30,000 unemployed. It is now the basic line of the Finns of Finland in this option [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u37	Mr President! It was quite a special speech from the chairman of the Committee on Finance that if Finland did not accept the EU recovery package, there would be unemployment — if we did not pay 3 billion to other countries to support their competitiveness and support their employment, to support their ability to take away business from Finland. For example, Estonia receives billions of money from the EU through this aid package — [Johannes Koskinen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u38	Mr President! We live in a well-connected world. Turning to a nation state alone and the idea that you are best off alone is not realistic. The internal market of 500 million consumers and the dismantling of barriers to trade and investment in the EU have contributed significantly to the growth of the Finnish economy, and the recovery of the EU is definitely in Finland's interest. As an alternative, the Finns of Peru propose cuts of EUR 500 million in development aid and also a reduction in the number of quota refugees to zero. All of this combined with the fact that action against climate change shines with its absence, shows that the Finns of Peru do not want to bear long-term responsibility for the whole ball or this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u39	Mr President! Minister Vanhanen mentioned this issue. At least there I remember mentioning that no one would question the need to take up debt in this situation. What the Finns are questioning is that the government does not seem ready to even make plans for structural changes that would make things easier for us in the future. Secondly, you are not prepared to make the necessary priorities. You share money as before, even more, and you dare to claim that it is now coming from the European Union so that you can continue to share more. This is an alternative budget planned for next year. Of course, we have a lot of views on the near future, for example on the costs of immigration, which we will have far greater savings than can be made in these articles.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u40	Mr President! Mr Vanhanen, Minister of Finance, is rewriting the rules of parliamentarianism, so there is no rule that the opposition should have the same line of action and the same programme. You know that perfectly well. I find it unfortunate that the debate is turning away from what is being discussed, namely the alternative budgets of the opposition parties. I myself learned during the Ministry of Finance that not so bad a opposition as not something good. It is worth genuinely listening to, getting to know, getting to know the things you can do there. Surely they can be found in the alternative of the Finns, in the Christian Democrats and in the Business Now. We'll show you our options in a few minutes. It is a question of finding things that can be done together, and that is why the opposition exists that we are making proposals to you. At the end of the day, you said thank you nicely, but before that, for seven minutes, you were barking.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u41	Madam President! In this country, no one needs immigration as much as the Finns. In the absence of immigration, the Finns of Finland would have no policy, because all politics are based only on the fight against immigration and the imaginative taking from immigrants. You're not very interested in ordinary Finns. [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: Take control of immigration!] Madam President! Since you have often said here that people need to be helped where they live, that they do not become refugees, now you are cutting off the very money that is aimed at ensuring that people do not have to flee. Is this the reverse logic, then, that you really want to cut back on the development funds that are trying to ensure that people do not have to go as refugees because you need refugees to do this in your policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u42	Mr President! The group president of the Centre Party, Kurvinen, suggested that he knew things better than the Finns, and that is why he should be listened to with an accurate ear. I would like to quote from his statement the main voice in the centre of Finland: ‘In our opinion, the increase in the tax on petrol and diesel is an unfair policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u43	Madam Speaker! I very much appreciate what Mr Junnila has said. Now I have the right thing to discuss, the cost of Finnish motoring. The fact is that if we do not reform transport taxation in the next few years, there will be a situation in which all taxes on motor vehicles will soon be paid by drivers travelling by ordinary diesel and petrol cars. I have written in Suomenmaa magazine that we need a reform, a kilometer-based tax, where driving in the city center costs more than driving on a gravel road or driving on the east and northern Finland's backswings costs. I would now like to ask the Finns of Finland: do you support such a regionally more equal tax reform, or do you think that fuel taxes will increase and hybrid drivers and electric motorists will not pay taxes in the future, but will drive ordinary petrol cars? In addition, I would like to ask again the leader of the Finns Party, Halla-aho: Do you support concentrating on a few large cities or decentralized Middle Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u44	Mr President! It is nice to hear how the centre here at the mouth of Mr Kurvise speaks so strongly and with emotion against its own government. [Department : Yes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u45	Mr President! I would like to thank the Finns of Peru for this alternative budget in that sense,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u49	Mr President! When the centre was in the opposition, you made a wide range of proposals and always estimated that they would produce dynamically so many hundred million, and with this you then lost those expenditure increases. It's a bottomless road. The Finns have not gone down this road, let me put it bluntly, of deception. During the last period, the Social Democrats put hundreds of millions of profits in their alternative budget each year with a Nordic financial market tax. What's taking him so long? You're in power now. And even the following year would not have been able to produce what you wanted. Mr President! The basic line for Finns is to reduce the tax burden on businesses and work. This will create employment, which will generate income that can deal with these problems, which are sorely present in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u50	Mr President! The opposition always forgets in employment that the very fact that companies have been supported here and now to cope with the interest rate has been the most effective employment policy in this period of time. You criticised the action by saying that there was no debt. If you look at the logic of the Finns, they have two things: development cooperation, immigration and the environment. [Department :There were three! ] In development cooperation, you forget that immigration is linked to what is happening elsewhere. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u53	Mr President! I was surprised by the ideas of Finance Minister Vanhanen that you were somewhat smiled at by these ‘prettiest remarks’ and that you are quite adjunct to these alternative budgets. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u56	Irade the Talman! Last year,the cover of the Finnish alternative budget said ‘Preparation for the basics’, and we all remember that the basics were at stake. This year’s folder’s are more honest”The basic Finnish It's an alternate reality where you play by different rules. On the basis of these proposals, we would hardly be part of the EU, hardly part of the UN, and the Finns themselves do not seem to believe this either.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u60	Mr President! It is clear that Finland is now in debt because of the necessary support solutions for interest and cyclical expenditure, and all the more reason to get rid of the waste and waste. That's what we're running in our alternative budget. You shouldn't take a debt for nothing. Things need to be prioritised. We reduce taxes, we cut back on nothing, we increase purchasing power. Not all use of funds is revitalizing. In addition to borrowing taps, the productivity of government machinery is another important source of financing for the crisis and the sustainability gap: the rationalization of public finances is by far the best economic and employment policy, along with limiting the pandemic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u61	Madam President! In the alternative budget of the Finns Party, in exactly the same way as in the Coalition Party and Christian Democrats, special attention has been paid to revitalising households and maintaining the purchasing power of citizens. Unfortunately, this is not the case with the government budget, but with the government tightening taxes on both housing and mobility and even work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u64	This is Minister Vanhanen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u65	Mr President! Regarding the alternative to the Finns of Peru: However, its key message for economic policy is that it has been drafted with a deficit reduction effect of EUR 70 million. So when we talk about a deficit of about EUR 11 billion, your alternative is EUR 70 million less. It is the big line that remains of this and one might ask whether it is an option at all. What is more, it has been achieved by means which, in my view, are not feasible when we go to the next budget year. Allow me to have this idea. Mr Orpo asked me if I would try to rewrite the rules of parliamentarianism. No, I've been doing it systematically this fall.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u70	On this point, I would like to say that this is where we are discussing the alternative budget for Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u71	Mr President! I have to say, Mr Vanhanen, that at the time of the mid-term question, there should already be a government programme ready for the next government. Of course, this is not the case. But we are talking about an alternative budget for the Finns, and our line is clear. We put money into Finland and Finns, we do not sow it around the world, because it does not bring the work needed to pay for all these debts, which are now going to have to be paid for this interest rate for a few years. At the beginning of this crisis compensation, I will just say that the THL, which is also a government expert body, has written on its 17 September page that this hit badly where it should have been, and that the real motives of the legislation must be read between the lines. I hope that you will also trust your experts here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u72	Madam President! Yes, I was surprised, namely when I listened to the speeches made by the Finns: at first I thought they were opposed to their own policy over the last period, when you raised gas taxes last season, you made support packages for Greece, etc. But, President-in-Office, the biggest surprise is that you are prepared to cut practically all the money from the Ministry of the Environment so that you can say that the Finns of Finland are cutting off nature. You understand, too, that nature cannot be cut off. You cannot cut away the clean stones and forests that Finns love, where everyman’s rights are exercised, or hiking areas with fires. This is what you're doing now. If you say hi, we don't, then tell me what. Yes, there are also funds there to combat homelessness, for example, or to repair the homes of the elderly and the disabled.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u73	Mr President! The shadow budget of the Finns is above all realistic. It insists on focusing on Finns at this challenging time. Efforts must be made to strengthen the position of industry and employees as well as entrepreneurship. Employment measures are at the heart of this and there is a long list of them in our shadow budget. Government, why are you massively attacking motorists? Energy charges are already rising so high that the price tag for living and trying no longer makes any sense. With the over-indebtedness, there's no change for the better. There's no humanity. Where are the measures to improve the situation of family carers? Among other things, there are investments in all these important points in the shadow budget of the Finns. And this does not cause the debt - taking automaton that the government is doing at an accelerating pace. The Billion Recovery Package for the EU is falling to our taxpayers with the government's blessing. Why are you agreeing to this, government? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u75	Mr President! True Finns speak one thing and do another. All autumn, you've been here barking at the government that the corona is being treated with loan money. Halla-aho has recently described the government's debt to rob the bankruptcy estate. However, your own option is based on very questionable savings, and yet the amount of debt does not fall at all. You claim to support the disadvantaged and yet you have opposed, among other things, the payment of the epidemic to the poorest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u80	Mr President! In the speeches made by the Finns, including Mrs Elomaa, concerns about Finnish industry were raised, and I will continue a little now with this proposal of yours to the Ministry of the Environment. It is surprising, of course, because if you think about what is most Finnish in Finnish under Independence Day, then the clean nature — the lakes and these — is really Finnish. Only we Finns can protect Finnish nature, and it is therefore surprising that you are so hostile to nature. But here, Mr President, under the Ministry of the Environment, we are also dealing, among other things, with permits for new industrial plants, and there has been a lot of congestion in the past. If you make such a cut here in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment, it will mean that new investments will slow down, and it is quite certain that some of the investments will not be carried out. Mr President! Do you really want to slow down Finnish industrial investment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u81	Mr Tavio's speech will be added to this section.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u82	Madam Speaker! It was nice to hear how the SDP defended Finland’s nature, and I believe that the whole parliament will defend Finland’s nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u83	Now we are going to discuss the alternative budget for the Coalition Party. I would ask those Members who wish to speak in this next debate to make a reply to the request.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u84	Madam President! Thank you to the opposition for the alternative budgets. However, compared to the budget that has just been discussed here, we must acknowledge to the assembly that you also have structural and employment-related reforms in your proposal — unfortunately they were exhausted from the alternative budget for the Finns of Peru. There is also, of course, the fact that it is quite legitimate for both the government and the opposition to demand and hope for them from the government, because it is a big question that Finland will be in debt for the entire decade that has now begun, that is to say, ten years on, we will be in debt. Even if we were to make savings of EUR 5 billion by the time we came to the next parliamentary term, debt will immediately start to rise again. The fact that we would only be able to reach the situation last year would require an adjustment of EUR 10 billion, so this will undoubtedly be discussed a great deal further. But I do wonder a little about the calculating head of the coalition and the pompous policy of how you, as a responsible state finance party, think you are going to get 32 million 330 million savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u85	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman. To the corners of this hand of cooperation. Employment reforms must really be decided now, this winter. They will have a few years' delay, but we must have the courage to decide now, and I hope that this will now be reflected as a change in the government's line. Minister of Finance Vanhanen, I appreciate you many, but here, when you pick out certain points that are the reforms that the SISU model of the information service calculates, you took the figure that the contribution of the assembly to the deficit would increase the deficit by 900 million, it is a completely windy idea. We have a budget cut of EUR 2 billion here, and then we will be taking a billion less in debt as a whole. After all, the point of making these alternative budgets is that we have shown that it is possible to choose 500 euros more for the Finnish average income — that is to say, a wage tax reduction of EUR 2 billion, a reduction in household income for the next level, a doubling of its level — and at the same time less debt is taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u86	Mr President! As in the previous year, this option for the Coalition Party represents a rather cold ride for the low-income. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u90	Mr President! This 'hope path' option budget is actually worth looking at. It has been done responsibly, and this will enable us to show that the government's economic, employment and social development policies have an alternative. The main difference is that our programme includes employment measures, growth-enhancing measures to control debt, which can pay for the important things that I could raise, for example, the implementation of the therapeutic guarantee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u95	Madam President! The Coalition Party put the package together at a slightly reduced price, and it has squeezed the pros into minuses and minuses into a plus. [Group : No, no! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u96	Mr President! First, Finance Minister Vanhanen: I remember when we were at the same table during the 2015 government negotiations, and there were rather bold and painful decisions made, and then no genius could say what the situation would be in a year or two from now by individual action. When we left then, Finland's employment rate was 68 per cent and our deficit had been over 9 billion for seven years, and let's face it, when we went to the end of the government term, suddenly we had the 72 per cent employment rate we were looking for and the public finances were almost in balance and the number of poor households in Finland had fallen sharply. Therefore, Mr Koskinen and Mr Kyllönen, the path of hope is precisely aimed at increasing numbers of Finns rising from poverty to a more prosperous person,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u98	Mr President! I would also like to express my thanks for the fact that the Coalition Party has carried out thorough background calculations, a much more thorough alternative than the Finns. There are other good elements here, for example, the recognition here that the environment and work today go hand in hand. There is also similar thinking to that of the government. But, Mr President, I cannot help not paying attention to two things: Whether times are good or bad, there is always a reason for the assembly to increase the disposable income of the most well-paid and to cut from the lowest incomes,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u101	Mr President! We are all proud that in Finland the welfare society has achieved the level of income differentials that are quite moderate in a hundred years, and that is how we want Finland to develop. This is a serious matter, and I hope we do not throw softballs at it. Even according to the calculations of the information service, income differentials remain at the same level as the government's proposal. This is because, while we moderate certain transfers and return to levels a few years ago, we are investing in getting the Finns to work. The most difficult are those who have been unemployed for a long time. You're also in trouble with your finances. If we have 100,000 fewer unemployed people, it is a great opportunity to help people get out of poverty. Moreover, this so-called nexti-wide household allowance means that low-income pensioners over 75 years of age, those working in the welfare society, would also be allowed up to EUR 1200 per year to purchase care services in a supportive way for themselves, even if there were no taxes to be deducted.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u102	Mr President! The coalition has been criticising government debt here throughout the year, but its alternative budget shows that, in this situation, debt really has to be taken. The Coalition Party would take almost EUR 11 billion, or almost the same amount as in the government budget. [Column Group : Billiards more! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u107	Madam President! Thank you for the floor. — Mr Vanhanen, you have, as you yourself said, offered a new lesson to Finnish parliamentaryism throughout the autumn: the parties that are in the opposition must form a new government without any present government party continuing. Tell me: When was the last time this happened in Finnish history? Was it when Fagerholm's minority government changed in 50 C.E. to Kekkonen's first government? Is it so strange to the stick that it could work with others, other than these red-green government friends, that you see that the only alternative is that the one who is now in the opposition would completely replace the current government? As far as this deficit is concerned, you went straight to page 13 and failed to read the next sentence on page 1. Information service: ‘The steps concern onlythereadylistedreformsets,and do not describetheimpact of the budget
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u108	Mr President! We must first thank the assembly for the proposals on the means of employment, but the proposal would increase the number of people on low incomes by 32,000. [of the Group of the European People's Party: No! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u109	Mr President! I hope that the Minister for Finance will now read the Hope Path option again and then comment on it again. If you do not believe the assembly, I hope that you believe Mr. Kulmun. He said that employment should now be expected from the government. After all, the government is destroying hope for the future. You are delaying employment measures, tightening taxes and living sorrowlessly on children. The Coalition Party would propose measures to create more than 100,000 new jobs in Finland. We would be less indebted — we would not go to your debt rally — and we would implement a therapeutic guarantee. When a person’s mind breaks, he often gets in line. According to the studies, up to half of them are not treated. All of us in Parliament were in favour of the Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative until a moment ago, but what are the government parties doing? The ugly consequence of democracy is that you will not even allow Parliament to deal with that citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u112	Mr President! I would like to say from the outset that the therapy guarantee will probably be supported from the side of this Chamber, and the treatment guarantee, and the therapy guarantee, will be in preparation. I am sure you also know that this timetable will not be able to be implemented, but we have the will that it will enter into force in Finland as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u115	Madam President! Minister of Finance Vanhanen: He blamed all other funding. I understand that, because today the only real funding for the city centre seems to be debt financing. Representative When I was Minister of Corona Management, my corner stated that ‘banks are to be distributed, state’. Now it appears that this has also changed:‘Share the left government, give Mr President! Yes, it is the best social policy that this path of Hope would bring 120,000 Finnish jobs. It would be to get away from unemployment and this would otherwise increase employees' income by EUR 500, for pensioners by EUR 300, for an average family of children by almost EUR 700 and for a small Finnish entrepreneur by EUR 500. There is a little truth in this debate, in which the details are now quite dishonestly removed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u116	Madam President! The news of the alternative budget for this convention is that the Coalition Party wants to undermine the security of supply in Finland, namely, in your alternative budget, you propose a cut of EUR 40 million in crew support for entertainment shipping. We do not only have entertainment shipping, but these passenger ferries, to which you are likely to refer, are an integral part of Finland's overall logistics chain and thus security of supply. The reduction of crew support would also remove well-employed passenger ferries from the Finnish flag. Passenger ferries carry more than 60 per cent of the exports of goods in bulk and more than 50 per cent of the imports of goods in bulk, i.e. half of our food, and half of our grocery and consumer goods, among other things. Like the Coalition Party, the Government is not prepared to jeopardise the security of supply in Finland or weaken these transports.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u117	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Salmon for his constructive contribution. That is precisely where we are at the heart of, namely these sustainable reforms that will boost employment and growth, which are what we need, these structural reforms. When this ‘structural reform’is a big word,I will give a few examples of what we’re doing Allow local agreement in all companies. You have promised to make progress, and I really encourage it not to remain in the pits of the trio, but to make decisions and go ahead — even with the trio, as long as there are results. Differentiation of earnings-related unemployment benefit will be implemented. It would promote employment. Let's make a therapeutic guarantee. That would be the best employment measures. Would it be terribly hard for people with mental health problems to get treatment? Reduce taxation on people — EUR 500 for ordinary employees more in the hand. Wouldn't it be great to encourage people? They would have more money available and would encourage work. Reduce early childhood education fees so that more and more mothers or fathers can go to work. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u118	Mr President! On several occasions, Minister of Finance Vanhanen has criticised the opposition's alternative budgets for ending up in the same amount of debt as the government's proposal. In my opinion, this is a rather peculiar argument in a situation where no one has questioned the need for a new debt in this exceptional situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u121	Madam President! The policy of the left-wing government has led to a tightening of taxation and punishment for hard work, not to be rewarded. Next year, a wage earner who earns EUR 3500 will receive EUR 130 less than this year — less than this year. This is clear from the calculation made today by the Taxpayer's Confederation. It can therefore be said that the government, this has not gone very well with you. The incentives to work are getting weaker and weaker, when it is we who should encourage Finns to work, and that is why the way of Hope of the Coalition offers Finland a new start. We want to reduce the tax burden on employees' labour, we want to encourage them to work and we want to increase the household allowance, and this will be done in a way that is sustainable for public finances in such a way as to reduce debt-taking in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u122	Madam President! Coalition Party, your line is holding. Once again, you are cutting off the most low-income people, the most vulnerable. You cut the housing allowance for students, families with children, unemployed people. You are undermining income support, which affects the livelihoods of the unemployed and the most low-income people. It is precisely the coalition that punishes students, the long-term unemployed, the elderly and the most low-income people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u125	Mr President! Apparently, there's been a different program than what we're presenting here. [Anneli Kiljunen’s interlude] Therapy Guarantee: One of the main reasons why people are away from working life, on sick leave — we propose doing it. Family leave reform: a proper reform of family leave, which would increase employment, would improve the equality of women in working life. Local agreement that would create the courage of entrepreneurs to employ. Reducing the tax burden on labour: not just because more work is done, but because people have a little more money to spend — more money left in their hands and could spend, buy services for Finnish companies, and so on. This is really a path of hope. There are good things here, things that I believe everyone in this room can support in their hearts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u126	Mr President! Now, Mr Orpo, it has to be said that you are not telling us how you would particularly fund these new benefits for the most high-income people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u132	Mr President! I'm trying to characterize this big picture again. Perhaps someone is following this broadcast, and the big picture over this sniveling is quite clear — I am not familiar with the basic Finnish budget, but this difference between the Coalition Party and the Government. First of all, although there is sometimes a hint of anything else here, there has been no disagreement about this current policy of recovery or debt. Secondly, there are far more structural reforms in our proposal that would increase employment and then create the budgetary gap that is being used here. Is this not, after all, a rather simple arrangement? The question here is whether this is something to discipline the poor or whether we believe in such effects, but these incentive effects are those that in other Nordic countries, Mr Kiljunen, are able to maintain a critically higher level of employment. This is the big difference.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u133	At this point, Minister Vanhanen for 2 minutes, followed by the group speaker of the Coalition Party, Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u134	Mr President! All the autumn, when speeches in this Chamber, not only by the assembly, but also by others, have warned against debt, so of course there is an interest on the part of the government in how much these options would actually affect debt next year. When I read this Parliament’s information service, I was, indeed, partially wrong. This is now the case for the synergy of the re-forms with the budgetary position,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u137	Mr President! The Coalition Party wishes to cancel the cuts in the household allowance made by the left-wing government and the centre. In fact, like Sweden, we want to double it to EUR 5000. We still want to make our own super-household deduction for the elderly and also for the low-income ones so that they can use the household allowance. This is a very important issue for many people and is strongly involved in this. Then one measure that has been overlooked is that all Finnish employees pay their own insurance cover for the moment of unemployment, but only those in the cashier receive earnings-related insurance. This path of hope would bring earnings-related unemployment security to all Finnish employees. That is certainly not what the Left Alliance and the Social Democrats are against either. But that's the biggest one of all, it's right here on the cover of the path of hope. Marin's government: 5,000 more jobs. Petteri Orpo’s Assembly: 120,000 unemployed back to the side of the job. That's the big difference.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u138	Let us now turn to the alternative budget of the Christian Democratic Parliament Group. I would ask those Members who wish to speak here to stand up and reserve the floor with a V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u139	Madam President! Mr Vanhanen, you are such an experienced parliamentarian that you are well aware that the opposition does not have a joint programme when it asks, for example, an interim question, even when the centre was in the opposition and, together with other opposition parties, it did not exist. It is therefore very theatrical and misleading to turn attention to the alternatives of the opposition parties and to the concrete alternatives to them, instead of talking about this joint programme. Then I would like to say that we have supported the government in its contribution to the interest rate, and we continue to give our full support to this, including in this epidemic payment for income support, which you mentioned, but now we really need the light on this end of the debt line which we have thus built together. Structural reforms and employment decisions that would gain confidence would be needed,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u140	Mr President, värderade talman! What may have fooled us all a little over the past six months is that there is often a great deal of concern about debt one day, both the KD and the Coalition Party and others, but then the next day there will be additional expenditure on any kind of action. When we were talking about our Swedish and Nordic neighbours, today when we read the Swedish trade magazine Dagens industrita, we talked about the needs to train a thousand new battery technology specialists a year. I believe that these courageous initiatives, strategic initiatives, should also be highlighted in these alternative budgets. This would bring interest, and we should all bring up initiatives of this kind.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u143	Madam President! I must say that when I read this alternative budget for the Christian Democrats, I was perhaps most surprised by two things. The second concerned the mandates related to climate change. Clearly, the Christian Democrats are not in favour of the government's objectives of climate change in Finland, nor of Europe, nor of global climate change. But the second thing I was particularly surprised about was that the Christian Democrats want to discipline pensioners and families with children who are on low incomes, including housing allowance, and that is why these EUR 400 million cuts to housing support are a very big blow for the most low-income people. I would now like a little response from the KD.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u144	Madam President! The main task of the Government and Parliament is to improve the conditions for work and entrepreneurship. This is one of the most important goals and tasks of the Christian Democrats. In time, we will even have to listen to claims from the government that tax-free dividends for entrepreneurs should be addressed. According to Finnish law, there is no case in which a company could pay a dividend to a person owner on a tax-free basis. Nevertheless, Minister Paatero said in the SDP’s party council that the majority of dividends are tax-free income. Unreasonable claim — read the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u147	Madam President! First of all, the representative A few comments to Mr Östman: I would like to know how the Christian Democrats feel about this traffic tax initiative in the centre. Are you prepared to make a lower tax on driving in rural areas and then in the centres of big cities along the road to public transport a slightly higher tax? Mr Östman knows that we are raising the fuel tax on a small amount now, that hundreds of millions of dollars will be made to develop the transport network during this parliamentary term. Mr President! I would also like to say to Mr Östman that, during this parliamentary term, we will not increase the taxation of entrepreneurship and ownership. It's on the government program, and we'll hold onto it with the Red Mule Government. President! Otherwise, this alternative budget for the Christian Democrats will perhaps be the best of these. There are many good withdrawals, such as the development of tourism. Perhaps, however, I should like to ask President Essayah when he has also been a member of the European Parliament: how would you unilaterally pay 85 million less EU contributions? Will you open up the whole of the EU budget? And what is the attitude of the Christian Democrats and other opposition:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u148	Madam President! First of all, Mr Kurviselle: you are now sitting on the board, so please carry out the multi-stations and this auto-reform by hand. This is not about the government budget, it is about our alternative budgets. [AnttiCall] It is extremely easy to answer the question of how we should proceed. The Christian Democrats have been telling us since last summer that this multiannual financial framework and the recovery fund should never have been brought together. And now that it seems to be in considerable difficulties at European level, it is very possible that a model will be put in place to decouple this recovery fund from this multiannual financial framework. We have calculated the difference between the collective debt that comes next year for us Finnish taxpayers and we want to take it away from these payments to the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u149	Mr President! Now, Mr Essayah, you did not answer my question. So I asked you that you must have some reason for wanting to cut off the most low incomes, pensioners, families with children and the unemployed, and also in housing costs you are taking up increases in the taxation of heating fuel — all these types of things that affect both housing and climate and environmental issues. I would like constructively from you now to explain why you are cutting the housing allowance for the most vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u150	Madam President! You might want to look at these calculations from the Parliamentary Information Service. It is precisely there that it is said that the Christian Democrat option favours families with children and also older people. On the other hand, it is true that this reform of housing allowance, which we have been driving strongly, is likely to have an impact at the beginning — if this model is not changed — in such a way as to reduce housing allowance. But if we consider that in this model of ours we have assumed that this general housing allowance, which is currently available to students, would be returned and included in it the allowance for the housing allowance, and here Parliament's Information Service states that this reimbursement of the allowance for the housing allowance has not been taken into account in the calculation because of the uncertainties surrounding the material, in the sense that this calculation, which comes from there and to which you may now refer, gives a weaker picture of this than is actually the case. I hope that the common will of this Chamber will be that these absurdly high housing costs can be brought under control.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u153	Mr President! I appreciate the fact that the Christian Democrats are concerned about the poor, often like the left. I wonder, therefore, that the Christian Democrats are now prepared to cut the huge EUR 400 million of housing aid, or about a quarter of the housing allowance. Housing allowance is targeted at people with low incomes, with a large number of families with children. Such a major cut would increase inequality and the financial distress of people who are already under pressure. The increase in housing prices and housing allowance expenditure is our common concern, but it cannot be solved alone by cutting housing allowance, but requires structural changes in housing policy. Mr President! The income side of the alternative budget of the Christian Democrats is unfortunately unbelievable: it is going to save EUR 100 million without really telling us how it will be implemented, and you now know that Finland cannot unilaterally align itself with a reduction in the EU contribution. There are also good things, such as investments in research and product development and innovation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u154	Mr President! We would like to change the current housing allowance system precisely because, as Mrs Essayah said, it is now flowing into these large companies, which means that we have the most expensive rent level in Europe in Finland, and it really does not benefit those on low incomes, but those with capital benefit from this current system. I would also like to stress that the draft budget of our parliamentary group would give the state new revenue and savings of a total of EUR 1.6 billion. Even if expenditure increased by EUR 322 million and tax revenues decreased by EUR 893 million, the Christian Democrats' proposal would still reduce the need for next year's borrowing by nearly half a billion. In addition to our shadow budget, we are also proposing an employment package that will generate 100,000 more jobs over the next few years. It is also worth looking at our employment package.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u155	Mr President! When reference has been made here and the Minister of Finance also referred to these calculations of Parliament's information service, you did not mention that according to these calculations families with children would actually benefit from this option of Christian Democrats. In addition, taxation would be reduced in all income categories, while the government is now tightening income tax, while this index check is only carried out by 2.5% — according to our proposal of 3.5%. According to the calculation of this information service, the impact on employment would also be 6000 more employees compared to the government proposal. We ourselves have estimated that this would be even greater — we believe in 10,000 jobs with this proposal — but is that not enough to convince you, Minister? I would like you to explain your point of view on why, for example, you are not taking up this cancellation of the household allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u156	Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u157	Mr President! Perhaps the Christian Democrats' proposal is the clearest of these in a certain way. I have just drawn attention to the fact that, here on the revenue side, you still have one-off money, first the cancellation of the Climate Fund's capital of 300 million, and then Sitra's 100 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u160	Mr President! Companies have been assisted during the interest rate, and that is a good thing in order not to create more unemployment. There is one thing I do not understand in this debate. There is talk all the time that the unemployment measures are being taken at 50,000, then others say to 100,000. Today, however, we have 43,000 job vacancies, and most of them too are those that people should not accept because it does not increase their income. We should rather discuss who will hire these 100,000, who will be pushed into the labour market, how we will get companies to invest, how we will get companies to hire them. It does not help to push those people into the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u161	Mr President! I was just listening to a book about the biography of Ponsse's founder, Einari Vidgrén.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u164	Mr President! I myself would like to thank the Christian Democrats for this rather clear alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u165	Mr President! It was a good thing that Mr Harkimo made a strong point in his speech now that all the opposition parties have said that some debt must now be taken up in order to carry companies, municipalities and people across this corona crisis, but at the same time we have to take care of that hope, we have to take the employment measures. He raised concerns about tomorrow, like all the opposition parties, but that is not the concern of the government. I myself am particularly concerned that the left-wing green government has created a short-term policy of civilisation. In your draft budget, almost all the new investments in education are fixed-term, and I ask why. Support for bus tickets, i.e. travel costs, which will remain permanent in the budget, but when it takes a couple of years, the hundreds of millions will be removed from it, the way in which early childhood education is developed, the way in which basic education is developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u168	Now let me say that we are currently discussing the alternative budget for Business Now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u169	Mr President! You, Mr Vanhanen, have now also heard about the alternative budget for Business Now, and I would like to ask — because, here on every side of the Chamber, it is believed that we will need an employment rate of 80% in the future — of these options, if you could now mirror what is most likely to achieve this result. We had this meeting between 75 and 75 in 25, i.e. the employment rate 75, the central government debt relative to GDP 75 and all these by 25. Which of these options do you think is closest to the ambitious target of achieving 80% employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u170	Mr President! As I recall, the Movement is now opposed to extending compulsory education with many other opposition parties. [Right : Yes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u171	Mr President! I would like to thank all opposition parties for their alternative budgets. It is valuable that opposition parties present their own options and also have calculations made by the Parliamentary Information Service to support them. This debate has, as a general rule, been proper, and I thank you for having made these alternative budgets. I would also like to thank Mr Harkimo for his very important speech. It is quite true that in this time in which we live, labour supply alone is not enough, but demand for labour is also needed. We need the investments in companies that will then be able to hire workers in the future. This was a very important and good speech and a reminder to all of us that we must at the same time carry out structural reforms on the labour supply side, but we also need investment, the keys to future growth in which the workers can then be hired.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u172	Mr President! I would also like to thank the opposition parties for these presentations of alternative budgets. I would also like to point out, in relation to the government's educational contributions, that during this parliamentary term, we are indeed investing both in permanent increases in appropriations and in future investments in education at all levels of education. In particular, there were also a lot of investments in education and training in the alternative budget of the Coalition Party. It is, of course, gratifying that the party's line in this regard has changed since they were in the government's responsibilities, when they cut both education and social security. Now, this alternative budget does invest in education, but it does so by financing these investments through social security cuts, that is, by increasing poverty and child poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u175	Mr President! I think it is noteworthy and it tells us well that both in the government's line and in the options of most of your opposition parties, a strong vision of the conditions for Finland's growth and a strong belief in the importance of education, research and development in it is emphasised. Some of you would even make more credible or less credible contributions to it than the government, but the most important thing is that these are all, as it were, creating a picture in Finland that there is life after this crisis and that Finland will succeed in international competition. In the speech by Mr Harkimo, the Movement, you have taken note of my opening remarks as to whether the Finnish higher education network is now a good one or whether we could see even more of the higher education network based on the strengths of the regions. I do not deny at all that I do not see a certain difference of view here, for example, in the opposition party's assembly, which has had a strong focus on higher education policy. I have a strong vision that there is a great supply of higher education institutions not only in the capital region but also in Finland, and I see close links with the development of the region's business life through collaboration between research and development and business. That is why I felt that the opening of the debate was necessary, and I hope that you will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u178	Mr President! I would just like to correct the claim of a downtown representative that the Movement is now opposed to extending compulsory education. That's not true. We have criticised the fact that it is being done on too fast a timetable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u179	Yet again, Minister Vanhanen, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u180	Mr President! When Business Now did not have an actual discussion initiative, I am not in a position to assess the actual alternative budget here. The representative, Mr Wallinheimo, asked for an assessment of these employment measures by opposition groups. Yes, the activities of the Assembly are clearly the most extensive and concrete, but from the point of view of decision-making, I would like to draw attention to one point in which I would encourage you to think again: You, by far the most important body in it, are the proposals made by the officials of the Ministry of Finance, but you deliberately cut out one of them by mentioning that you do not support this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u184	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u185	Mr President! I think this Finnish way of doing and going over alternative budgets for opposition parties is good. Why? Because it actually forces opposition parties to think and to come up with different options and their own solutions, which, in my opinion, should be the number one task of every self-respecting opposition party. Each of us here knows how easy it is just to criticize and point out different problems. However, people long for solutions and actions. I think that we have achieved an excellent result in our alternative budget, and I can be genuinely proud of that. Some may have wondered about the deficit in our alternative budget despite all the indebtedness criticisms. I have said this before in this Chamber, but I would like to repeat it once again: especially now, because of the interest rate, debt is necessary and there is nothing wrong with it. However, it is a question of the whole, of what is to be done to counterbalance indebtedness and of how to balance the economy in the longer term. I think that this will perhaps be our most important difference with the government. In practice, throughout the whole parliamentary term, we have called for credible employment measures on the part of the government. ‘Waiting for them’ was There was at least something about the budget debate, but unfortunately little, given the seriousness of the situation we are in. If we want to stick to our welfare society in the future, raising the employment rate is absolutely absolute. Interest is not an excuse not to do so; it means that we must do more. That is why I am particularly proud that, in the alternative budget, we are proposing employment measures which, according to various estimates, would bring work to some 120,000 people. There are ways, so in the end it's just a matter of will. As decision makers, we must also have the courage to make unpopular decisions. We will never solve our problems if we just promise debt money to everyone all the fun without clear means and a plan to balance the economy. That is why I believe that the greatest defenders of the welfare society are those who have such a plan and will to implement it. Mr President! In addition to being proud of the overall picture of our alternative, I would also like to raise a few specific points which I consider important: The first of these is the implementation of the therapeutic guarantee. I have been pleased with the fact that in recent years more attention has begun to be paid to various mental disorders and to the scale and severity of the problem. For the same reason I have been a little annoyed when the government has failed to seize the possibility of a therapeutic guarantee. We wouldn't. Second, to make funding for equality in basic education permanent and to invest 20 million in supporting the achievement of basic knowledge and skills and the catching-up of the learning gap in the corona year. Every year thousands of young people leave comprehensive school without sufficient basic knowledge and skills. This has been a problem even before the corona, but now this investment is more important than ever. Thirdly, I would like to highlight the consolidation of the operation of interest rate dogs. In baskets, I see the potential to help us cope with the current situation, and they can help to keep our society more open and secure. It is true that there are still open questions about the use of dogs in testing and we still need more research, but I believe that every means must be used to get on with life as normal and safe as possible. One final move is to invest in the actors in the crime chain. I understand that we are the only party still committed to raising the number of police officers to 7850 man-years. As a reminder that before the elections, all the parliamentary parties were committed to this. But we are even better off: we are committed to raising this to 8,000 man-years. We are also presenting additional efforts to the downstream actors in the criminal chain, which is important in the rule of law for the realisation of citizens' legal security. Mr President! Given the overall picture, I believe that this is a very good package, an indication that the coalition is not just here to criticise, but that we really have a good and credible alternative. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u186	For the sake of clarity, let me say that we are now going to go over the matter, until the end of the debate, according to the list of speakers, and then move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u187	Mr President! Finland’s sustainability gap and indebtedness are tearing out of control even without interest rate costs — the government’s actions, options, will only make the situation worse. The future of the economy is blurry and growth uncertain. The government's ideological environmental goals and actions do not allow growth in real life. The only sure consequences of the current policy are the ever rising taxes and costs for citizens and businesses. The ever-increasing public finances are suppressing potential business growth and new jobs. Our public finances in relation to the economy as a whole are the second largest in both the EU and the OECD. A net reduction in the size of public finances is also the only way to cover the sustainability gap and put an end to indebtedness — only in this way can the tax burden be reduced and companies' ability to compete and pay, as well as the purchasing power of employees, and only in this way will the core and basic services of the most vulnerable be secured. The current state budget process fails to provide comprehensive guidance on effectiveness and cost-effectiveness. The alternative budget process is a painful example of this. Simply towing or moving appropriations from one item to another is not enough to create and guide the necessary changes — a deeper management of change is needed. Future governments and Parliament should continuously assess the public value of operations and services in relation to the purpose of the state. Today's government can't do that. All activities which do not contribute to the fulfilment of the State’s purpose must be abandoned. That is what the alternative budget of the Finns Party is trying to achieve. In other words, each year we must aim to reduce the state's performance and expenditure on matters of low value or even negative value and replace them with matters of high value to Finns. This has a direct impact on the so-called transfer costs of the budget, which represent more than 70% of government expenditure. This also has an indirect impact on consumption expenditure in service production, which is the remaining nearly 30% of government expenditure. The ministries must be required to remove everything that does not add value to the outcome. Consumption expenditure on service production shall be calculated on an annual basis in a target manner. Timely and effective services prevent problems and make them worse, also reducing transfer costs. Mr President! Finland’s economy is in a negative spiral, in which bad policy decisions swell the public sector. The longer it is allowed to rotate, the more difficult and more powerful it is to correct the cycle. The government of Prime Minister Marin has no intention of stopping the cycle. As the relative size of the public sector and the economy declines, tax and labour costs can be reduced. This is a sine qua non for the recovery of private business and employment. This will also reduce the automatic cyclical expenditure of the state, such as unemployment expenditure, make it easier to cover the sustainability gap, creating a positive economic cycle. The sustainability gap of around EUR 5 billion in public finances could be covered by relatively small annual net expenditure reduction targets. Removing waste and waste does not undermine the value of services for citizens and Finland. In addition to limiting the pandemic, rationalising public finances is by far the best cyclical and employment policy. Finland needs a government that has a moral backbone, will and ability to make the necessary changes — changes that reduce the tax burden and improve the competitiveness and pay capacity of companies and the purchasing power of employees, changes that strengthen the Finnish economy and safeguard the citizens' core services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u188	Mr President! We Finns care about Finns and we love Finland. If people in this Chamber think it's populism, then it's populism. We are proud to defend Finns, Finland and its countryside. We also want the cottage grandmother to have a good and balanced old age, she lives anywhere in Finland. We want our children to have a good school path, whether it be in cities, suburbs or rural village schools. The vitality of villages is also maintained by increasing the support of village shops, and for that I thank the government. It is great that all just over 200 village shops could continue to work to increase the vitality of villages. Eleven per cent of our area of cultivation is peatland in our country. Our agriculture's security of supply and self-sufficiency will always depend on peat fields. We want important peat production not to be driven down. You are replacing peat with an import application, but growing peat and peat are almost irreplaceable ecological products, even export products, for the agricultural sector and poultry and livestock farming. There is now a lack of comprehensive study for you, Mr. Government, and a Finnish entrepreneur is thus being squatted. It is now impossible to rationally justify the dismantling of the sectors that work. We are pleased here that China has announced that it is aiming, in other words, to be carbon neutral by 2060. What does a country do at the same time, where we produce less than a per mil of emissions? We are already a model student at world level with regard to climate action. This will not change even if we move our tight objective of carbon neutrality forward. Will it be up to us to support the 15 to 25 years between the earth and the countries that pollute the most with us? In view of the economic crisis caused by this interest rate, we should not get ahead of ourselves. We need every job in this country, but we are owed debt when the government creates this sustainable development and economic policy. What is important is that, as one of the leading countries in education and research, we create new innovations and inventions, which will enable us to respond, among other things, to the challenges posed by climate change. A huge opportunity for a small country and our exports. Although we live in exports, it is good to remember that 90% of companies are micro-entrepreneurs of less than ten persons. The threshold of EUR 2000 for general subsidies for the government was already too high in the last round. That is why the limit should have been reduced to EUR 1000, as we Finns have proposed. Similarly, we see the introduction of the Estonian model as an incentive for taxation. The tax burden on labour must be reduced, and the reduction in the household allowance should also be cancelled. We cannot afford to transfer companies' activities through tax and other regulations to other countries. A few weeks ago, during Question Time, I asked the Minister for Finance whether the government had taken into account the importance of the vitality of rural areas. For example, pensioners will suffer from increases in transport and heating fuels. There are 200,000 oil-warming homes in our country, half of which are for low-income pensioners living in rural areas. I also asked if the government programme was to make a tax reduction for pensioners. How can the taxation of beneficiaries of informal care be reduced? We know that family carers are worth billions of dollars in terms of central government finances, not to mention the human side, which cannot and must not be measured in any way. The answer of the central finance minister was indeed a glaring message to the low-income pensioners and citizens living in rural Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u191	Mr President! When looking at the alternative budgets of the opposition, I am pleased to note that we are all quite in line with the same approach as regards the interest rate. We recognise the difficulty factors it brings, both in terms of health safety and financial management. We are also all concerned about the pace of debt, but we accept massive resuscitation. The purpose of the recovery is, of course, to push people and businesses over the crisis. Each party seems to interpret resuscitation a little in its own way, so that its own favorite children are on the receiving side and the less enthusiastic points are left without money. Although the big picture is quite the same for all of us, there is reason to look carefully at the alternative budgets of the opposition. We must not allow ourselves to be blinded by billions, but even smaller things must be looked at with the seriousness they require. Korona is taking most of our attention now, but other matters also need to be dealt with. Climate change and fiscal imbalances have not disappeared anywhere and will certainly return to the front page after the interest rate. All the opposition's alternative conditional budgets suggest cancelling the capitalisation of the Climate Fund. 300 million will be spent on capital, and I personally see it as an effective measure to solve the big problems at the moment. The Climate Fund supports companies to develop circular economy, clean technology solutions and energy efficiency, for example. These are not very trivial objectives. That is why it is a strange and partly peculiar perspective to demand it out. Mr President! We know that Finns are opposed to immigration, but I still wonder about their desire to cut development aid. Development aid is the instrument to help people in the countries of origin and to curb uncontrolled migration. The Finnish line has always been involved in international agreements. They are the advantage and security of a small country. Finland is a welfare state that has been doing well for quite a long time. I am happy to allow us to continue to be helpers and not helpers. Mr President! The coalition's alternative budget is commendablely ambitious and hopeful. 120,000 new jobs are not too big a target. However, according to the party's line, the alternative budget must also be centralised and unequal, and I cannot really find the cause of the poor in it. This year has shown us the new benefits of a decentralised society. For example, it has not been necessary to close the whole country down, but it has been possible to impose restrictions by region since autumn. Finland is a large country with its own strengths and weaknesses in different regions. One of the most important tasks of the state is to help disadvantaged people and regions. In line with the Government, I have particularly enjoyed strengthening educational opportunities around Finland. In its alternative budget, the Coalition Party proposes significant tax reductions. The reduction in income tax, the doubling of the household allowance, the reduction in the value added tax and the gradual abolition of car taxes are in themselves worthy of discussion. However, I do not see the benefits of these proposals for those who do not get along well. So the Coalition Party is not concerned about the cause of the poor. President! The alternative budget of the Christian Democrats also contains good proposals that are worthy of debate. Children, families and family care are concerned. However, as far as the Christian Democrats are concerned, I wonder: you have a need to perform — and actions speak for themselves — on the side of families.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u192	Mr President! As Christian Democrats, we see that we have a much better and more targeted chance of supporting secondary education when we invest money specifically in young people who are at risk of exclusion or learning problems. First of all, we believe that these targeted measures are more effective for these people themselves, and I am sure that money will then also be better targeted when it comes to precisely what is needed, because even today the problem is not that young people do not apply to the second stage — they just do not stay there when they do not have sufficient capacity. Now I would like to go through the alternative budget of the Christian Democrats with a little cursoryness and point it out — as has been shown in many speeches here — that the opposition itself has no objection to the fact that we have temporarily fallen into this indebtedness crisis. We understand that it is better for the state to take on these major attacks, and in this way the state must support the municipalities and, in particular, ensure that these basic services can be provided there. We also understand that companies must be escorted across this valley of death. On the other hand, first and foremost, we must invest in the treatment of the corona, and now, of course, at this stage, we hope that we will soon be able to get into the vaccines as well. It is well-founded to take this debt in the midst of this crisis, but at the same time the government should definitely have withdrawn reforms of the government programme which, in the long term, will increase the burden on both municipalities and businesses as well as on Finnish taxpayers. This situation is now completely different from that when the government programme has been written in due course. Instead of these additional expenditures and additional obligations, structural reforms are needed to support employment and welfare, and unfortunately it is precisely these employment measures that have been expected here on the whole of the opposition. The government's policy of recovery is also one of some criticisms, because, despite tens of billions of debt, the government has still engaged in major tax evasions, which are mainly directed at the purchasing power of the citizens. Now it is really important to keep the wheels of companies running and also the purchasing power of the citizens in order to ensure that we in Finland do not dive deeply. Here in the alternative budget of the Christian Democrats, we have raised these forms of tax recovery, which we would specifically target citizens, such as cancelling the cut in the household allowance. Now that I have tried with a little precision to listen to the government’s voices around this issue, I have had the strong feeling that perhaps this matter is being corrected from the government’s side — let’s hope so, because indeed this would be something that would help, for example, those living in an ageing Finland to obtain more services at home and thus strengthen their ability to cope. Of course, then, these various renovation services and others will have an effect on the fact that the informal economy will not be created in that sector. The withdrawal of the increase in fuel taxation and also the cancellation of the tightening of energy tax are the measures that we really want to tackle these government tax evasions. We would reduce income tax, because unfortunately this government index check does not affect the increase in side costs. We would have raised Alvi's threshold to EUR 20000 and would have given us more opportunities for small start-ups. A great deal has been said here about the importance of investing in this development as well, especially during the debatable period, Mr Strand, rather than simply transferring funds between different categories, and here, for example, KD has taken a strong position on the sustainable development of tourism, the promotion of research, development and innovation, and also on the acceleration of the transition to the real-time economy. These are the things that the KD really wants to be looking towards the future. Of course, there are a lot of these in the Christian Democrats' alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u193	Mr President! These alternative budgets of opposition groups are a reasonably new invention in parliamentary work and in Finnish parliamentaryism. If I don't misremember, these started in the 2011-2015 parliamentary term, and this is an elegant and fine way. It's the way the opposition gets out loud. It is always valuable in parliamentaryism that alternatives are presented, and when the opposition has a handwritten role in parliamentaryism, that the opposition always complains and is always too much, too little, or at least inadequate, or is generally wrong, then it is quite appropriate that the opposition then occasionally presents its own options. Mr President! I am going to go through these alternative budgets for Finns, the National Coalition Party and Christian Democrats from my own point of view. Firstly, President-in-Office, the observation is that these mainly have the same economic policy line as the government. For example, no opposition group would go far less into debt next year than the government intends to take. Net borrowing moves roughly in the same numbers. That is quite reasonable and perfectly understandable, because I believe that all economists and experts agree that, if there is a situation in which we need to revive and now we should not destroy the slightest economic momentum and flame by going into surgery and the consumption of people and the consumption of households will stop once and for all. As far as the alternative budget of the Finns-based is concerned, there are indeed about the same levels as the government, the same structure of the budget. Perhaps the biggest problem is that there are no employment measures. There are no structural proposals on how to get more people into the labour market. There's no such thing as real. There is quite a lot of activity on these immigration issues, on development issues. [MariBantasy Call]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u196	Mr President! The policy of the left-wing government is discouraging work, not encouraging it. Next year, every employed person will have less of his or her salary in his or her hand than this year — not more, but less. For example, a wage earner who earns EUR 3500 per month leaves EUR 130 less in his hand than this year. Left-wing government policy does not encourage entrepreneurship or strengthen economic growth, decisions are postponed. There is a complete lack of a plan to end the debt. This is not a responsible policy, Mr left-wing government. Mr. Speaker! Finland needs a fresh start. The Coalition Party offers a genuine alternative to government policy, in which work and hard work are always rewarded, whether it is a student's job, gig work or full-time work at any income level. We are proposing an income tax reduction of EUR 800 million for wage and salary earners and pensioners. On average, an employed person gets more than 500 euros a year. In addition, we will double the household allowance to EUR 5000 and increase the percentage reduction in the allowance. For over 75-year-olds, we create our own super-household reduction, which encourages elderly people to obtain services at home. The Coalition Party is the party on the side of the ordinary employee and entrepreneur who wants people to get along on their own salary. Everyone who works must have a fair cut of their own work and effort in the hand. Reducing the tax burden on labour and raising the household allowance will create room for economic growth and higher employment as Finland is being rebuilt now after the corona crisis. The household allowance also provides a lot of new work for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who have been severely affected by the crisis. Mr. Speaker! The alternative to the Coalition Party has been built in a sustainable way for public finances. The tax burden of hard-working Finns will be reduced, while at the same time creating room for new economic growth. At the same time, the option of the Coalition Party will increase employment by more than 120,000 persons. Central government debt is cut by more than EUR 1 billion and public finances are strengthened by more than EUR 4 billion in total. Finland now needs a fresh start, and the alternative to the Convention, Mr President, offers an excellent proposal. I hope that the ministers and the government will now go through this carefully. At the end of the day, when Mr Kurvinen, whom I very much appreciated, spoke here about the alternative budget for the coalition and the system of terrorism, you could actually say that the government's employment policy has been one system of terrorism, this whole year and a half, which this left-wing government has dominated this country. Mr Kurvinen said that, according to the calculation of the Parliamentary Information Service, the alternative budget for the Coalition Party would only bring 18000 jobs. This is the case, that is, this method of calculating the information service is not able to take into account all the reforms that we have in our option, but we have been able to calculate and gather together the effects that the option of the collection clearly brings the most work to the Finns in this country. Therefore, staring at the calculation of the information service alone is not profitable in this respect. As a second point, which concerns this fiscal package again: the Coalition Party has put forward the financial means to reduce the tax burden on Finns at the same time and to make corresponding expenditure by reducing transfers that, firstly, the tax burden will fall, indebtedness will decrease and we will have a higher employment rate, which will result in a further reduction in social security expenditure and increased tax revenues resulting in a total consolidation of the public finances of more than EUR 4 billion. It is already a good start in overcoming the sustainability gap and putting all this public finances in order. Mr President! Let me put it this way: if this left-wing government is going to get a maximum grade, then this is going to get us a lot further in the class.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u197	Mr President! I have listened to all three hours of this debate on these alternative budgets, and also the government's response to it, and I would say that the biggest difference in the alternative budget for the Coalition Party is that we have a clear plan, a path of hope, to how 120,000 jobs will be created in Finland. We have been waiting for a similar plan from the government all year long and, of course, especially this autumn. Another key difference between the other alternative budgets and the government budget is that our option would leave more money and pensions in the hands, well over a billion in total. In practice, this would mean around EUR 500 per year for a middle-income Finnish. We also believe that, regardless of whether it is a pension or a salary, the person should have the same amount in his hand. People should be treated equally. Mr President! If I took a few lifts from this path of hope, the first thing I would mention is the household allowance. That has been the subject of much discussion here. That is currently EUR 2250 per year in the government budget, and the Coalition Party would like to raise this amount to EUR 5000 and remove 100 euros in full. Here, among other things, the Minister of Finance has commented that this current household allowance has not been used enough and that it has been spent on an average per household of around EUR 1000, but our answer is that the scope of the household allowance or the extent of the household allowance to which it can be used should be extended significantly, firstly, and secondly, that bureaucracy should be abolished. In Sweden, for example, there is a system in place whereby the deduction, that is to say this tax reduction, is already reflected in the purchase invoice sent by the service provider to its subscriber, i.e. in practice, the entrepreneur takes care of the bureaucracy that makes buying easier. And, Mr President, we believe that this would be a good way to be able to employ SMEs in particular. I would like to mention the super-household reduction, which would be our hand-out to those over 75 years of age, and also to those over 75 years of age who are still deprived. In other words, for a person with low incomes that cannot be reduced to this tax deduction, we would hand over 1200 euros a year to buy these services, that is to say, it would only be available if these services were purchased. Mr President! As a second lift from this path of hope, I would raise the income limits for student support. We have been talking about this too for a long time. In Finland we are lagging behind the other Nordic countries, it is just under EUR 12,000 a year, what students can currently earn without losing student grants when it is closer to 19,000 in Sweden, Norway and Denmark. We in the alternative budget of the Coalition Party would be prepared to increase this by 50% and we would see that this would also be the way out of poverty for many students and would also bring work experience for the future. Mr President! As the third lift, I hope our path will be different from our therapeutic guarantee. We all know that mental health problems are, at present, the single biggest reason for the transition to disability pension. They have already passed through, for example, musculo-skeletal disorders. We have estimated that if a person were guaranteed access to treatment within four months, we would be able to bring thousands of people back to work and have an annual employment impact of 5,000. Then, Mr President, I would like to raise another quite different issue, which is the abolition of car tax within four years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u200	Mr President! You never talk too much about safety. This is important for all of us, and in this context I would like to raise the police budget and the government's policies and a little election promises from our alternative budget. The election vows began to move that we would have about 7850 policemen. The Government Programme finally came to 7,500, and the current forecast of implementation for the end of this year would be 7,388. Next year, the government has pledged an additional EUR 4 million to finance the police in this respect, and it will employ some 60 police officers, but these paid tasks will be fixed-term. This then causes its own problem in the field. What happens after a year remains a little unclear. In our alternative budget, we have started from the fact that 8,000 police officers are the goal that is needed for Finland. And then from this big picture: Among other things, Mrs Kiljunen said that why is it always cut from the poor? The Gini coefficient, that is, this income distribution coefficient, will in practice remain unchanged. Entrepreneurs benefit, families benefit and employees benefit from a reduction in taxation, and the government becomes less and less indebted. In other words, against that background, the criticism of our alternative budget seems disproportionate. Last but not least, I would like to raise this reduction in the household, when we have spoken in a somewhat unkind or somewhat degrading way — not in this debate, but it has been said in the past — that this is such a maid's allowance or money for work. This is the money that enables Finns to buy intangible services and well-being and focus on their own work, on the work they have been trained for, and to have professionals carry out the jobs that professionals have been trained to do, and on entrepreneurs who have focused on providing the services. Well, then it has been said that not everyone has enough income to make that deduction. Our model, here in the alternative budget, says directly, would give up to EUR 1200 per year aid to those whose taxes are not sufficient to make a reduction, that is to say, direct aid. This is kind of like this kind of hybrid model that it can have a tax deduction or for some then direct support. And, best of all, Sitra estimates that this whole is cost-neutral.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u201	Mr President! A few comments on the alternatives put forward by the opposition: If I leave this line of the Coalition Party, it must be said that this wonderfully headlined Hope Path option is, however, a rocky path for many unemployed, deprived and disadvantaged people. The proposals that have been included here in relation to those groups are a very strict discipline policy in such economic times and, above all, in the midst of such a crisis. I understand the longer-term objective of the convention, but it is precisely for 2021 — the budgetary year which will inevitably continue to be hit by the interest rate, its management and the consequences — that these proposals relating to cuts in social security are extremely hard. This is an act that beats someone who is already in the ground. In this respect, I would like the assembly to have forgotten this part. Of course, as was mentioned earlier in the day, we do not have much disagreement about recovery policy, but the kind of economic policy that is being pursued in the midst of the crisis must be responsible. Perhaps, however, the greater amazement is linked to the alternative budget for Finns, not so much to the picture of economic policy, but perhaps to the broad picture of foreign policy that we have dealt with in this Chamber, particularly last week. You tear up Finland's long-term foreign and security policy, based on stability, predictability and multilateral cooperation. You want to turn inwards, break up international relations, question our actions both within the UN and within the EU. This government wants to address many root causes. That is why this government has also invested in development cooperation. The cuts you are now proposing are anything but a focus and a touch on those root causes. It is easy for me to agree with your presentations as far as the police, Customs and Border Guard are concerned. These are exactly the presentations that the Red Mule Government of Marin has made: we are increasing the number of police officers, increasing the number of prosecutors and increasing the number of judges. Marin's government is tightening up the law on terrorism and increasing the defence budget. So the line of law, justice and security that the Finns of Finland present in their alternative budget is almost similar to that of Marin, and it concerns domestic politics and internal security. But in addition to internal security, external security must be ensured, and the cuts you propose in development and international cooperation are the main threat to our external security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u202	Mr President! Maria Viljanen, Head of the Welfare and Health Unit of the Finnish Red Cross, said today how, for example, the number of students and families with children has increased in food queues. 81.5 per cent of their respondents felt that food aid was essential for their survival. The Finnish Red Cross is concerned that so many people still have to resort to food aid in Finland. In other words, so many people still have to resort to food aid in Finland. At the same time, Mr Salmon — well, Mr Salmon spoke of the world’s famine — criticised the cuts in development aid, just as Mr Ovaska did now. In the midst of such a crisis this year, the government will increase the budget for development cooperation by EUR 300 million. The appropriations were already close to EUR 1 billion before this year and now exceed EUR 1 billion. As Mr Koskela spoke earlier, we Finns care about Finns and love Finland. We want to help people mainly here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u203	Mr President! A few comments on these alternative budgets: First of all, thank you to the opposition. They are mainly relatively well prepared, and in most of them I think the importance of the position of entrepreneurs and businesses is well taken into account, the fact that work and entrepreneurship are being created in this country, so that we can also pay this big bill in due course, which we are now jointly thinking about for Finland in this corona crisis. I must also say that a certain degree of unity has been found here. Even in that early autumn, the Finns said, among other things, that these debt figures for the government are so huge that they fear that billions of blindness will plague the government, and now, as has been noted today, quite the same debt figures for both the Finns and the assembly. I do not know whether it is a good thing or a bad thing that this same debt blindness now bothers us all in this Chamber. Equally, I firmly believe that young people have a future. We need to invest in young people, and in that sense I would not like to join the group youth who have already been barking up the budget option of their own party in quite a few words. I am not going to go along with this saying that I would be so cruelly barking at the alternative budget of the Coalition Party as the youth have done, but surely the Coalition Party can then read and perhaps also discuss why they have made such cruel and mean comments on the alternative budget of the Coalition Party. However, I personally would not dare to talk about such a budget of hopelessness when, at least in your rhetoric, it is a budget of hope. Perhaps two withdrawals from that draft budget: Of course, the increase in vehicle tax is very disappointing. It hits people driving old cars, especially in the provinces, often disciplining the only form of mobility that people have in those provinces. Now to the previous speech on police and security: Here, as the government has pointed out, there is a paper on increasing the number of police officers, and even in this motion the precise figures have not been given when the 8,000 will be reached. This government has stated that the number of police officers will reach 7,500 during this parliamentary term. In addition, I am pleased that the government is hiring new prosecutors, investing in a prison facility and taking measures to improve internal security and external security. Although a few words of criticism were said earlier on about this government police policy, there is no doubt that on the same page both the government and the assembly are on the same page.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u204	Mr President! I would like to thank the President and the Presidents, as well as the House, for the fact that I believe that these alternative budgets of the opposition have been treated with dignity in this Chamber, and it is great that there can also be a critical debate on these different options. I hope that, for its part, the alternative budget of the Christian Democrats, as well as the other alternatives of the opposition, could be in the process of extorting the government now in this situation for even better work. Of course, the greatest concern that has arisen over the opposition, and I believe that many of the governments also share it, is that we need light at the end of the debt tunnel in this situation. Effective decisions are needed to see that the debt can also be settled in the agreed period, and indeed these employment measures are needed. I know that today the government, at least with regard to this pension line, is negotiating, and I hope that the government will start to take those decisions because until now, from one month to the next, we have been following only promises that have always been made and decisions have been transferred to these working groups, which unfortunately have not come to fruition. In this alternative budget, the Christian Democrats will be putting forward measures for next year to reach 10,000 additional jobs compared to the government proposal. Then, in this employment package that we presented last week, we are looking for a total of 100,000 new jobs in the longer term. In my opinion, these short-term and long-term objectives have been somewhat mixed up in the debate here, including the option of a coalition, i.e. the government parties have mixed them up. It must be understood that there will be measures for next year and then there will be a longer period of time. We also attach great importance to tackling the measures that have been raised specifically by entrepreneurs. In particular, local agreement is possible in all companies. That's what we need to make decisions about. Similarly, this extension of earnings-related unemployment benefit to everyone and its staggering so that it would always encourage people to accept work as quickly as possible. The introduction of an entrepreneurial account according to the Estonian model could also lower the threshold for becoming an entrepreneur. In this alternative budget for next year, we are also proposing an increase in the VAT threshold of EUR 20000, which could be used to encourage these smaller companies. More means must be found for apprenticeship training. Similarly, a further reduction in day care fees so that it is precisely in the case of families with multiple children that these siblings are completely abolished would then enable parents to take up a job, because at the moment it is simply not always worthwhile to take up a job. In the longer term, it would be important to speed up the reform of social security on the front, in line with the KD's model of encouraging basic security, which aims to ensure that everyone has a high level of basic security but that it is always worthwhile to take up work. Mr President! I would have liked more to have been focused on these points, on the way forward, but I hope that there will still be opportunities for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u205	Mr President! We have just had a lively debate here on the alternative budgets of the opposition, including the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. In my opinion, both the National Coalition Party, the Basic Finns, the Christian and the Movement Now they have worked hard on these alternative budgets, and they have serious proposals for what the government should do. I must say that I am mildly disappointed by the way the government dealt with these alternative budgets. It was obvious that these had not been read. It was also obvious that the Minister of Finance had taken over these alternative budgets a little carelessly, because the details were not clear, and I hope that, when the opposition makes these proposals, the amount of respect would be paid to the work that the opposition is doing, that the ministers would look into them, so that their possible knock-out or praise would take place on the basis of facts and not on the basis of emotion, as has just happened. In particular, the Coalition Party has made important and well-thought-out proposals in its own alternative budget on how to bring the economy up and how to increase the number of people employed in the country. On our path of hope 120,000 Finns get a new job. This was very much criticised, and we are happy to be more specific, but it also surprises me that when we make a calculation of 120,000 employed persons and so have the Finns of Peru also made proposals for new jobs, the Christian has a good plan and Business Now, the government has no such plan at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u208	Mr President! I would like to thank the opposition parties for these alternative budgets, and it is quite true that it is of course important that different views and alternative budgets are carried out in this Chamber and that their content be discussed critically. Of course, we are also looking forward to good lunches, what the role of alternative budgets could be at best. However, it must be said that, for example, the alternative budget for Finns is a little like this contradictory, i.e. speaking of another and making another. For example, you have been barking at the government throughout the autumn for treating corona with loan money. However, this option of yours is based on very questionable savings, and yet the amount of debt is not reduced in practice at all. You say you support the underprivileged and excluded. However, this autumn you have been opposed, for example, to the epidemic compensation for the poorest. On the other hand, you have said that you are strengthening employment, but there is not a single employment figure in your alternative budget, and if you then ask for it from the Parliament's information service, you will get a calculation: the modest 4000 more jobs. In addition, I am amazed at this magical wall of immigration costs, which the Finns of Peru seem to be the source of funding in every debate. In other words, you have proposed, for example, a cut of EUR 156 million in the reception costs of asylum seekers and refugees. However, the state budget does not even propose such a sum for this purpose, but totals EUR 104.6 million and, to a very large extent, only EUR 131 million. Furthermore, it is highly questionable that you are cutting half of development cooperation, which is almost EUR 500 million — there is no responsible policy — and that you are cutting 40% of climate action and nature conservation, which in practice would drive down both national parks and the acquisition of nature reserves. Almost a quarter of the funding would also be cut from the public radio. In other words, savings in a highly irresponsible policy. On the other hand, I have to admit that I was delighted that a celiac allowance was being proposed for reimbursement and a refund of the class of reimbursement for diabetes medicines, an increase in the protective component for enforcement and so on. In other words, good, human measures have also been put forward there, and I warmly support them in the sense that they are important. But then again it must be said to the assembly that when the coalition is cutting social security by over 400 million next year and care services for the elderly by 330 million,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u211	Ärade talman, Mr President! Thank you to the opposition parties for these alternative budgets. I think it is a really good way to go through government spending and revenue in this way. For a long time we have the same view on this debt-taking, and as Mr Kopra has pointed out, there are concerns about debt-taking, but we must remember that we are in such a health crisis and the world is also in a great debt-taking situation in other countries, and here we have to look to the future and think about how to get rid of these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u212	Mr President! The so-called alternative budget for Finns seems rather sudden, and I do not think there is any real alternative. That already applies to such a small part of the budget, which is in excess of 1%. I would like to wonder about this proposed cut in development cooperation, EUR 500 million. President-in-Office Halla-aho has considered it important in his anti-immigration appearances to help people close to home country, the country of origin, yet the Finns of Peru still want to cut the development fund, that is, the instrument that would help people there in the countries of origin. Of course, it is not a special surprise that the True Finns have again found development cooperation as their cutting point. I think that development cooperation is well founded, and this kind of cut, which is now being proposed by the Finns, is absolutely impossible. It simply cannot be done. Development cooperation requires a long-term approach, and Finland participates in the financing of the European Development Fund, the World Bank and other development banks as well as in bilateral projects that may be made for three years, i.e. this is not possible, and this is already doing that this whole alternative budget for the Finns of Finland is empty. Well, then I'll leave the coalition alone now that I got a little comment on it in that debat. As far as the Christian Democrats' budget is concerned, there is such a big cluster of these different proposals that there is always something good there, but I wonder what year the Christian Democrats have made this alternative budget, whether it will be 2021 when they have these different measures which, in circumstances such as circumstances, take a lot of time. For example, the reform of housing support: the audit committee had a study that concluded that housing aid reform was not the solution, but that increased housing provision was the solution of housing policy. Then there is the introduction of a health-based tax on added sugar: time will pass when sugar and added sugar can be separated. Here is the limitation of the tax exemption for membership of social partners,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u213	Mr President! I will briefly comment on a few speeches that were made here after my last speech. First of all, Mr Ovaska said in his speech that the coalition is making a cold employment policy. I see this in the light of the fact that, as Mr Orpo pointed out earlier, we have a very broad range of measures from the reduction of early childhood education contributions to the introduction of local reconciliation to the use of non-organised employers, which, however, would also be a relatively rapid legislative action, the differentiation of earnings-related unemployment benefits and so on, and so on — a number of measures consisting of this 120 000 employed. However, the best remedy for reducing poverty in Finland is that people get to work and get to a better life and higher incomes, and that requires that we also be able to make the structural reforms that we give people hope and also a view of a better tomorrow. It is also a question of what kind of policy we want to take in this Chamber at all. Or is it the point of view of what we have already discussed today that this left-wing government year after year is tightening the tax burden on Finns so that the working Finnish is left with a pay slip, which is less paid by God every year, and at the same time the ability to buy services, purchasing power, is weakened. Is this the line we genuinely want to promote in Finland? Mr Könttä said that debt blindness also plagues the coalition. It's not like that. We have presented a package in which, first of all, we are able to make large-scale income tax reductions in such a way that it does not weaken public finances. We also have spending cuts. It is a perfectly clear game that this must be done. First of all, the option of the Coalition Party reduces government debt by more than one billion. It will lead to a reduction in the tax burden on ordinary Finns, a significant increase in their purchasing power, and it will create jobs for the service sector again. Increasing the household reduction is a very effective means of supporting small-scale entrepreneurship in particular. In addition, these 120,000 employed measures. And all the same, through higher employment, through strong economic growth, these measures will lead us to a situation where, in reality, the alternative to the coalition will strengthen public finances by more than EUR 4 billion. However, if we start from the fact that we have proposed measures which will now be able to curb this debt-taking and get moving as soon as it looks like it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u214	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Little has been heard by the eyes and ears. With clear eyes, representatives of the government parties and even ministers here say little about what happens, remove individual points, individual sentences. Mr President! It seems that the only place where Prime Minister Sanna Marin's government and government parties are sparing is the truth. The truth has been spared in this debate, in these attacks, which have been carried out here by representatives of the government parties and even by ministers. For example, even at that stage of the debate, Mr Kiljunen, with a clear eye, told the truth about the alternative budget for the coalition, which was completely altered, or just a moment ago, Mr Katja of the Left Alliance. At least as far as the alternative budget for the Coalition Party is concerned, there was no truth in his speeches. That is regrettable, because these debates are, however, being listened to and quoted and individual points may be removed, and it would be good for everyone to stick to what is proposed in these alternative budgets and not to remove individual sections. Perhaps it has become quite clear during this debate that the coalition is actually the only party that has been able to propose ways of balancing the debt ratio. With the alternative budget and employment measures that we have presented, we would reach a 75% employment rate. This would have an adjustment effect of EUR 4 billion out of the EUR 5 billion required to equalise the debt ratio, i.e. four fifths would have been covered by the risk of employment measures being taken. These measures would also be needed from a purely human perspective. However, this debate has also been disturbed by the fact that it has been slightly implied that work is not what people expect. Ladies and gentlemen, these people, who are unemployed, are waiting for work. They want to get away from the job, and that is the best social security for every person. The Coalition Party would not make an adjustment through the expansion of public debt, but through the expansion of household purses. In this alternative budget, we have concrete employment measures to get 120 000 people employed in this country. If the government does not want to implement them all, it would at least do something, then this government would even have a positive impact on its own employment policy. The situation is that the measures taken by the Sanna Marin government have made our unemployment even worse — and I am not talking here about unemployment and layoffs caused by the interest rate, but, quite specifically, about the measures taken by the government of Prime Minister Sanna Marin. Well, we want more of your pay and your pension. We are prepared to reduce taxation. We want to cancel the drastic cut in the household allowance under the direction of the centre, raise the household allowance to EUR 5000, and we would like to welcome the RKP to the same front. — Step away from the left-wing government, which does not take the measures that Mr Ollikainen, for example, mentioned earlier. They will be implemented by the centre right, and the assembly will be happy to deal with it with you here. — We also want to make a household allowance in such a way that it supports all pensioners, including those on low incomes. We have our own special targeted support there. Well, to the end. What, then, would the alternative to the Coalition Party mean to ordinary Finns? The pensioner's EUR 292 increases the amount of money for use, the average working Finn's EUR 500 and the average family's EUR 700 and the entrepreneur's EUR 500.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u215	Mr President! About 20 years ago, the first alternative budget was made in this house. I was in the parliamentary group that did it, and that is where the matter has started to roll. Today we have had a good debate on economic policy and on the options in economic policy on the basis of the discussion initiatives. It is extremely important that there are alternatives. We usually have the impression in public and even in this house that there is only one option to live on and there is no other. That's not true. There's always an option. The Government Programme and the decisions to be taken on the basis of it move forward, and they are one option. Now we know what the front page of the coalition's alternative budget, the cover, tells us well that the government's option next year will amount to 5,000 new jobs. It is extremely little in relation to this situation that we have. Yes, the government needs to find better provisions to lift Finland out of this misery in which we are now and which seems to deepen. Unfortunately, that 5,000 may not be implemented by government policy, but may also be a minus sign — and how large a minus sign — not just because of the interest but because the government has outsourced employment policy to seven different working groups already set up during Prime Minister Rinte in August 2019, 16 months ago. Those working groups have become one of the performances at the end of last year, the dismantling of the active model, and well done. Since then, virtually nothing has happened. It is inconceivable that the government should shift the most important issue, employment policy, out of its responsibilities and wait for something to come out of it. Such a government should not enjoy the confidence of anyone, but unfortunately, for example, the centre, which has once been the party of entrepreneurs, has become fully committed to and submitted to this policy. It is incomprehensible that such a situation can and will continue. Mr President! We need rapid and effective measures for employment policy. There are some in the alternative budget for Finns. They have not been identified as such, but are largely tax-related, through labour market reform and so on. They're not in there separately. These measures will create jobs. And as we have just heard and reminded here, the respected late MP Outi Ojala — a Member of the Left Alliance, who was long in parliament and was also a representative of the European Parliament — has remained alive with the phrase ‘best working social security’. We have hundreds of thousands of people without social security because they do not have a job, even though they are willing to work and capable of working. We have to get them a job. Models and alternatives are available, but the government does not seem to be missing but is waiting. And, as we saw this weekend or at the beginning of this week, even on this issue of pension pipelines, the organisations could not agree. That small change was also half-way, without a result. This is the policy Finland is now living in, and it is fatal for this country. Mr President! We need entrepreneurship now, we need industry that can survive on the world market, we need research efforts to raise Finnish productivity, we get tax revenue for which the government is very good at sharing;
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u216	Mr President! The general situation is completely exceptional as a result of the interest rate and the economy is in turmoil. I am well aware that the government is reviving economic policy in this particular situation, and it is necessary to take out debt. However, it would be good to see beyond the crisis and to bear in mind the fact that the problems with the state budget were enormous even before the interest rate. Deficit spiral is not a good thing and must not become a new permanent normal. It is irresponsible now to live wide and leave the bill to future generations to pay. How many of us would walk out of the restaurant without paying the bill? Politics is value choices, and this can be seen in the economic guidelines of the Finnish shadow budget and the Red-Green Government. The government is making decisions about the nation as a whole, not just supporters of the government parties. Responsibility is the key word. Economic policy cannot be done by a mere fire of emotion, because decisions have a long-term impact on the future. It must also be borne in mind that Finnish taxpayers' money is invested in projects that are objectively reasonable and in the interests of Finland in particular. The government prefers to waste tax money to promote its own ideas, no matter what the cost. The increase in expenditure is financed by debt money, as the government's employment objectives were over-optimistic even before the interest rate. The government's environmental policy is highly respectful. All parliamentary parties are certainly in favour of a clean natural environment and a healthy environment, but environmental measures need that famous sense of proportionality. As a result of the oversized activities, for example, increased daily expenditure is incurred through, among other things, the cost of driving and heating. In addition, companies are becoming more difficult to operate and some even cease to operate in Finland. Last time we've seen the news, we've seen it with the turf entrepreneurs. Even the Prime Minister’s emergency screams will no longer help when the factory lights out and people become unemployed. China thanks, and darker and darker smoke comes out of the chimneys. The opportunities for rural areas to work and try are also weakening, and at the same time the vitality is fading. Above all, downtown, do something about the government. The budgetary option of the Finns Party is based on the fact that vaccination of ordinary Finns and companies with actions that do not flinch climate issues on a global scale is not sensible. We are proposing, for example, to cancel the tax increases in transport and heating fuels. In support of domestic industry, we propose an increase in emissions trading compensation. We are in favour of reducing the tax burden on labour and of facilitating the taxation of small entrepreneurs. I cannot understand the government's appeal to cut the household allowance that promotes Finnish work. On the contrary, the household allowance should be extended and the share of ownership reduced, which would, for example, facilitate the situation of low-income pensioners. Environmental targets are also driving the use of peat into the ground. It should be recalled that peat has many other uses in addition to energy use. It is an excellent, safe and really good growth base material for animals. In addition, peat employs a lot of people. The government has no practical solutions for filling the gap in peat and securing jobs for the people it employs. And the transition period in the peat drain — if we are to be honest, it seems that there is hardly any. Even though the government is ruining the life of a normal Finnish citizen and pushing companies into a tight spot, it will increase development spending by as much as 200 million. However, the donation of Härskei's Finnish money is through the EU Recovery Fund: more than 3 billion losses are coming to taxpayers. In addition, the economic responsibilities of our country will increase as a result. It is not fair to ordinary Finns to any extent that, in the midst of the corona crisis, the government is pushing money abroad, researched precisely inefficient development cooperation and the Southern European Recovery Fund. This will increase debt-taking in the future. We also propose the taxation of capital income from large foundations and cuts in party funding. Overall, the government should adopt budget decisions in the interests of Finland, but it looks really bad. The price will be paid by present and future generations. Mr President! Finally, the urgent need is to improve the situation of family carers, the protection of children requires a great deal of money at the moment to make things better, to save jobs and to promote the activities of small businesses —
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u217	Mr President! Here a few hours have come after listening to this debate, and I was about to take the floor from my seat, but I had to walk into this toilet now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u220	Ärade talman, Mr President! As a further clarification and add a little to my last speech: Mr Kankaanniemi highlighted, among other things, the importance of research, entrepreneurship and exports, and I have just raised this issue of employment and the value and importance of exports, which is very important to Finland and, among other things, to Ostrobothnia, of which I am myself. It is these export companies that employ thousands of people, that make their living through it, and, among other things, there are companies that make energy-saving products. Sometimes, hopefully even quite quickly, when rising from the interest rate, there are a lot, many opportunities to employ in this area, including through the Climate Fund — here the KD actually suggested that EUR 300 million will be withdrawn from the capitalisation of the Climate Fund — and, of course, this EU stimulus package will be found. That is exactly the kind of money that is really important when we get out of the corona in the future and it creates jobs. We have also seen through digitalisation, now that telework has increased, that there are really great opportunities in this way, and that is why I am a little surprised at this increase in KD, that this capitalisation from the Climate Fund would be cancelled, because it is a really good investment in the future that the state is now raising in this budget for next year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u221	Mr President! Today, in this Chamber, we have indeed dealt with alternative proposals from various opposition groups for the Marin government budget for 2021. As a parliamentary group for the Coalition Party, we published our own options, the path of Hope. It is strongly geared towards sustainable growth, giving and creating hope, supporting new jobs and entrepreneurship, employment growth and, consequently, economic growth and stronger public finances. We really need this path of hope. We have been living in this so-called corona swamp for almost a year now, and the view of the longwoods and how to cross this swamp gives us this path of hope for the Coalition. Our alternative creates new growth and strengthens people's purchasing power and also narrows Finland's excessive tax wedge. During this exceptional period of interest, the day-to-day life at home has changed in terms of both work and other needs and practices, and older people in particular have needed help with care, cleaning and food supplies. Small renovations have been made in many homes, even though changes in heating methods or renovations of leisure homes have been made. There are therefore many good reasons in this time to expand and increase the household allowance and create a so-called super-household allowance for over 75-year-olds. Not only does it make the wheels of the economy run and promote work at home, but it would also create thousands of new jobs, according to experts, and at the same time it is an effective means of preventing and reducing the black economy. These are all common objectives, but I wonder why the government's means of achieving these are very different. On the contrary, the government has cut and reduced the household allowance, as we should be doing otherwise right now. How about we trust Finnish people a little more? Indeed, an improved household allowance and a different support model would be provided for over 75-year-olds. The maximum reduction in the service purchased would be increased to 70% and, at the same time, the Coalition Party has proposed that aid of up to EUR 1200 be granted to all those who cannot benefit from the household allowance due to the small amount of income for the purchase of services. These allow seniors, regardless of their income, to obtain the services they need specifically at home. Last year we proposed that it should be possible to use the household allowance for energy renovations and installation on a wider scale and also for equipment procurement. Mr President! Mental health problems are one of our biggest people's diseases, and unfortunately the corona period has made the situation even worse. The waiting times are unsustainablely long, and they discriminate between people from all over Finland. The therapy guarantee will ensure that people with mental health problems do not remain alone, as many of them are today, and especially if you consider how much they also burden their loved ones when they do not receive help and support. Therefore, the therapeutic guarantee, in terms of humanizing this service, would also enable us to have more people capable of working and, at best, create jobs. The Coalition Party would also make strong investments in new growth. We propose that two billion high-speed rail connections and one billion higher education institutions be capitalised from the state balance sheet. In addition, we present hundreds of millions of investments in knowledge and research in the alternative budget. We all know that Finland, as an export-driven country, has always established a high level of competence and its processing and also high-quality research and innovation and business from there, and this is how it should continue to be in the future. In a certain situation, when we are living in an economically challenging time, it is also time to invest in a new one. In our path of hope, the employment rate will become stronger and the government will be less indebted than the government's draft budget. Employment would be strengthened by a budget of up to 120,000 people in the workplace. Mr President! To conclude: it has certainly become clear in the Chamber that the assembly does not commit itself to raising and binding the compulsory education age for 18 years, but instead to basic education and early education, the best years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u222	Mr President! It is necessary to comment here on Mr Kiviranta's speech, in which he said that the alternative budget for Finns is not feasible and is not realistic. After all, politics is an art of opportunity, of which, in fact, the coalition is an excellent example in this Chamber — it always succeeds on any basis and even against its own party line. Anything happens when you want it. Now we have raised the issue of this development aid cut, which the Finns of Finland have. It is a little bit the case that there is a great deal of commitment to development aid, but it has been done for 40 years, and they are, as a rule, still the same countries to which this money is going. Perhaps this is a good thing to distinguish between the kind of project wealth that we finance to a large extent, and then this humanitarian aid, which is the emergency aid that can also be used to improve the conditions in refugee camps or other areas of crisis. Yes, it must be said that if we are not allowed to cut anything out of the fact that Finland, for example, is paying as development aid for reducing smoking in Kyrgyzstan — one example of this project Huma — I think it is very special that this side should not be criticised here. After all, the government is now adding 175 million to development aid next year in this economic situation, in this indebtedness. As well as it can be added, I think it can also be reduced. I was looking at these results here, and I do not think we have much to say about Finnish development aid for posterity either, if it is not rationalized and if it is not done in such a way that if something is done, it will certainly help the country in real terms where it is needed, or that they will learn to make some product that they can sell, which will improve their own financial position. On the other hand, it really seems that these development aid funds are, as a general rule, going to this project project project project and to the hiring of these officials and people who are going to build wells more insecure in the middle of the forest, where there is no head or tail. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u223	Mr President! I too am obliged to intervene in these development cooperation funds, as this has now been particularly denounced here. I hope that those people who disapprove of this will read this alternative budget of ours. There on page 7 it is stated that in 21, Finland will pay 1.2 billion in development aid — 1.2 billion — and we will put 500 million out of it. This is because, as Mr Rantanen said, it has been increased by nearly 200 million for the current year. Firstly, we would now withdraw these increases. When we talk about how we separate, it is precisely that prioritization and the basis of values. Let me take an example: in the alternative budget of the Finns Party, 20 million have been set aside to reduce the tax burden on informal care subsidies. It is a fraction of this 1.2 billion that we are putting into development aid. We propose that family carers — those who are under heavy burden who care for their spouse, their parents, their children — receive this support through favourable taxation. But there is no money for it, and it is a shame here that we should withdraw the increases and invest them in the people who pay the taxes. As Mr Rantanen said well, if this had been solved by mere lashing out money, this would have happened by now. We should commit this to their own actions: curbing population growth, enforcing return agreements and many more. We should have parole there. But if you are not interested in a Finnish and Finnish taxpayer, then there is nothing you can do about it, and then you can say, as you have just said in that Social Democratic speech, that these have now been acknowledged, or what it is now, if you really take them so lightly. In this speech by the left, it was also said that we seem to have this immigration as an eternal place where money can be obtained. But we must remember how much of these immigration costs have been reduced to every single administrative sector. As an example, I take income support: in the capital region more than 40 per cent already. . .
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u226	Irade fru talman! Förra veckan beslöt ricksdage enhälligt att höja bemanningstödet till sjöfarten med 7 milioner euro för att underlätta rederiernas situation och för att hålla exportvägarna öppna under coronapandemins förödande ekonomiska effekter. Det var ett mycket bra beslut. Jag vill taga samlingspartiet för att man var med och tog det ansvarsfulla besluet och höjde bemanningstödet med 7 million euro. I dag presenterar partiet ett förslag om att i stället skära bemanningstödet med 40 million euro. Det är ganska ologiskt jämfört med förra veckan. Att skära i bemanningstödet på det sättet som samlingspartiet nu föreslår skulle vara ett dråpslag mot Finlands handelsflotta och betyda att samtliga ro-pax-färjor skulle behöva flagga ut från Finland. Sannolikt skulle alla ro-ro-fartyg också behöva göra det. Det är dessa fartyg som är ryggraden i Finlands export- och importinfrastruktur för styckegods. Finland är en ö i Europa och dessa fartyg är en viktig del i Finlands försörjningsberedskap — en roll som utländskt flaggade fartyg aldrig kan fylla av rent juridiska skäl. Riksdage skulle aldrig i en kristid kunna överä ett cypriotiskt eller ett Panama-flagat fartyg på mosmä sätt som vi skulle kunna göra med ett finskflagat fartyg med finsk besättning om krisen skuille vara framme. Därför behövs också bemanningstödet för att säkerstalla att vi har fartyg under finsk flagg. Irade the Talman! För tilfället är det i practicen ingen som reser ord på fartygen för nöjes skull. Färtorna har dirt mycket passagerare som långtradare. Senast jag kom till Helsingfors med frarjan från Stockholm via Åland till Åbo var det 80 passagerare omodord. På billäck var det äremot fullt, nistan 70 långtradare — 70 långtradare på bara ett fartyg under finsk flagg. Varje dag är det Hundratals långtradare som går på dessa fartyg. Om man skulle skära bemanningstödet med 40 milioner euro som äreslås, skulle man äventyra circa 5000 finländska arbetplatser, varav över 1000 i både Egentliga Finland och i Nyland samt hundrals i Österbotten, Satakunta, Häme och i Birkaland. Samtidigt skulle man fördyra för exporten. Jag tror ju inte att man har säknat med den oxeffekten då man gjorde det här förslaget. Det är ändå det ox som skulle reserve verkligheten. Jag hoppas åtminstone inte att man förstått att det raus skulle bli resultatet om man skulle genomföra det raus förslaget — men det skulle bli resultatet. Irade the Talman! För några veckor sedan diskuterade vi rai i plenisalen ett förslag om att änka farledsavgifterna med 40 million euro. Argumentet då var att man wild minska kostnaderna för exporten. Nå, vad skulle hehda om man skulle ta bort det ox bemanningstödet? Jo, det skulle hoja kostnaderna för exporten. Det är latt att säga att man vill skära i bemanningstödet för att få bort nöjeskryssningar, men jag tror att man inte alltid förstår kopplingen till exporten och importen. Det finns inte ett enda renodlat chryssningsfartyg under finsk flagg. Alla försor är avgörande för Finlands export på rutterna som går till Estland, Sverige och Tyskland. Det ser vi i synnerhet nu under pandemic med alla de långtradarna omodord. I budgetförslaget är hela bemanningstödet på sammanlagt 92 million euro. Det kommer dock gå betydligt mindre pengar från det momentet. Inte för att ett activt beslut görs, utan för att flera finländskt flaggade fartyg tuvarr nu ligger upplagda. De fartygen som vä kör, kör med betyligt mindre besättning, ena cheaperad eller så med ännu mindre besättning. Det raustödet korrelerar nämligen helt till 100 percent med de lönekostnader man faktiskt har för finskflaggade fartyg och de sjömän och befäl som får lön därifran. är man permitterade eller arbetslös behövs inget bemanningstöd, aven om ett stöd naturligtvis kommenter behövas från ett you give budgetmoment från samhället. Irade the Talman! Rederierna och sjöfarten går igenom sin kris i modern tid. Vi behöver hjälpa, inte stjälpa möjligheten för rederierna att överleva krisen. Vi måste säkerstalla att fartygen finns kvar under finsk flagg och kan säkerstalla finländska exportvägar effectom 90 percent av Finlands export går med fartyg, samt de tusentals arbetsplatser som finns ord på fartygen. Av den anledningen hoppas jag att det rai förslaget är ett missförstånd och att man i likhet med vad man gjorde förra veckan i tillet vill fortsätta stödja sjöfarten och våra kommunikationer under denna exceptionellt svåra tid. Jag vill återigen passa på att tacka samlingspartiet för det man gjorde förra veckan då man var med och tog ansvar tillsammans med hela riksdagen för dessa frågor och var med öjde bemanningstödet med 7 million euro. — Tack.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u227	Madam President! Representative Ollikainen spoke here a short time ago, and it turned out from the speech that RKP wants to increase the household allowance, just like the Finns and the Coalition Party, and this is a great thing that there is now at least one party in the government that wants to do so. These benefits have already been mentioned here. There would be many benefits, such as this fight against the shadow economy, which is also the aim of the Government Programme. For example, many pensioners who live at home and use buying services in cleaning would also receive help. Then perhaps the biggest would be this Finnish work on which the entire government program rests. This Finnish work is also the best remedy for rising mental problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u228	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! There have been good speeches here, and I can immediately compromise the colleague, Mr Koposta, that for the RKP this household allowance is something that needs to be addressed and raised. It has positive dynamic effects, and that is what we are working on. When you think about the previous debate, I myself am perhaps a little surprised at this motion by the Assembly to halve the crew support. It has dynamic negative effects on exports and imports, as my colleague, Mr Löfström, well pointed out, but perhaps this was some sort of mistake or damage. The large sums go through these alternative budgets, and what has, of course, been a little confused over the past six months is that one day there is concern about debt, and the next day more subsidies are being presented to restaurants and businesses. I understand that this corona crisis has been a special time for all of us, but given the dramatic figures already going around in the government's own amending budgets and supplementary budgets, I am surprised that the coalition in particular has still wanted to increase. But if you look at the employment measures, there was a lot of good in the alternative budget for the Coalition. I also enjoyed the fact that the Finns raised the issue of work, industry and entrepreneurship. Personally, I may not see the logic of resisting, among other things, the EU recovery package. Of course, we all hope that there is no need to have no interest rate crisis or anything else, but, in this situation, unfortunately, we have to hope that Europe will recover in such a way that the market will pull, and it is good to recognise the competition within Europe, both in terms of new investments and within groups. Yes, Finland must pay attention to it and its own efforts to make private investments in research, development and innovation, because otherwise we can become net contributors so that we are de facto supporting other regions at the expense of our own export industry. That it must be accurate. - Maybe this is it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u229	Madam President! I came to the toilet so that time would be enough to comment once and for all on the speeches made by colleagues from these government parties. I'll start with Congressman Eskelise, whom I appreciate. A strong North Karelian influencer raised a number of issues that deserve comment: First of all, Mr Eskelinen continued to repeat this same rhetoric that has been repeated during this day in relation to the employment measures of the Assembly. However, I suppose this is the case, Mr Eskelinen, that only a employment policy that raises people from poverty and makes it possible for them to get to work is the only sustainable way in which we can take care of people at all. Therefore, any measures we use to increase employment in Finland should be used. Then, at the same time, others, such as the reduction of pensioner poverty, will be taken care of, so that these people will, in turn, remain involved. This is the basis of the whole of this great programme of employment policy in the Assembly, and all these means are at your disposal. As far as the reduction of these contributions is concerned, our budget proposal is, as it were, mirrored in comparison with this government proposal, so that would mean that we would reduce the amount of EUR 30 million more than the government does. It is also based on these employment effects, which are found in the budget. The 'Finland in order' package, which we have in our option, is worth more than EUR 500 million, and it is intended to finance precisely these key projects in the various regions in terms of business, road safety and so there is, Mr Eskelinen, for each region as well. Mr Rantanen said here that, in some way — and perhaps in a somewhat unpleasant way — the coalition is always in the government, even if its programme is not in accordance with our values. Now that I was quick to think about how the Coalition Party has been in Vanhanen 2 and Sipilä's Board of Directors, where the Finns of Finland were also involved, the Sipilä Government in particular did practically make a very responsible central right-wing economic, employment and economic policy, during which 140 000 people were able to work, the Finnish economy was put in order. If we had now continued along this same path, we would not really have discussed or discussed, before the interest rate crisis, how debt borrowing is now starting to rise again, the overall rate of taxation will increase and employment measures will only be pushed forward instead of just making the necessary decisions. As far as Katainen's government is concerned, I claim that the actions of Katainen's government are much better and higher than what the government's reputation is — one example, though a very strong reduction in corporate tax, which led to companies repatriating their profits back to Finland in the first phase, and in the second phase it encouraged companies to increase their investments strongly. This was particularly evident during Sipilä's reign, so it was possible to make very large tax transfers, and I dare defend them completely. Hopefully, however, this hall will also find such responsible government options in the future. To Mrs Löfström, I would like to say briefly and quickly that the alternative to the Convention includes, for example, the abolition of the charges on the fairway, which we have discussed on several occasions in this Chamber and which specifically supports the activities of the shipowners and, in that respect, supports the activities of the export industry. In other words, we have not forgotten and will not forget the situation in shipping either. The representative, Mr Strand, was here to spell out what is the attitude of the Assembly to borrowing debt and, accordingly, to investments. On that, just a few remarks to you: we have therefore not opposed the government's making a revitalising fiscal policy during this crisis. We have criticised you for having no plan whatsoever to get out of this crisis, how this debt, i.e. EUR 30 billion, which will be taken over this year and next year, will be managed, how to get the debt ratio in order and how to move forward. As far as employment measures are concerned, Madam President, as we have already said on numerous occasions in this Chamber, you still have little smell of how to achieve your 80,000 employment objectives, and now it still seems that you are having difficulty making the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u230	Mr President! I am sure we all share the understanding that the foundation of our welfare state is simply that we have work and entrepreneurship and jobs. Indeed, this alternative budget for the coalition is the path to hope that we are creating these jobs and thus strengthening the state economy. If the Ministry of Finance calculates that each job itself strengthens it by EUR 25000, then the creation of such 20,000 new jobs — which is a really big figure, but if last season The figures of the Sipilä government are mirrored, and then 140,000 new jobs were created — to strengthen the state economy by about half a billion, so in that sense every job is important and must also be considered. Although we will probably share together the increase in the employment rate to 75, it is a challenge because the small age groups have entered the labour market and the number of pensioners is considerably higher, and according to the VM's calculations last year, even if there are no new jobs, the employment rate will increase, so in a way we need more of those new jobs. We are not satisfied with the employment rate of 75, but we must go towards that 80. These are the things that will then also be able to finance and reduce that state debt. Mr President! Our alternative budget has calculated what these different measures for next year would mean for households, families, working people. For example, by reducing the tax burden on wage and pension income evenly in all income categories by a total of EUR 800 million, and when we also make this household reduction, much more euros would be made available to households. For example, an average wage earner and entrepreneur would have an average of EUR 500 and a family with children of almost EUR 700. This difference is due, among other things, to reductions in early childhood education fees for families with children. Pensioners would benefit more in Hope's path than in the government proposal by about 300 euros a year. They are big euro figures, and when they are put into the human economy and in the purse, it also means that they matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u231	Mr President! Alternative budgets have been discussed today, and there has also been a lot of misunderstanding. Fortunately, the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, admitted that he misinterpreted the calculation of the alternative budget for the Coalition Party, because it is not only about what we would do differently next year, but also about what kind of path, the path of hope, we will create for Finland from this year forward. The interest-rate crisis is definitely the reason and justification for a revitalising policy and, as Mr Marttinen said, we have not criticised it. Instead, our concern is that now that the light is at the end of the tunnel, corona vaccine has already received a marketing authorisation in some countries and is expected to come to Finland early next year, the government has failed to take the measures that would bring work and hope to the Finns in the future. So the interest-rate crisis is not a reason not to do so; rather, it is a reason to do more. The structural problems of the Finnish economy have not disappeared at all, and the only way Finland and the Finns will survive in the future is that it is always worthwhile to work. This means that labour market reforms, structural reforms, but also that it is always worthwhile to take up work, and that is why the coalition wants to reduce the tax burden on labour. ‘Column’Implementary Path’ to the goal of Finland’s growth, competitiveness and success. The party promises to create more than 120,000 jobs, invest in education and innovation, increase international recruitment and take care of the climate and the environment. The programme has familiar co-operative objectives such as increasing the household allowance, removing the pension pipeline, local agreement, abolishing the car tax, and staggering and extending earnings-related unemployment security to all employees.” This was not my speech, but an extract from the editorial of the Helsingin Sanomat, and quite rightly they have referred to our alternative budget. ‘For the composition of the European Community of “Finland is a strong constitutional state society. The maintenance of the rule of law requires constant debate, vigilance and defence’ and we also require the government to do so. Our alternative, according to HS's editor, is that when the assembly looks out the window, we see the world in such a way that there are opportunities, no threats, and I fully agree with that. However, if we are to see the opportunities, we need to act on employment, and we need to do them now. The Coalition Party has given us an alternative — the government, please make use of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u232	Mr President! It is possible to summarise the rationale of the alternative budget of the Assembly: more jobs and more work in hand. Our alternative budget is the path of Hope out of the economic crisis and the government's misery policy. The Coalition Party cannot accept that, in the midst of the economic crisis, the Marin Government will allow the taxation of a hardworking Finnish worker and man to tighten. According to a recent calculation by the Central Association of Taxpayers, the tax burden on the work of the middle-income Finnish family will increase by more than 250 euros next year. How can the government allow in this economic situation, in which the Finnish people's survival and purchasing power should be strengthened, to be less paid next year? Finns have earned their net wages. In the alternative, we allow people themselves to decide more about the fruits of their own work, that is to say, their own money and the use of it — we would thus strengthen purchasing power. According to the proposal of the Coalition Party, an average of EUR 1000 per year would remain in the hands of the two employees’ household more than on the government’s net salary cut line. That's a lot of money. We in the assembly understand that the work should be worthwhile. What we want more in society, that is, work, must be taxed less, not more, as the government does. Mr President! The Group's responsible alternative is based on the fact that work is the best social security. Where the government reduces the number of jobs in the private sector and rewards living, we want to create conditions for the creation of new jobs and reward hard work. According to expert estimates, our alternative budget would create up to 120,000 new jobs for Finns. Companies need space to employ and people need incentives to work right now. The external parliamentary decision-making that has been outsourced to the labour market by the social partners' cartel will only work, as we have seen. In order to reform the labour market, the government and Parliament must exercise the democratic power that is theirs. With regard to the huge employment package for the Coalition Party, I would like to highlight in particular the possibility of local reconciliation in all workplaces. This would increase the opportunities for SMEs to recruit more workers. Instead of expansing the public sector, the private sector needs to be expanded. In the economic crisis, tax reductions would increase economic activity. The alternative to the Coalition Party therefore means more well-being through the dynamic effects of the economy. Mr President! It's a job that lifts people out of poverty. It's a job that creates well-being. When there are incentives for hard work and employment, everyone wins.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u233	Ärade talman, Mr President! När man lyssnar på den Jättetjocka och långa list med åtgärder som samlingspartiet presenterar är det kanske litet svårt att påminna sig om att de ju har suttit i regeringen valdigt, valdigt länge, i åratal, så valddigt mycket tycks ha blivit ogjort.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u234	Irade fru talman! Ledamot Marttinen tog raus tidigare upp att samlingspartiet vill ta bort farledsavgifterna, och det raus är ju en sak som vi har diskuterat flera gånger tidigare ai i plenisalen, och det var inte den raus saken jag kritiserade Heller. Utan det jag kritiserade var att man vill skära ner bemanningstödet med 40 million euro, för det skulle betyda enorma utflagggningar för fartyg som har finsk flagg i dag. Inte ett enda ro-pax- eller ro-ro-fartyg, alltså våra passagerarfortor, skulle då ha råd att ha finsk flagg i aktern. Inget av de fina fartyg som byggs på bland you give Raumovervet skulle då få finsk flagga, inte ens Wasalines nybygge skulle ha råd att sutta finsk flagga om man skulle genomföra det rai förslaget att skära 40 million euro från bemanningstödet. Och inget fartyg i Sverigetrafiken skulle då ha finsk flagga, utan under skulle få Svensk flagg i stället och det skulle äventyra Finlands försörjningsberedskap. Just därför, arade talman, hoppas jag att man kanske har missförstått vad det rausstödet faktiskt går ut på. För det ox skulle de facto äventyra 5000 arbetsplatser, det skulle rett snabbt stätt att bli av med 5000 arbetsplatser. Vi har 7000 sjöarbetsplatser i Finland och 5000 blir man på det raus sättet ganska fort av med. Men så ox är det ju när man gör skuggbudgetar. Jag vet det också, under förra mandatperioden, man ska få dem att balansera och det inte är latt och det är komplexa helheter som man ska spapa. Avslutningsvis hoppas jag att man kan titta på det rai förslaget igen, för förra veckan godkande ju riksdage enhälligt ett förslag om att höja bemanningstödet med 7 million euro. Communicationsutskottet var enhälligt och fattade det betankandet, och samlingspartiet var med och höjde bemanningstödet med 7 million euro förra veckan. Så det skulle vara ologiskt att sedan nu nnä vecka skära det med 40 millioner.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u235	The sixth item in the order of business is the alternative budget of the Group of the Christian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u236	Madam President! Indeed, this debate has already taken place well, but I would like to raise a few more points which I was unable to clarify during that debate. The question was raised here of climate policy for Christian Democrats, and we have here a proposal to restore the additional capital allocated to the Climate Fund and put an end to this Vaken Climate Fund, which is intended to save EUR 300 million. I justify this by the fact that last year the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy set up a liquidator to draw up a report on the roles of state investment and development companies, and the liquidator recommended that Vake Oy be associated with the Finnish Industrial Investment and that the capital given to Vake be returned to the State. Yes, this Vake activity shows that a state investment company is the wrong way to create new innovations and develop business, and it is not the task of the state to act as a risk investor but to create a stable operating environment for the private sector. We believe that climate action can be supported by investing more money in R & D. If we still look at these climate measures in our group's option, for example, this reduction in the tax on fruit and vegetables would favour the consumption of vegetarian food and would also be climate-friendly. Then another thing: The question was this question of Sitra's capital income, which in this option would bring EUR 100 million as such a one-off bonus. The Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, interpreted this as some form of permanent funding, but this is precisely not the case, but it is of course a one-off measure which we would only use for a one-off purpose next year, i.e. we would use the funds generated to finance business-led development projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u237	Mr President! I do not want to prolong this debate, but just a few brief comments on this as far as the Vake and the Climate Fund are concerned. It is true that it now has a point of proof, but I personally hope and believe that it may be good to leverage precisely new technologies and energy and environmental technologies into the type of system-level solutions that do not automatically arise on the market. It is not always enough to create a generally stable framework, because many times the market itself opposes innovation, because they live in the business they have and not in what may be five or ten years' time. In other words, we need a lever, but it must be focused, and it must also bring private RD investments alongside it, so that in practice we support something that would otherwise not get started. This is the big question with regard to the whole of this EU recovery package, whether we can create enough conditions for private investment in R & D as well. Then, just to mention from Sitra, Sitra itself decided to capitalise universities exactly one year ago, whether it was EUR 100 million. That's a pretty good slice of that, too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u238	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 16/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Chairman of the committee, Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u239	Madam President! The proposal implements nationally the so-called Telecommunications Directive and the amendments to the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. However, the proposal also includes important national legislative changes relating to the functioning of communications, security and, inter alia, consumer protection. In its report, the Committee on Transport and Communications considers the proposal to be well prepared and the proposals made in the proposal to be well-founded. The government's proposal is very broad. In its report, the committee has dealt, among other things, with the provisions on cybersecurity and critical network components, the provision on the prevention of access to information, the small number of local online services, accessibility, the increase in the universal service speed of internet access services, the national subscriber numbers and the maximum duration of fixed-term communications service contracts, and the functionality and development of communications links in sparsely populated areas. The committee has made the clarifications and other necessary amendments required by the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In addition, in its report, the committee has introduced a number of changes to clarify the proposal, correct errors and harmonise regulation. Among other things, the committee has adjusted the regulation to include emergency centres in Åland, extended the transitional period for the pricing of national subscriber numbers by about a year, and clarified the regulation allowing consumers to check the expiry date of their fixed-term mobile telephone subscription contract, for example by SMS or other similar ease. Madam President! National security and communication network equipment: Today's society is dependent on the operation of information systems and communications networks with almost all its key and vital functions, and society's dependence on the cyber environment is likely to deepen in the coming years, including through the deployment of 5G networks. 5G technology has a lot of potential, but one of the risks associated with its use has been identified as the implementation of intelligence and possible hostile influence, including through equipment suppliers. Legislation must also enable the necessary measures to prevent and recover from problems. The proposal implements a measure of a common set of instruments for the security of the 5G networks in the European Union concerning the protection of critical network components. According to the proposal, a communication network device shall not be used in critical parts of the communication network where there are strong grounds for suspecting that the use of that device would endanger national security or defence. The Agency may, under certain conditions, order the removal of such equipment and a new Network Security Advisory Board will be set up to deal with security issues. The committee considers that the reliability and security of communications networks and services are an absolute prerequisite for the vital functions of society and national security. The Committee considers it essential that communication network equipment which endangers national security be addressed even before the risk of national security has caused damage to society and its vital functions. The committee has clarified the proposed regulation in accordance with the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. The committee has clarified both the definition of critical parts of the communication network and the situations in which the misuse of the communication network equipment jeopardises national security and defence, that its use is prohibited and that it can be ordered to be removed. In its report, the Committee considers it important that measures taken by other Member States of the European Union be followed up in the implementation of a common set of instruments and ensure that the rules and policies adopted by Finland are sufficiently uniform, comprehensive and effective to achieve common objectives. Madam President! The report contains two objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u240	Madam President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for the presentation. Before I briefly raise the objection to the vote, I would like to say that the work of the committee in the main has certainly gone very well together, and we have agreed on a very large number of things, and that is also reflected in the fact that, in practice, the clause applies to a very specific issue, which, having said this, is very important. This is a so-called small-scale online service which we held in committee for quite a long time. So what is at issue here is that these network licences are currently granted under the authority of the Government and now this government proposal and now the report is based on the assumption that in future a mobile communications network operating in these small limited areas, where public telecommunications activities are carried out, this network licence would not be required but could then be carried out solely on the basis of a radio licence issued by the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency. I am sure that there are two points of view here which should be raised in this debate. The second is this development of competition and of these new forms of business, which is a very relevant aspect, and I do not deny it at all. On the other hand, it must also be said that Finns currently have the fastest telecommunications connections in the world compared to their costs, and this is also a factor, which is why we will see how this spectrum policy has been developed in Finland. Therefore, at least I myself may have a slightly different perspective on this issue, since in practice the safety authorities have expressed deep concern that this article and its provisions allow this small limited area to cover, for example, an entire part of the city, and it has also been pointed out that there may be, for example, ports or other such perhaps strategic areas. In this respect, there may also be shortcomings in this regulation. This has been highlighted at the heart of the Ministry of Defence and Home Affairs and the Protection Police that they have a deep concern about this, which will have the effect of this amendment on national security. That is why we propose in this clause that this amendment should not be made, but that this Government procedure should be maintained for these online licences.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u241	Irade fru talman! Det är är ett enormt och viktigt lagförslag i ett complicerat område där den technicalka utvecklingen går i rasande takt. Precis som ordförande Suna Kymäläinen presenterade så är det ox området otroligt Brett. Här finns också små, små viktiga detaljer. En sådan viktig detalj är den som uppdaterar bestammelserna om varningsmeddelanden, och därmed förbättrar medborgarnas tillgång till information i nödsituationer. Enligt det ursprungliga lagförslaget skulle mobiloperatörer inte behöva lämna ut information om nödsamtal till Alarmcentralen på Åland Vilket kunde ha fått valdigt farliga consekenser. Åland hör nämligen inte till Nödcentralsverket utan Landskapsalarmcentralen är placerad under polisen på Åland. Att Landskapsalarmcentralen inte nämndes i lagförslaget var helt klart ett misstag och inte ont menat. Men det var viktigt att felet upptäcktes i tid så att det kuntas till, Vilket nu har gjorts i utskottsbehandlingen, och stort tag till hela utskottet för det. Irade the Talman! Efter att missen upptacktes var jag i contact med bland you give communicationsutskottets ordförande Suna Kymäläinen och utskottsråden. Communicationsutskottet såg snabbt till att Ålands landskapsregering hördes i ärendet, viktigt. I utskottet har man sedan ersatt ordet Nödcentralsverket med ordet nödcentralen. Det ox kan verka som en liten sak, men om felet skulle gått obemärkt förbi skulle mobiloperatören i värsta fall municipalities sluta ge ut information till Alarmcentralen på Åland. Det skulle variety otroligt illa, och i kärsta fall municipalities skapa livsfarliga situationer. Vi skulle säkerligen fått den behövliga ändringen till stånd snabbt i riksdagen igen, men det är redan tillräckligt lång tid för att missen skulle ha kunnat fått en farlig consekvens i värsta fall. Därför är det oerhört viktigt att den oxilla, lilla detaljen och lilla felet upptacktes och att vi fick det ragttat ar i tid. Tack till hela communicationutskottet för den viktiga saken och beredskapen att snabbt agera i det ärendet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u242	Madam President! Thank you to Mr Kymäläinen, Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, for presenting the report of the committee. It is a very wide-ranging piece of legislation and it deals very extensively with the field of communication. As far as I am concerned, there are a number of very important issues which have been raised at this level of law and which have also been well addressed in the report. One is cybersecurity, and I believe that it will be all the more important in the future, that we also have clear articles of the law and that more attention will be paid to cyber security. It has also come up in recent years when there has been a constant need to increase the budget for cyber security. The second is a new issue, which is actually related to this same issue, the Advisory Board on Network Security. Now it is being set up, and it is a new player. I believe that in the near future and in the future it will also play a very important role in these matters. The fact that the maximum duration of a fixed-term communication service contract will not exceed 12 months is also important in this legislative package. It has become a lot of feedback from the public that it should be counted into a year, and it has now been said that, when it is coming to an end, operators should send information about this termination through a text message or equivalent. It is also a good service for customers and citizens. What is also important is that, according to this law, the increase in the speed of universal service is now taking place. That is not a big thing, but how much it has been raised has been the subject of debate, and I think it is important that this is the way forward. There is also a very important issue here, particularly the communication links between sparsely populated and island regions, that they will continue to work. Of course, even more attention will be paid to this next issue, but it has already been taken into account here. That's a good thing. Then, in fact, to what the objection of the Assembly is. It has drawn attention to an important issue, admittedly, specifically to this ‘low local network service’, which should be made available at what point. It was also very much discussed in committee and the views of the various ministries were obtained. It is quite true that the various ministries are concerned about how it will ensure this in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u243	Madam President! In fact, in order not to fail to thank you, I would like to begin by thanking the committee for this extensive legislative package, and, as Mr Marttinen has said here, this has been done in good cooperation, even though two objections to the various nuances have been raised. In fact, I would like to comment on this objection to the Assembly, or perhaps more on the government's position, on what we are thinking about and what is at stake here: it is important to remember that the provision of a local online service in a restricted area still requires a radio licence, even if the network licence is no longer required. The obligations relating to the company’s security and operational security are not linked to the person granting the required authorisation. According to its wording, this provision constitutes a general telecommunications activity and therefore operators carrying out the activities referred to in that provision are, from the point of view of the law on electronic communications services, clearly telecommunications undertakings. Consequently, these operators are subject to all the obligations and rights of the telecommunications undertaking laid down by law. In addition, the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency does not grant a radio licence without any legal judgement or information about the applicant for a radio licence and its activities. Under the law, the Agency may impose coercive measures such as a periodic penalty payment and the threat of commissioning, and ultimately, if necessary, prohibit a telecommunications undertaking from engaging in telecommunications activities if, despite the penalties imposed, a telecommunications undertaking seriously and materially infringes or fails to comply with the law. However, the committee notes in its report that, in order to ensure safety considerations in the future, it is also important to pay attention to the conditions for authorisation to be attached to the radio licence and to assess whether they can be used to prevent possible security threats. As a committee, we have therefore stressed in our report that the Government should also take the decision to grant a radio licence. Regarding the objection of the Finns: They were concerned about restricting freedom of expression and wanted to remove all references to basic incitement against the people. However, as a committee, we felt that it was important for electronic communications services, where, unfortunately, such criminal activities are now more and more easily accessible, to be dealt with by law if necessary. For example, as regards the prevention of access to information, the proposal provides that a blocking order may only be issued in situations where:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u244	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 17/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u245	Madam President! The Committee on Transport and Communications will present for adoption a law on support for broadband construction. According to the budgetary plan, EUR 5 million will be allocated to the Government's proposal for 2021. With the aid presented, the aim is to attract around 10,000 new households and leisure homes to access high-speed broadband. The committee welcomes and supports the objectives of the proposal. The report deals with technology neutrality, the speeds laid down, support for leisure homes and municipal contributions. In addition, the Committee draws attention to the study of broadband investment and the development of communication links and the monitoring of objectives. In line with the principle of technological neutrality, networks implemented with different technologies can be used to meet the needs of different regions, both on the fixed network and on the mobile network. The committee is concerned about the speeds set and believes that it is necessary to ensure that the speeds laid down in the regulation enable telework and many information society services. There should be no major variations between the speeds of incoming and outgoing traffic. The report considers it necessary for the Government to carefully assess and monitor the adequacy of speeds and, if necessary, take measures to revise speeds in the regulation. The committee welcomes the extension of support to leisure accommodation. Mr President! The report also raises serious concerns about municipal contributions. The Committee stresses that if the contribution of the municipality is required in accordance with the draft regulation, it is important that the criteria for aid rates are defined in such a way as to ensure the economic success of the project across the country. Attention will also be paid to the impact of the economic situation caused by the covid-19 pandemic on the ability of municipalities to pay, and the committee notes that the categories of municipalities' contributions should be carefully considered. The committee considers it necessary that, when establishing the categories of municipalities' contributions, the municipalities' class should be carefully considered and the criteria interpreted in the interests of the municipalities and customers. In this way, the report believes that the aim should be to ensure that there are not many municipalities in the highest class, but that most of them belong to the lowest category. The committee stresses that the regulation needs to be assessed and monitored and amended if necessary, and submits a statement to Parliament for approval: ‘The Council of State requires that the Council of State monitor the achievement of the objectives of the law and, in particular,that the contributions of the municipalities are not disproportionate and,if necessary,that measures be taken to amend the law and regulation. “ This is the statement the committee makes in its report. Madam President! With regard to the study of broadband investment and the development of communication links, the Committee notes that Finland's sustainable growth programme is currently under preparation, with the overall situation of promoting high-speed broadband. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has pointed out to the committee that Finland intends to promote the financing of the development of advanced communication links also from the EU recovery package. The committee considers it necessary for the Government to closely monitor the implementation of the objectives of the law and regulations as a whole and, if necessary, to take swift action to remedy the problems. There was an objection to the report. Madam President! Proposal for a decision of the Committee on Transport and Communications: ‘Inadmissibility by the Parliament of a legislative proposal contained inthe proposal for a Parliament shall adopt one statement.’
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u246	Mr President! Chairman of the Committee I think that Mr Kymäläinen was quite well in the course of those discussions, and I think that the committee's opinion has paid a great deal of attention to these shortcomings, or to questions, mainly regarding this future broadband project, which I am sure will come up with at the construction stage. Of course, it is important that the broadband building programme launched in 2010 now continues with an investment of EUR 5 million, and of course it is part of the implementation of the Government programme to build a vibrant Finland. In particular, the aid scheme will be aimed at areas which will not be commercialised before 2025, with the aim of bringing around 10,000 customers into the broadband sector. What is important is that eligibility has been extended, for example in the case of leisure homes, and unnecessary bureaucracy has also been dismantled in the case of aid. The need for good communication connections has been demonstrated by the corona period, when many employees have moved to remote work and we often manage things from home or from a leisure home. There has been a debate around the technical neutrality of the proposal. I myself used to be a strong advocate of fibre building alone, but the tremendous pace of technological development in this particular sector is in favour of taking forward implementation in this context with different technologies, so that we can better meet the needs of different regions in a fixed network and mobile network. Technology is evolving, and 5G, different base station solutions and household receiver systems also provide a real and often cheaper mobile broadband option. I myself have been jumping up to a thousand megabits of antenna jars in my hands, and it only tells me how fast we move forward in this world. The draft law has also drawn attention to the fact that traffic asymmetries leave the ranges of telecommunications for incoming and outgoing traffic, which is quite relevant from the point of view of the user. It is also important that we promote and speed up the construction of different technologies when the government intends to include the development of communication links as part of the EU recovery package. It is also important, before further funding and the recovery package, to get an overall picture of the broadband project and the situation picture of its promotion. Perhaps the biggest question mark the chairman of the committee raised very well is, in my view, this aspect of municipal funding, which the committee has also drawn attention to. The 33% contribution is about 80% of municipalities, and when the situation in local government finances and the dimness of local government finances are known in the coming years, it is difficult to predict now how the municipalities will get excited about this. That is why it is important now to monitor the implementation of the law and the use of funding as the project moves forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u247	Irade fru talman, Madam President! This is a very good and wonderful thing that this law is now being discussed in the Chamber and that the Committee on Transport and Communications has dealt with this. This will also support the electronic communications services we were talking about, and then, of course, telework, which now has a digital leap. We usually talk a lot about you, but these are digital roads, and we are in a rather difficult situation if we do not have digital connections in the future. They have to be perfect. I would like to raise this point with Mrs Torniainen on the previous point, namely that it concerns sparsely populated rural areas and the archipelago, that these things are in order there as well. However, there are quite a few 10,000 households, but we know that the EU Recovery Fund, for example, could possibly further increase and expand this, and I think that is a great thing. Of course, the municipal economy is concerned about what Mr Eskelinen raised in this previous speech. As such, this is also an important investment for the citizens, for the citizens of the municipality, so I see that it is also important for the municipalities to prioritise this. I also think it is a good thing that the committee raises this statement, because this is an important issue for the future and also for the future, that we can also do telework from the point of view of leisure homes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u248	Madam President! The Finns of Peru consider this new proposal for support for broadband construction, which is in practice a continuation of the old one, necessary and appropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u251	Madam President! This government proposal, this law, is a continuum for the previous broadband laws, which have been identified as necessary and which have also been sought to be further developed. At the latest in this difficult corona period, teleworking has shown that fast, functional and stable communications and telephone connections are needed throughout Finland, and this bill is therefore very good. Of course, this broadband law is now part of the budget law, and it is intended to ensure that some 10,000 new households and leisure homes are built into broadband connections. That EUR 5 million has been earmarked for next year's budget, and I personally believe that much more euros will be needed in the future in these areas as well. All in all, this bill is all very well and worthy of support, and although this report by the Committee on Transport and Communications is quite critical when you read it, it is precisely those draft regulations that are critical, which have been mentioned at the end of this bill and which will then be Government regulations. All in all, this bill is very good and worthy of support. This is based on the fact that this will be technologically neutral in the future, i.e. both fibre and mobile broadband will continue to be needed. I personally believe that this is exactly what is needed in Finland in order for us to continue to be a pioneer in these high-speed broadband connections. As far as this criticism is concerned, particularly with regard to these draft regulations, which are there at the end of the draft law, I personally hope that, given that these draft regulations are now in the form of statements at the moment and are supposed to come back on Friday, the Government will take into account exactly what they say and say in future. I myself have already taken a position in committee, and the committee has also pointed out in its report that municipal contributions must not be excessive, especially in such an economic situation, which is what the municipalities currently have. The minimum speeds must also be sufficient,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u252	Madam President! It is good that this issue of broadband access is being discussed so often in Parliament. Although the draft law and the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism are good, it cannot be criticised, I think there is a certain realism missing. It is clear that 5G connections can never be implemented in rural broadband. The problem is, as we all know — at least those who were involved in the consultation, I am not a member of the Committee on Transport — that the 5G connection between the base stations is approximately 300 metres apart. How could a representative imagine building such an antenna network in Finland with support antennas every 300 metres?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u255	Madam President! Mr Hoskonen spoke in part, but this 5G also makes it possible for 5G to operate in those urban centres. For example, the port of Oulu is one of the examples at the moment, where 5G works and logistics is possible. But this is really good, and it is precisely this broadband here that is now possible to do with fiber but also with mobile connection. And there must be fiber that the mobile works. That is quite clear. But then, of these percentages of aid: they also vary. In my municipality of residence in Kajaani, 33 per cent must have their own share. At the moment, when I live 16 kilometres from downtown, there is a 4G connection, it works relatively well mobilely. When I've measured it in the city, there's a maximum speed of 25 megabit sets that I've got on the mobile. Then there are these comments from the sparsely populated countryside: There are companies and large farms. They are currently in need of fibre connections. On the mobile, those connections do not work what all-looking functions there are at the moment. So this is where the challenges lie with the construction of this 5 million. Of course, the matter is moving forward, and I very much hope that the recovery instrument, too, will then be able to make use of EU money and thus develop this mobile and broadband connection in general. Then there is this regulation and the municipal contributions: It is a good idea for the committee to be vigilant, and I think that the committee has very well put on this monitoring responsibility to see how this situation is progressing overall. With this decree issued by the Ministry, the only way for Parliament to get to it is if it follows it, and if you start to get unduly expensive for the municipalities, then you have to react immediately. But I believe that in some regions, especially urban areas, 5G really has that future and is able to further develop a lot of services and electronic communications, and that is how we welcome this money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u256	Madam President! All in all, this proposal is welcome and timely, especially at a time when interest in telework and also in leisure time is increasing, of course, during this corona epidemic, but I believe that this will leave a somewhat more permanent phenomenon after this epidemic. With this support, the aim is to attract 10,000 new households, which is a good objective, and it is great that the aim is to make broadband construction possible with this support in areas where there is no commercial provision for high-speed broadband. However, as has already been the subject of a great deal of debate here, the problem is that it is precisely those municipalities where there is no market-based broadband construction that are burdened by contributions, and there is a concern that projects will not be created in very sparsely populated areas in this way. That is why it is, of course, a good thing that the committee has also made this effort in this regard, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that municipal contributions are also becoming the subject of a vote by the Finns themselves. The Christian Democrats are not represented in the Committee on Transport and Communications, but I do think it is justified by this motion by the Finns of Peru, which reduces the contribution of municipalities to the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u257	Madam President! This corona crisis has already demonstrated and highlighted the need to respond to security threats such as these by improving, for example, video and online negotiation infrastructure. Many teleconferences on Teams, Skype, no matter what the application is, have usually happened in so many respects that the video connection had to be closed so that the sound could even be heard. After all, we have been talking about this for decades, and for this, for example, the Broadband for All project has been set up and the awareness of the future that these video links exist today, but they will continue to exist in the future. This was mentioned in previous speeches, among other things, in the field of social services. It must be remembered that broadband construction, which is based on optical fibre connections, provides service platforms for different services of the future, and includes social and health care services. Yes, in the future, I would like to receive social and health care services from there at the beginning of Kuhmon Hukkajärvi. Unavoidably, the doctor will not be able to reach the hand-knob there, or you will not be able to take blood tests, but those basic services will come with a functional infrastructure, and this government proposal will contribute to this. The committee's report is a very good one, and I would also like to point out that the municipalities are in a rather challenging economic situation, and the government must put more money into this basic infrastructure construction, so that these are part of the basic infrastructure that the state should do. I would also like to point out here that — and I do not know how the debate has been held in committee — rural programme funds have made very comprehensive broadband construction and village networks by village network cooperatives. I would like to remind you that many people in rural areas have already moved on and built up the village networks and broadband construction from the bottom up, on condition that it improves the quality of life in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u258	Madam President! It is important to remember now that this is a positive proposal, although the committee's report is critical. However, this is important in this period of time to increase fast broadband connections throughout Finland and also to reduce red tape with this new model. Of course, it must be borne in mind that EUR 5 million is a limited amount. We in the government admit that, but, as I said earlier in my speech, the Ministry of Transport and Communications has said to the committee that Finland intends to contribute to the financing of the development of advanced communication links from the EU recovery package. Here Mr Hoskonen said quite critically, and that is why I would like to say that we are not giving the wrong impression of this government proposal: As the title of this proposal already indicates, it is a question of law in support of broadband construction, which means that we are not just aiming at mobile networks, but that this fibre building is still an important part of this. This only expands and tries to be more agile and also promotes the need for significantly less money to finance mobile networks. Certainly it is that in Ilomants, which was mentioned here, certainly not next year, in 2021, which is affected by this bill, the 5G networks are still being built comprehensively and certainly not going to be built at all. This debate highlighted the financing problems associated with these earlier broadband support. I imagine that this refers, for example, to the unfortunate history of Central Finland with regard to this broadband construction, but at the same time it must also be remembered that there are such successful broadband projects, and therefore the continuation of this law now in this modified form, which also takes mobile networks into account, has its own basis. Once again, I would like to thank the committee for its very active action and good spirit in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u259	Madam President! In his own speech, Mr Hoskonen made a very valuable contribution to the benefits and stability and the need for the construction of the fibre. It is a fact that in optical fibre connections the speeds are precisely stable, they are regular and they are functional, and it is quite clear that we also need fibre in the future, but we also need mobile widebands. It's a fact. I personally believe that this law, this government's proposal, will be able to build both in the future, taking seriously the problems of the regulation which are currently in the draft regulations there, precisely the statements which now come to the Government, which will take these challenges into account. We really need both optical fibre and mobile broadband. Both are needed. I personally believe that in the future there will be fibre in the sparsely populated and sparsely populated areas, and that fibre will also be needed between base stations. This government proposal also improves the current situation in municipalities, cities and agglomerations, for example. There are often such so - called blind spots between several masts, and they do not work. I personally believe that this bill now improves the problems there are. Especially good in this proposal is the long-term desire of the centre and the aim that leisure homes also come under the support of broadband construction. That is a very good thing, and I believe that this will contribute to many projects. It is also a matter of great importance to their builders. I will return to those regulations, and what is a problem there is the contribution of the municipalities. I personally hope that there will be a reduction in the percentage or the lowest possible number of municipalities, which is now the most expensive category of contributions — the 33% of the costs involved — because the economic situation in the municipalities is at present that hardly many municipalities are able to contribute with such a large percentage to the construction. I hope that attention will also be paid to the way in which the local authorities have now defined this category of carrying capacity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u260	Mr President! The government is not a matter for operators but for Finns, and we must also acknowledge that technology is developing and that 5G is about 20 times faster than 4G. Of course, it has its own worries, but no one here has opposed broadband construction with regard to optical fibre — on the contrary, everyone recognises the superiority of broadband and optical fibre in these mobile and telecommunications matters. I'm sure the grids will continue to be built, but we need to take into account how technology develops and then make use of them. In practice, as has been said in this debate, it must apply to urban agglomerations and cities and perhaps some agglomerations. You have to have all the tools in place to achieve the goal that is sometimes set here in Finland. However, I think that this government proposal is balanced and does not rule out anything, and with those strengths the network will certainly continue to be built and has a big role to play on the fibre.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u261	Madam President! Indeed, when the 3,100 square kilometres of my municipality of residence were in due course negotiated with the local operators — even the names — Sonera and Elisa, that it would be possible, the message will be understood by our fellow, a hard-headed fellow, that neither bird nor ripen will come. No apparent interest in the construction of a high-speed wireless broadband network in a sparsely populated area. No, it was totally zero, and at that moment all we had to do was decide whether we wanted it or not. For the municipality of Ilomants — 3,100 square kilometres, 5,000 inhabitants — it cost about 10 million, it is not a secret. The municipality invested a little over 3 million in it, the customers, i.e. the fibre takers, also one third, and then, with the help of the Finnish Communications Agency, it came in less than one third. So this is how it can be done. You might want to remember that now we're living in corona time. Think of society. I wish no harm to anyone, on the contrary, let all diseases disappear, but when it is not realism. There will be these viruses, and the corona will not be the last; we all know that. There'll be new ones, and hopefully we'll be able to deal with them too. But this corona has taught us the importance of telework. Let me give you one brief example: My friend’s sister came to Ilomants with a computer. He's some kind of designer, and he had a huge file on that plane, and he had forgotten to send it to some client, some kind of order job. Then he was terrified when he got there, that for God's sake, there's no broadband here, how he sends it from here. Well, the sister had said that nothing more than logging into our inner network, and went off with that huge file to the world, it only took a few milliseconds — that is, when fast broadband is, but if you had been on the 4G network, then there was no hope. That huge design file of many, probably thousands of megos — I don't even know the size of the file — went off with one flutter. If it hadn't been for that broadband network, it would have been there. Joensuu should have driven and sent it from there. With this I want to prove that in urban areas where 5G can operate, where the antenna network is dense, the base station network is dense, ok, but in sparsely populated areas it is absolutely out of the question. No one can afford such build, but a fiber optic network is possible to build, and it lasts, as I said, for many generations, and then it allows health services, shops, businesses and banks. A good example is farms: if a farm builds a new fine barn with a dairy robot, it needs a wireless fibre connection, that the supplier who supplied its device will be able to see at a distance how the system works. You can operate almost anything with it, it's so fast, so I hope it's understood. It is good that the law came, but then, when we complete and give money, we are going to give money from the EU money to a place where it is really useful.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u262	Madam President! This is, in principle, a very positive government proposal, and indeed the report on the committee is a good one. In my own speech, I would also like to highlight the positive aspect of what Mrs Torniainen has already pointed out with credit that this support for broadband construction is now finally also in the direction of recreational housing. This will contribute to the diversity, to the duality of the future and to the fact that work can then also be done in leisure homes. It is already being done today, but this will create even greater conditions for fast communication with light fibers to be provided in a free-time residence. I would also like to draw attention to this aspect when Mrs Hoskonen, as an example of her own municipality, Mrs Ilomants, set the example that we are bordering with Kuhmo and Ilomants, and that reality today is on that border that these 4G and 5G, especially 5G, are not so unambiguous with this border, when Russia is close to it. As a result, these broadband connections will and must be built in sparsely populated areas. It has been in this 8% payment category in the past and now, with this law, it will rise to 33%. The distances are long, and I also hope that the decision makers of the city of Kuhmo will have great wisdom in finding aid for this broadband construction in the future, while more networks will be built for the sparsely populated countryside.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u263	Madam President! I would now like to point out that this proposal, this government proposal, does not seek to ensure that the whole of Finland comes once and for all under the service of fixed or mobile networks, but is therefore aimed at bringing around 10,000 new households within the scope of these broadband connections. By the time the previous Broadband for All programme was established from 2010 onwards, by the end of 2019, the aid scheme had built a total of some 25,000 kilometres of fibre-based networks and thus increased the availability of high-speed connections to nearly 100,000 households and business sites. As far as these 5G networks are concerned, there are around 60 localities in Finland at the moment and they are really concentrated, as Mr Hoskonen said, especially in larger cities, transport hubs and major tourist destinations, and this will certainly be the case for a long time. I would add that this proposal is in line with the Government Programme, in which high-speed connections are built primarily on market terms and only in the second place through public funding, and so, in the case of this aid, it is intended that this support should be directed specifically at those regions which do not have commercial high-speed broadband before 2025. This is probably a clear matter for both the government's proposal and the committee. I would also like to correct the point I made in my previous speech, in which I said that this is a budget law. That is true, and this is in connection with the 2021 budget, but certainly not only for that one year to come, but even though this law is intended to enter into force on 1 January 21, it is possible, within the framework of the scheme, to grant public aid for three years, that is, until the end of 2023, not, as I have said incorrectly, in one year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u264	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 31/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Chairman of the Tax Section, represented by Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u265	Mr President! It is therefore an energy tax, a government proposal which, in practice, the committee supports with technical changes and makes one statement. This is mainly a question of raising the energy tax very much in the same way as, unfortunately, Parliament has had to do for many years in view of history. The second point, which is of course very positive, is that the tax on electricity category II should be reduced to a minimum in the EU and then, on the other hand, the refund of the energy tax on fuels paid to energy-intensive industries should be phased out in such a way that, in 2025, this refund will no longer exist. This increase in the energy tax is in the first place EUR 2.7 and will be implemented through the energy content tax. The fiscal effect is such a EUR 105 million increase. The Committee welcomes this reduction in the category of electricity tax. It will improve the competitiveness of industry, and perhaps the significant thing is that it will be done even early in relation to the government programme, which is now being implemented. In fact, most of the debate in our section was now triggered by this abandonment of the energy tax. It became the most important conversation. We dealt with it reasonably much, and we also made this statement in relation to it. The starting point is that during the transition period this system is gradually being cut off, and the idea is to do it as painlessly as possible, so that those who suffer will have some time to move on to, say, greener production and adapt to this. As a general rule, this model goes as planned and has been built in such a way that it has also been assessed in a positive way, but also concerns were expressed about some industries, energy-intensive sectors. They considered that, at the moment, the situation on the world market is very challenging and of course the pandemic brings its own additional challenge and the economic cycle is weak, so in all cases, for example, not all units would have enough time to move on to these cleanest solutions. Some experts therefore hoped that certain adjustments would be made to this so-called ‘recovery table’ in order to allow for a more transitional period and to remove less at a time. President, do I have to come over there? I don't have much anymore, but we're gonna do it now, so I'm gonna be there. [The PresidentAnuVehvilinen : Come to the toilet, please click. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u268	Madam President! I shall briefly go over the content of the objection to the Assembly. First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the tax section and the entire tax section for the fact that we have found each other here, and I think there are quite a few questions that have been raised. I would like to draw one example, perhaps a little peculiar, which has been raised in the committee's deliberations regarding the activities of the recycling industry in Finland. With regard to Statistics Finland's classification of economic activities, this so-called class C is an industrial category, which includes companies that are eligible for the second strain of this electricity tax, but then, again, operators in the recycling industry, many of whom use secondary raw material — either processed or also used in this new production — are classified in category E. This has led to a situation in which, in practice, some of these operators in the recycling industry have been at a significantly disadvantage in terms of taxation than those companies which have used virgin raw materials in their own production. This is certainly not a desirable situation from the point of view of the circular economy, and now we have good records of it in the report, and then I hope that the country's government will take this forward as well. Madam Speaker! I am making a central point, which is why we have ended up protesting against this report, and it is precisely this refund of the energy tax on energy-intensive industries. Indeed, in these statements we also expressed some serious concern and criticism that this formula, which is based on the so-called value added and the way it has been differentiated between 20 and 24, will in fact lead to the fact that, although we have talked about this four-year transitional period, for many companies it will be eliminated for a year or two years. This has been mentioned particularly in the case of operators in the forest industry, and although it is of course in favour of this reduction in the second rate of the electricity tax to its EU minima — it supports the electrification of industry and the operating conditions of our industry — it would also be necessary, in this situation, with a rather sensitive ear, to assess how these tax changes need to be carried out in this situation. We have come to the conclusion that, while we are in favour of this abolition of the energy tax, because it is clear that this criterion has now been built in such a way that it does not actually serve this purpose as well as it should serve it, we have put forward a clause against it in which we propose a slightly lower formula for this calculation, which is likely that the effects on these companies will not come in the first year, but will then be able to use this formula differently. In this regard, we have then raised this objection. We have also made a statement on this situation in the recycling industry. On the other hand, as I said, it is also stated in the report, but we also wanted to make it more explicit, as it were. However, Madam President, as far as this increase in taxes on heating fuels is concerned, we see that tax policy should specifically seek to tax those disadvantages and, through indirect taxation, to apply for these tax targets, so that we can then reduce the tax burden on labour and hopefully also on businesses. We therefore agree with this basic solution, as well as with regard to peat taxation, and did not propose any changes to it in relation to this government proposal. But, Madam President, these are the key points. Indeed, we see that this government model for the refund of this energy tax has not been successful and there are grounds for a change.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u269	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the tax section and to Mr Marttinen for opening this up. What is good is this lowering of the second category of electricity tax to that EU minima, but, as Mr Marttinen has pointed out, this will then become a problem for the few companies in the forest industry that use fossil fuels for heating. It is now precisely the issue of the differentiation — this taxation is rising so sharply that it is now immediately affecting a few companies in the forest industry. This has also been in contact with me, and I understand that their aim would have been to be able to take it more gently at once, and then, at the end of the day, the separation would have risen more steeply. It would have given a certain amount of time for these fossil fuels to be replaced and for new investments to react. Of course, this contribution from the Tax Section is quite significant in that it now makes the government watch how this situation develops. However, since it is a major industry and Finnish production and its development and the further increase in the level of processing and also jobs, it is important that this situation is well monitored. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u270	Mr President! This report by the Committee on Finance on energy taxation is, of course, in line with the programme and justified in that sense, but there is one point that I find unacceptable. Of course, I understand that the government programme says we should go, but I think we should get back to this. This increase in the taxation of peat in the case of megawatts of EUR 2.7 has caused a huge disturbance in the market. If one of the Finnish MPs thinks that this will get extra money in the state purse, it will not get a penny, but it will be lost. At the moment, logs and fibrewood are burning in the boilers, although other provisions were agreed in the Government Programme. There is no limit to burning, and the best forests are now being cut straight into the boiler and the national economy is being severely damaged. Antti Asikainen, the current Research Director of the Natural Resources Centre, has carried out a detailed study on the added value of processing one solid cubic metre for this society. That's 242 euros. Now these 242 euros, every mott, burn into the sky as gas. This turf hatred has caused this very problem, which is a huge problem for us. At the same time, we have thrown the Finnish security of supply in the scrap heap. Think about what I read in that magazine today just before this plenary session: Europe will become a 4,000 cubic feet (4,000 cubic metres) boat of wood chips, the origin of which we do not know. Calculate how many cubes of fuel oil burn as it poundes through the North Sea from the Danish straits through here to Finland and unloads its cargo into the port. It's almost lost the energy content that's in that ship as cargo. It is for fools to implement energy policy in this way — even though I am a member of the government party, we must have the courage to say it the way it is. Tax revenue will decrease for the state, business activities will become more difficult and the entire energy production sector in Finland will be put at risk. As we have all experienced this autumn, water has been raining in Finland all along. What a miracle to get the energy trees out of that forest when there are no stocks, and the reserves of energy wood on the roads are so wet that there is no such match in the K-store that it will set the fire on it. No, it's not. It always takes peat to support it. Put some 20 percent of the total of dry peat in it, then there will be an excellent mixture of fuels, but now either coal is burned in it or light fuel oil. Heavy fuel oil is no longer known to be used in these contexts, at least in smaller power plants. I don't know if it's legal anymore. But in any case, fossils will have to be used rawly, or natural gas will have to be pushed more. Then someone will tell me if it comes from burning wood, something good. Of course, it will be good for domestic people to be burned, but now the market has been dominated by most of the application that comes from Russia. Today, according to last week’s information, a chip is being driven from Russia to the Toppia power plant in Oulu. The Russian pick-up has taken over that too. What will be done in the Finnish Parliament that day if this corona becomes very bad and the eastern border closes? The energy production of all major cities in Finland ended there. Last Friday I was driving on Route Six towards my home in Ilomants, and one of your suspicious Tuos called me when I had said here in some conversation that Russian wood chips were being driven to Finland with trucks and doubted the validity of my speech. I happened to be in Parikkala right at the intersection of the Triad crossing on Sixth Street, waiting for my turn. Why? It had a long line of pick-up trucks going to Russia to pick up a load — a huge line. Fortunately, I had my lunches with me. It was nothing to worry about while we were waiting. But I patiently waited for the trucks to reach the Triad crossing point. Is this the Finnish energy policy? Unreasonably, to do damage to the Finnish state, to lose tax revenue and to do a huge damage to the climate. According to Statistics Finland's fuel factors, burning wood produces more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere than burning peat, for example. It's about the same level as coal. With this we destroy Finnish companies, the property of hundreds of millions is thrown into a scrap heap and endangers Finnish security of supply. If anyone imagines that we can do something good by reducing peat, we will at the same time endanger agriculture, because there is a need for bedding peat. It is needed for the production of activated coal. Ilomants is about to turn the mill, and they're probably building new ones. It endangers our glass farming, that is, the production of greenhouses, because the substrates are always from peat, there is no substitute production. Similarly, broiler production stops because peat is absolutely necessary there. Mr President! We have corrected the laws, as was the law on taxis when it was found to be bad. It has been corrected at an excellent speed, and I greatly appreciate the fact that Parliament will react when there are reasons for doing so. I very much hope that now that the Finnish Parliament is making decisions, we will return to this matter of peat. With climate policy, there is nothing to do except that when we change or return this peat tax coldly to zero, we will do a huge climate action, because then all the Finnish poor wood in the pot will burn well and the energy source will be there next to the power plant and at the same time we will make all the euros stay in Finland. This situation now benefits a Dutch jobbler selling energy wood to Finns, or a Baltic yobarian selling energy to a Finnish power plant, as well as a Russian seller behind the eastern border. Of course, his business is successful when Finns are forced to buy. And guess what it's gonna do on the market when the seller knows the buyer's gonna have to buy? Well, that certainly doesn't lower the price. This is our energy policy, and I very much hope, Mr President, that next winter will not be a cold winter. If it's a freezer, we're really, really in big trouble. As regards peat extraction, the peat — the peat or peat needed for agriculture or activated hydrocarbons or greenhouse peat — cannot be raised so that only certain fractions are taken from it. The swamp gives what it gives, and there must be a ring in the different lifting stages everywhere in Finland. Now this too is being put at risk because the entrepreneurs are quitting. No one keeps the equipment up at 10 percent power, let alone environmental permits. They cost a lot of money, even if nothing is allowed to be done. I hope that the Finnish Parliament will take this seriously. Because the situation is serious. No representative has yet spoken out loud in this Chamber, apart from the undersigned, about ensuring security of supply. It is directly in the law, and it would now be reasonable for the Finnish Parliament to comply with its own laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u271	Mr President! This package on energy taxation is a very strong one, and here we have the chairman of the tax section presenting it in a variety of ways. Of course, it should now be pointed out that the proposal also contains good elements, although, like Mr Hoskonen, the Christian Democrats, among others, are paying attention to this fast-tracking of peat and the problems that come with it. But this reduction in the tax on electricity is certainly something on which there is absolute agreement in this House that this is a good thing. Of course, this system of refunding energy taxes, and in particular what this method may possibly cause for energy-intensive industries, and whether there may be problems, has been the most debate in the committee. It is a good thing that the committee has made it a point that it is going to be followed up. Nevertheless, there are also some of the bad points in this proposal, and the Christian Democrats chose to leave their own objection on the basis of our alternative budget. So from the bottom of the alternative budget, when we have also drawn attention to the taxation and tightening of heating fuels, we also raise this issue in our own protest. In other words, this increase of EUR 105 million — the Christian Democrats would like this tax tightening on heating fuels and machinery to be lifted. In particular, when I think of the sparsely populated area, the tightening of the taxation of heating fuels will weaken the livelihoods of people living in rural areas, and one can say that living there is already expensive and that the tightening of energy taxation will definitely increase it. On the other hand, housing prices have fallen so far that wealth in Finland does feel that if, for example, parents have built their own home in the capital region in the 1960s, then wealth values will remain, but from equivalent rural dwellings built further away in eastern and northern Finland, they must say that their values have completely collapsed, and one might think that the heirs will rather be marred by these old detached houses, which no one cares about anymore. Of course, it must be hoped that with the interest rate it would be noticed that in Finland this diversity would indeed be the future, and these old dwellings in rural areas would then be able to get their buyers. But it is of the utmost importance now to ensure social justice and to ensure that these costs of living do not increase further. Well, as part of this increase in the taxation of heating fuels, the taxation of peat will increase, as will the representative here. Mr Hoskonen pointed out that EUR 2.7 per megawatt hour. This rapid shutdown of peat use, just as we heard, will in practice lead to more coal and oil being used in heat production in the future. It is difficult to see what is climate-friendly here, because wood burning will also increase in energy production, which is certainly also a bad thing for the environment and security of supply and also for Finnish industry, that we may then be incinerating timber. It has also recently been reported that energy plants are now going to have to prepare faster than anticipated for this cessation of peat combustion, because the dismantling of peat production has taken place very quickly, and just as Mr Hoskonen said, at the moment Russian wood chips are being shipped to Finland and oil and coal is burning in pots, so you can't see the lukewarmness of reason in this job. There is also no guarantee that domestic energy wood will be sufficient, and the replacement of domestic peat by these foreign and, in particular, part of the fossils has no sustainable development in any way. So the second contribution of the Christian Democrats, the proposal for a statement, is that we expect the government to withdraw these measures, which will drive domestic peat production down faster than the emissions trading mechanism, because the emissions trading mechanism would in any case have ensured that this entry in the Government Programme has been carried out. Bringing the floor price mechanism and this tax increase to this end are pointless measures, and in this respect I hope that Mrs Hoskonen will courageously raise this issue and try to bring about a change within the government. My third point is this: I think we have already heard Mr Marttinen say about the competitiveness and employment of energy-intensive industries. This must be taken care of, and in this situation of interest rate increases in the cost of the export industry are in no way sensible. The energy tax reform, in particular with regard to the refund system, should be done in such a way as to allow for a transition to these cleaner solutions, but in such a way as to maintain competitiveness. We are talking about a transitional period of five years, and it should treat these different industries equally, and here we really had concerns from the industry, and this issue was raised in the expert consultation. Of course, it is a good thing that it was recorded here that it is going to be followed up, but it often happens that, as it follows, these damage is going to happen, and we know that, for example, UPM is now wondering where the next production plant is going, whether it will come to Finland or whether it will go somewhere in Central Europe. Yes, we must be able to send a political signal from this Chamber that it is worth investing in Finland in the future and that we should keep our jobs and keep them up. Mr President! That is why the Christian Democrats leave this in their own protest, because we cannot fully understand these government measures in relation to energy taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u272	Mr President! This is where Mr Essayah and Mr Hoskonen have made very good and thorough speeches. Indeed, I too am concerned about this rapid shutdown of peat production, because it will lead to the increased use of foreign fossil fuels and the diversion of roundwood into combustion, and then one can ask whether this is even acceptable and reasonable from the point of view of the principle of sustainable use of natural resources. At the same time, the fact that the government will significantly increase the taxation of heating fuels next year means that the price of living, especially in rural areas, will increase. The inhabitants of sparsely populated areas will have to pay more for their housing as a result of this tightening of energy taxation, and here, too, the government's own aims to ensure social justice are, in my view, incompatible with this proposal. In this protest on behalf of Mr Essayah, the Christian Democrats have a very good stance on which I hope a great deal of support when they come to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u273	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen has been thinking about energy policy here, and my own view has been in the same direction as Mr Hoskonen for years. Energy policy and our forestry industry actually go hand in hand, and very often we contrast peat with coal, and I do not think this should be done because coal is imported to Finland by ship and it does not work very much in Finland, but peat employs people. It is quite different whether coal or peat are burned. Such a misunderstanding is due to be corrected that neither a decision nor a law has been made by Parliament to stop burning coal. It clearly states that security of supply and security of supply are prerequisites for coal. Now that Parliament has given a strong signal to peat producers and entrepreneurs from all over the world that the peat is starting to run out and its use is stopped, the day these things started, it was the first message to these entrepreneurs that it is not worth investing in the sector, but now it has happened that these machines, which are used in peat bogs, are not necessarily easily suitable elsewhere. This is a typical example of how political talk harms a particular sector, and this time the domestic energy industry and the forest industry, as it were, is like rock-footing, peat production, because when peat disappears, as has been said here, wood must be burned. It is imported from abroad, it employs there, not here, and emissions are not necessarily reduced. It depends very much on the chain of implementation of the market. One such regional point of view, which should be taken into account, is that when talking about peat and incineration being replaced, so it succeeds in some localities well and in some localities poorly, and typically those areas where it succeeds a little less well, are smaller localities, where the socio-economic situation of people in general is weaker. Therefore, this decision, the dismantling of peat, will be directed towards weaker and perhaps less well-off areas in Finland, and will inevitably increase the cost of living again, and perhaps the worst knock-on effect will come precisely because it affects the forest industry. There the price of wood is changing, and there is burning, which makes no sense if you think of the value of the tree and so on. In my opinion, Mr Hoskonen is right, and energy policy should not be done with sudden changes, because I myself have understood that there should be investment protection in Finland. When an industry invests in expensive machines and builds plans for the future, it should be given a very long period of time, especially as regards energy policy, as if it were controlled to drive production down. Unfortunately, this is the end of the flood when we are apparently no longer able to stop, for example, the peat tax. Mr Hoskonen must be there to share the wisdom of the government parties that they are being rejected, but now the damage is as if it has already happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u274	Mr President! At this stage, I am no longer going to go into detail here about this energy tax proposal. It has already been done here, and I have been involved in it myself. I would like to make this speech in order to emphasise that this committee's proposal, which will become a parliamentary statement, is not just any statement, but should be taken seriously. Of course, it is very important that the electricity tax on industry was reduced to the EU minima and, at the same time, many other sectors were able to achieve the same, but then it is also very important that this transitional period be here and that this excise duty should continue to be paid to energy-intensive industrial companies over a period of five years. As a big line, this is right, but it may be that there are problems with this separation for some companies or factories, even though it works in many respects. There are companies that are already losing their full return possibilities within 1-2 years, and this needs to be monitored. Of course, the industry concerned, mainly the forest industry, will follow this up and draw the attention of the decision-makers. I hope that this statement will not go where it usually goes over time — because it is a graveyard of pronunciations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u275	Mr President! I also asked for the floor because just now, as the five minutes went by so quickly, I did not see, as President of the section, that the section was grateful for its very good cooperation. If you listen to this debate about the increase in energy tax in this Chamber, I would say that the atmosphere is much more cooperative and serene than it has been on many other occasions. It's not a rip-off conversation. It is also something that appreciates others and others' work, and it shows that, although there might be nuances and some things are presented, there are protests — as the opposition always does, of course, and that is exactly what I think it should be — but I think it was very important, for example, that we also found each other and understood each other in certain priorities, and that government parties, for example, reached agreement on this point, where there are a lot of sensitivity and many angles: there are these emission reduction targets elsewhere, but on the other hand, it was important to secure work here and now, to safeguard jobs, to safeguard the operating conditions of industry. These were first reconciled at government level in the form of this proposal, and now later in Parliament we managed to achieve this momentum among the government parties. Yes, it required a debate and it required a negotiation, but the outcome is excellent. Similarly, I would like to thank the opposition, for example, for having had a rather moderate line there. I think it was important that Marttine, for example, mentioned our common concern here, that, of course, the future issues that need to be clarified are, for example, how we can also get the circular economy into this more favourable category of electricity taxes. We wrote about the need to follow and to find out how this would be possible. President! Personally, of course, I will never ignore in these proposals the fact that these will always have a certain impact on the price of living, as has been mentioned here, and that is why, for example, the committee also recognised the need for monitoring in this regard. We need to follow this. And then we wanted to bring back the text on what I think is important, the many times I have communicated as a politician over the years: it also says here that the government is also very much in favour of moving households to this sustainable form of heating, i.e. if these oil-heated ones are then switched to these emission-free ways, then they can receive aid, and households can receive EUR 2500 to EUR 400.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u276	Mr President! I have to say a few more words about peat, although this was not the plan. According to a report just published, citizens' credit for us parliamentarians has decreased clearly. Often you hear criticism that we here are not able to make smart decisions. Yes, the peat has now proved this quite tangiblely true. Although it is explicitly stated in the Government Programme that peat will be abandoned in a sustainable, moderate way, nevertheless this will not happen, as has been seen now. We already have to look for substitute fuels, wood chips abroad — completely absurd. Security of supply: Not even the corona has taught us what security of supply means, what self-sufficiency means. This is with a thing you just can't comprehend, not with the best will you can get. Yes, it is our duty here to make smart, well-founded decisions that do not undermine the economy, nor our self-sufficiency or our security. This kind of thing is really scary and certainly does not increase our trust in the eyes of the citizens. This is what it feels like when you go in from the hinged side and the ass ahead of the cheater. I've never had to do this in my life before, but now I have to. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u277	Mr President! There is, of course, a lot of good in this report, as we heard in these previous speeches and as Mr Kiviranta well described. The calculation of the electricity tax in industrial plants is a welcome reform, and specifically supports this good and sensible climate policy. But that turf thing is one thing you can't shut up about. After all, everything went into the walls when the decision was made that peat is not renewable energy. However, it would be good if Parliament also recognised the scientific facts. Compared to the use of today’s peat, the amount of peat will increase by about three times every summer. Mr President! Since I am critical, I must also make a proposal for improvement, and my proposal is such that when we know how much peat comes in each year, at least that annual increase will be used. Then climate policy will be sustainable, quite clearly. Now I feel that this turret-down is a matter of honor for some people and for some representatives, with no regard for the facts at all. If a plant using peat stops, it is calculated that an emission reduction will occur when the peat is burned out. That is not the case at all. Emissions increase as wood is driven around the world and fossil substances are burned as support materials. Peat's renewable. It's not a fossil. That's how it is in Sweden, isn't it? In Sweden peat is renewable energy and is allowed to be used, but in Finland political jealousy — or for what reason, I do not understand the reasons — has been stopped and done this kind of disservice to Finnish industry. Mr President! The big danger is that we are endangering the future of the Finnish forest industry in this country. Today it is cheaper for the forest owner to sell it for energy, whether it be logs or fibres, than for Enso's buyer or for the Metsäliitto or UPM buyer or anyone else. It is much more economical to make that decision. There is no head or tail in this policy if this is the way it is done. We are putting the future of the Finnish forest industry at risk.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u280	I would just like to say, on the basis of your speech, that we have the journalists' magazines empty every day because of this corona situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u281	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 9/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u282	Mr President! The report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection was unanimous in amending the Law on the Protection of Building Heritage and Chapter 48, Section 6 of the Criminal Code. This small bill can in principle be described in a single sentence: it is a matter of dismantling unnecessary bureaucracy. Bureaucracy is being dismantled. There is no need for unnecessary articles. In other words, the draft Law on Building Heritage will be amended in such a way that the decision to subject the Ely Centres to the Ministry of the Environment for confirmation will be abandoned, and these decisions will be taken quite much locally. That is why it is important that, when the municipalities act, this should be done by consensus, and precisely so that local citizens and NGOs are consulted there. The protection of buildings in this country certainly attracts a great deal of interest, but it is important to note that this legislation, too, is not trying to achieve red tape; on the contrary, red tape is being dismantled. The report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection was unanimous and decided to accept this government proposal without amendment after consulting many experts and after having had a good debate on the matter. I hope, Mr President, in this context that, when the laws are dealt with in this House, we will have the same practical sense in these big, truly important legislative proposals as in the case of peat — that we will have the common understanding of what is best for this country. I think it's such a big deal that it's worth going to the podium to talk about it every other day. If you can't do it every day, at least every other day. — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u283	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. The matter was put on the table at the plenary session on 26 November 1920. A maximum of one hour shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Secretary Henriksson is here. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u284	Mr President, värderade talman! First of all, thank you to the citizens' initiative makers. It's not an easy question. Society's approach to drugs includes both a health policy and a criminal policy perspective. The strict criminality of the manufacture, supply and sale of drugs is based on international UN conventions and EU instruments, as well as lists of banned substances. They set the framework conditions for the criminal law regulation of such acts. International agreements do not require the penalisation of use. The use of EU regulation has been left to national discretion. According to Section 2a of Chapter 50 of the Criminal Code on the use of drugs, ‘everyone illegally uses or uses a small quantity of drugs or tries to obtain a small number of drugs, must be convicted of using drugs from a criminal offence to a fine or imprisonment for a The penalty scale allows sanctions to be imposed in the case of fines. Cannabis is the most commonly tried or used drug. Cannabis experiments have quadrupled in the Finnish population from 6% in 1992 to 24% in 2018. This means that almost one in four Finns has tried cannabis in their lifetime. The Government’s decision on drug policy is currently in preparation for the Government’s cooperation group. There is no discussion within the government about abolishing the criminality of cannabis use. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Justice will issue an opinion on the citizens' initiative during the parliamentary procedure. Mr President! I also think that in this debate it would be a good idea to focus on what we could do more to prevent drug use, what we could do more to stop the feeling of nausea, drug abuse and outsiders, and that we all need to work together, as parents, friends, neighbours.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u285	Mr President! Society communicates through laws and regulations what kind of activity is appropriate and what is not. Drugs, whether mild or hard, are harmful and dangerous to health. The ban is based on the desire to protect life and health, and those who endanger this act criminally. As a person who has seen the life of drugs nearby, I find it sad and blue-eyed to talk down the use of cannabis as an innocuous activity. Studies show that attitudes toward cannabis use are more positive for people who have firsthand drug testing or use. Fewer drug users start their use history directly with hard drugs, but they move on to the stronger ones than the doom. Alcohol also has a known influence on experimentation and use. It is understandable, in a certain way, that illegal activities should be legalised. The citizens' initiative is justified by the fact that the criminal labelling of cannabis use makes life difficult for young people. However, I welcome the continued impunity of use, because I believe it will raise the threshold for experimentation. For some cannabis experimenters, intervention by the police can be a stop-to-use experience. Furthermore, the police are not in favour of legalising cannabis use and their views should have weight in the eyes of our legislators. They take the view, based on experience gained from the field, that cannabis should not be allowed to be used. If the use of cannabis is released, the use and thus the health damage increase, and domestic drug crime and also international drug crime are powerfully taking over the Finnish drug market. Liberalisation of cannabis use also leads to increased use of other drugs. Mr President! Users of drugs and other drugs are victims of their addiction and must be helped to get rid of their addiction as soon as they are willing to be treated. The current treatment system is not sufficient. There are also large local differences in access to treatment. Finland’s substance abuse strategy dates from 97 C.E., so it needs to be updated. When the strategy is updated at some point, it must also take into account those close to people with substance abuse problems. The substance abuse problem is not limited to a person suffering from addiction but affects the entire family community. At its worst, it paralyzes those close to you to work, thereby contributing to the loss and cost to society. They also need peer support and, above all, hope that the crisis will be overcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u286	Mr President! It is good to raise issues in the debate, which is what this citizens' initiative is doing. Instead, I disagree with the objective of the citizens' initiative and do not support it. The initiative proposes that the personal use of cannabis, possession of cannabis, should not exceed 25 grams, should be allowed in Finland. This would mean that a person could hold 50 doses if a 1 gram becomes two doses. In my view, possession of such a quantity of use does not in principle support the fact that it is even in possession for its own use. The third initiative proposes that Finland should allow cannabis to be grown for its own use when it does not exceed four flowering plants. According to the current conservative profit estimate, one plant will produce 25 grams of cannabis if only the flowers and the top leaves of the plant with the highest THC content are taken into account. In fact, under favourable farming conditions, the yield of a single plant is many times higher than the amount I have seen above. Mr President! I am concerned that I have recently followed a debate in which even some of us decision-makers speak in favour of legalising or decriminalising cannabis. I have also heard that some people believe that our country's drug policy has failed or that its direction is completely wrong. The above-mentioned views are defended by the fact that the problems are not solved by punishment but by treatment. In that sense, I do agree that adequate access to treatment must be guaranteed for those with drug problems and, in certain circumstances, punishment will also be avoided if the treatment offered is accepted. In fact, the police are trying to direct users to treatment. However, the number of people who are susceptible to treatment has not been very high. Nor do I see the registration marking as an obstacle to access to treatment, as health care personnel do not report the person seeking treatment. Mr President! As far as I am concerned, the current criminal law is fully up-to-date on this issue. The penalties for serious drug offences are severe, as should be the case, but, instead, the penalty for use offences with a penalty scale or a maximum of six months imprisonment is, as a rule, either a remark or a fine, unless the user is guilty of other, more serious offences. As far as young people are concerned, it is customary that, when a young person is caught for the first time, a young person is addressed by the police, the second time by the prosecutor. In addition to the prosecutor and the youth, the prosecutor’s address is attended by the police, social worker and parents. This is to make the young person wake up and intervene as early as possible, which I consider to be a good thing for young people. The main rule is that after this interview, the prosecutor makes a decision not to prosecute and there will be no fine for the young person. In practice, there is no record of the use of a criminal offence because, as a rule, that penalty is a remark or a fine mentioned above. On the other hand, the offence of use becomes an entry in the police register, for which information can only be requested for a limited purpose as defined by law, such as the security clearance of the authorities. On that point, I agree that a single offence of use must not, of course, unduly complicate the future of a person, but that does not mean that we should, however, legalise or decriminalise cannabis. I think that would be a completely wrong signal. I consider it justified that certain professions should also be consulted on police records and that labelling restricts people's employment opportunities for certain professions for a limited period of time, not for the rest of their lives. I do not think that many people here wish, for example, that a police officer or a pilot would do his job after smoking pot. In the case of drunk driving, the proportion of drug drivers has almost doubled. This will have a clear impact on the safety of each of us on the road, which I do not think is desirable either. Decrimination does not solve the problems associated with drug use except registration, but is that really the root of the problem? Short-term entries in the police register are not marginalized by young people, but by other reasons. Decriminalisation is also justified by the release of resources from the police to investigate other crimes. That is not true. The offences of use usually occur in connection with other police tasks, including security clearances, so decriminalisation of use does not release additional resources for other tasks. Mr President! Finnish drug use has been growing strongly since the 1990s, and there is no reason to decriminalise cannabis, which is the most commonly used drug in Finland. At the moment, the threshold for experimenting is frighteningly low for young people, and if punishment were abolished, the last threshold would be removed for many — that is a disservice for our young people and future generations. There is no point even in saying that if the number of experimenters increases, that the number of harms would not increase. Of course, criminal law alone does not solve the issue and prevent the use of cannabis, but there is also a need for cooperation, education and treatment between the authorities. But I certainly do not want to have to explain to any parent who has lost his child to drugs, why we allow it, not to any young people who are excluded or who have dropped out of school, why we did not set limits and support, not to any drug addicts or children who have wasted their lives, why our society did not stop and condemn those who have done wrong. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u287	Mr President! Mr Keto-Huovinen gave a very good and comprehensive speech here, and I agree with these views and ideas. I would also like to thank Minister Henriksson, who has come here late in the evening to deal with this issue and has also spoken well. In this context, we must thank the government for not following this approach to the citizens' initiative. Of course, it has been worrying that inside the government, among government ministers, there have been messages in which we would like to legalise not only cannabis but also stronger drugs. The initiative to eliminate the criminality of cannabis use would certainly send the wrong message to the public and lower the threshold for cannabis use. Here, the last time this was discussed before the case was suspended, this initiative and the need for an initiative were justified in order to support better access to health care services for drug users. That is an important objective, but I do not think that this initiative, if it is implemented in any way, would contribute to it. Even now, the police are directing users to treatment, and there is also an interview or comment without any other consequences from the police. Health care professionals, doctors and nurses have a duty of professional secrecy with regard to the use of cannabis or drugs, so access to health care does not in any way affect the criminal liability of a person for the use of drugs. I believe that the police should also listen to their views. It has been made quite clear from the police that the police consider the current possibilities to be important and do not support the abolition of the impunity of cannabis use.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u288	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank the Attorney General, Mr Henriksson, for being here late at night. I do not know whether there will be great wisdom here, but it is a matter of principle that the Minister is interested in the citizens' initiative and in such an important issue, which is, as it were, problematic and syndrome. On the other hand, I am a little surprised that the Minister of the Interior, Mr Ohio, whose Greens are perhaps the most pro-drug party in Finland, has not arrived, even though these problems have fallen on his property and possibly will fall even worse as the use of hard drugs has increased in recent years. In general, culture is a question of certain attitudes to certain things. I regret to say that, in my opinion, we have far too much of a pro-drug culture. I don't know where that pro-drug thing came from. But it may not help very much that we criminals build hero stories, as it were. They're on Yle and there in the papers at any time, and I don't think this should be the case. Perhaps more should be said at school and in education that 261 people died from drugs in the year before yesterday than in traffic, and that is just the tip of the iceberg. One can only imagine — and we parliamentarians must realize — how much suffering has come to these families, to the loved ones and to the whole family when they have seen what happens to drug users and how bad that way is when they are driven into the full possession of drugs. And that's not enough. Painting this modern picture is pretty easy for a layman. All you have to do is read the magazines I trust, so we know that organized crime is taking on even more. Unfortunately, it involves an increase in ethnic crime, although it is difficult to admit to some, and it also includes the use of younger children as couriers. We have a certain legislation which, to the extent of its criminality, does not give minors access to the adult population. When this is the case, then Finland must form its own line, whether it is a less positive opinion or a more positive one. I myself am sympathetically opposed to this citizens' initiative, as is the case with the Coalition Party. But Finland must form a clear line, and of course it must be what the Minister of Justice has pointed out: we must do everything we can to make it easier for these young people who have been addicted to treatment and help them. And the other line, which the Minister for the Interior and this yellow budget book have unfortunately not taken up, is the determined prevention and control of organised crime. We need to put more police resources into it. I understand prevention, but that's not exactly how it's done. There are two different issues: how these problems arise — and must be addressed — but also,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u289	Mr President! The citizens' initiative to abolish the criminality of cannabis is now being discussed for a second time. It is gratifying to see that this time the Minister is here to take part in this debate — thank you very much for this. Over the last week, I have received a great deal of contact and comments on this subject. It is very important to note that, among those who are in favour of abolishing impunity in particular, the practical problems that exist here are either not to be seen or not to be seen. I hope that the government will be able to see them, but if not, I will be very happy to help. The elimination of impunity is justified, inter alia, by the fact that there are otherwise problems with seeking treatment. There is a very strong obligation of professional secrecy in health care. This should be known to everyone. Only in the event of a serious substance abuse problem and possession of a driving licence will the doctor be obliged to report. This comes from Section 21 of the Driving Licence Act. This article is applied to all substances, and in practice the reports are alcohol-related, and even in such cases the symptoms must be significant: liquor cramps, obvious malfunctions of activity and motorism, and so on. I just checked with the Eastern Finland Police Department to see how many reports of drug users seeking treatment have come from health care. That reading is a round zero. In addition, self-declarations are highly confidential information, so it is also extremely unlikely that problems will arise. If a citizen seeks treatment and has drugs in his possession, the police are still not informed. The police will only take possession of the drugs, but they must not know who they were in possession of. When a citizen is caught in a drug use crime, he or she should be offered treatment. If he agrees, you can't punish him. Very few, however, seize this opportunity. Clearly, the majority of random users do not find use a problem, so treatment is not wanted. There is, on the other hand, a lot of indiscretion among problem users. In the case of minors aged 15 or over, it is the practice not to impose penalties, but to refer them to social services, to police interviews and, possibly, to treatment. The legislation also makes it possible that if a small amount of cannabis has been used in a private space, it is not necessarily necessary to impose a fine. In other words, we have had some degree of decenalisation in place since 2001. However, it is very often argued in these discussions that this is not the case, even though it has been in force for 20 years. In the name of the Portuguese model, they swear loudly. It is true that drug deaths have fallen there, but at the same time it is effectively forgotten to mention that this change has required enormous investment in treatment. Treatment should be given immediately and comprehensively. At the same time, it is also forgotten what sanctions will be imposed if there is no commitment to the programme: a travel ban, cuts in social aid, administrative fines and so on. Do we have the kind of treatment capacity that such a change would require? For example, there are currently 12 treatment centres in Kuopio, two of which are for drug users. We don't have forced treatment, and it doesn't work. Getting rid of substance abuse problems requires, above all, a strong will of your own. It is also worth understanding in this situation. There is also often an appeal to save police resources. The police could run after the bigger crimes and villains. We wouldn't have to do surveillance. This is not true either. Even if legalised, decriminalised or depented, the use and possession should nevertheless be regulated and controlled. When caring would be a crime and possession would not, there would be a magic trick. In one hand, the substance would be illegal, and in the other hand, it would become legal. How can this be monitored in practice? What about THC levels? With the use, tolerances increase, and we need to get a stronger substance. Does it really matter what kind of concentrations we're playing at here? How would you say that when it would still require laboratory testing? This list goes on, but let's move on. The Minister of the Interior has stated that all drugs, not just cannabis, must be punishable. If there is no crime of use, it means that drug users have legal access to weapons. One defender of the abolition of punishment has just declared to me that this is how it should be. I would like to ask the Minister for Internal Security in this country: is this the case? A considerable number of other crimes are discovered through use offences. After all, they would no longer be accessible in the same way if the crime of use were no longer a crime. According to the results of global monitoring and research, crime has not fallen in countries where cannabis has been legalised or decriminalised. Only property crime has fallen, but other crime has increased. Illegal care has not disappeared, but has also increased. And the most worrying thing about these results is that organised crime has clearly benefited from this situation. How certain is it that we want to make a productive hand in this matter, particularly with regard to organised crime? Again, it would be a good question for the Minister of the Interior, but he is not here to give an answer. There has been a lot of talk about the use of cannabis, and this citizens' initiative is also strongly based on it. Drug use is a matter of its own and should therefore be excluded from these discussions. For example, good results have been achieved in the treatment of MS. We have painkillers that are opiate-based, and ADHD drugs are amphetamine-based. There shouldn't be anything special about this arrangement. Mr President! Here are just a few practical problems that will result from the abolition of impunity. There are a few practical things that I am particularly concerned about. What prevents us from developing treatment? Nothing. There is therefore no need to abolish impunity, because we must bear in mind the impact this would have on children and young people if we were to increase tolerance and change attitudes in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u290	I would point out that the Council of Presidents of Parliament has in due course dealt with the presence of ministers in relation to citizens' initiatives, and the decision in the Council of Presidents, where all parties are represented, is that there is a minister of responsibility, who is in this case the minister responsible for the citizens' initiative, the Minister for Justice. In addition, there are no instructions that other ministers should be present. This is a joint decision in the Council of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u291	Mr President! I must say, with a little admiration, I listened to Marko S.H.I.E.L.D.'s views. I'm sure he has more of that everyday experience in these matters than any of us. As a layman and as a father of four children, my own view is based more on emotion in this matter. Of course, the citizens' initiative on the table to eliminate the criminality of use raises a lot of conflicting ideas and feelings, and there are clearly divisions in this House as well. Personally, I certainly do not support this type of liberal drug policy. I do not think that this is a question of fundamental rights or human rights, as has been said in some previous speeches. This morning, at the Police Advisory Council, we received extensive information on juvenile delinquency and the problems surrounding it, and the police management is currently concerned about drugs and their increased use and availability. It's a perfectly clear one, which then supports all this crime. Under no circumstances do I want to be legislative in support of the development that has clearly taken place among Finns in the drugs sector at the moment. More and more use is not considered dangerous. The availability of drugs has been eased, and more and more people are experimenting and using drugs, as has been said here in the past. A population survey conducted by THL around drugs this year revealed a number of trends, which of course are even more worrying. For adult age groups, the health effects of drugs have risen from 2% to 5% in ten years. The most worrying aspect is that the attitude towards the health effects of drugs has also changed significantly from bad to worse. The availability of drugs has been facilitated and increased. They are offered to up to 30% of people between the ages of 15 and 30. Mr President! Personally, as legislator, I do not want to support this worrying development, which is going on and has completely shattered the lives of many families and young people. I also think that this initiative is very contrary to the views of the substance abuse policy of the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u292	I would just like to say at this point that the Minister is now in a hurry to go to the next place. That if there is anything important, please let me know so that you can speak when the minister is present. Otherwise, I will give him the floor after Mr Kopra has spoken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u293	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for being able to listen to these contributions during the dark hours of the evening. At a time when the number of problem drug users, especially young people, is reported to be greater than ever before in Finnish society, we are now discussing such a citizens' initiative to legalise cannabis use. This is an equation that I do not understand and do not accept. In the same way as the use of other drugs, the use of cannabis must continue to be penalised, and so I do not support the abolition of the criminality of use proposed in the citizens' initiative. The availability of drugs today, through a variety of anonymous channels and others, is all too easy and no more needs to be placed on the tray. Drug use has increased slowly but surely, as have drug deaths and many other problems associated with use and, in particular, with the lives of users as a whole. Drug use is often motivated by mental symptoms, depression, anxiety, and other forms of nausea. To deal with this problem, we need both new legislation and resources and concreteness in the field. The range of treatments has not developed at the same rate as the use of drugs, and it should also be noted that many users do not even want treatment, for which reason. This is evident from the fact that even in the case of a crime of use, the possibility of treatment is already being offered, even in such a way that punishment can be withheld if it is agreed to. Something must be wrong if and when you don't see the problem and you don't want to go to treatment. It is also unclear how much more resources would be needed for management mechanisms with increased use. Mr President! The debate on the legalisation of cannabis raises more questions and concerns than answers to anything better. It should be borne in mind that drug use offences often also lead to a higher level of crime, and even this opportunity to facilitate the work of the authorities must not be taken away — it would be contrary to the general sense of law. Finally, I would like to say that it is up to us adult people and legislators to set an example, especially for young people. It is our responsibility to build this society responsibly for children and young people. It also includes demarcation between right and wrong, demarcation between healthy and unhealthy life. Drug use should not be promoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u294	Now I say that there are so many speeches here that the Minister will answer, and then you will be free to go to the next job.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u295	Mr President, värderade talman! Thank you for your excellent contributions. An important debate, a difficult debate, but I think it is very important that we in society also have the opportunity to discuss difficult issues openly. One of the things that was raised here was that other ministers would have thought something of it. Perhaps it is the case that every party chairman is responsible for his or her own position and that the government acts as a government. As I said earlier, there has been no discussion within the government about the abolition of the criminality of cannabis use, and we do not have such a record in the government programme, and I am not in the process of introducing such legislation in the Ministry of Justice. Now it's a citizens' initiative. Parliament will decide how to deal with it, and the Committee on Legal Affairs will be the committee that will certainly deal with this carefully, and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will contribute to it. Personally, like many other representatives in this Chamber, I am very concerned about the situation where we are in Finland. Drugs are also available in very small localities today, and this development is worrying. We also know that we need a wide range of measures, we need intersectoral cooperation. That work has to be done in the municipalities, it has to be done at various levels, and, as has been pointed out in many of these speeches, there is also international and organised crime behind it, which in many countries is causing us both justice and home affairs ministers a great deal of trouble. That is why there is a great need for cross-sectoral and cross-border cooperation. I would also like to point out in this context that as part of the Government Programme, the Ministry of Justice has launched a crime prevention project aimed at preventing prolonged criminal and substance abuse spirals through a new approach based on comprehensive and multiprofessional support, and the piloting of these approaches will start in Oulu, Rovaniemi, Vantaa and Turku. It is important that such work is carried out, and I personally hope that these pilots will also provide national models that can be used around Finland. We must therefore act on a number of levels and we need more police officers. After all, the government has also decided that this term of government will increase the number of policemen. There is a need for detective youth work and, in general, active work with and for young people in our municipalities, and this is also what the government has invested in. Then I think we also need new approaches, new ways of working with young people, and we also need to take those weak signals seriously. I will also make sure that we are able to help the parents. I know that when drugs strike, it doesn't ask what the socio-economic background is. It strikes all families, and all parents need help, and so do the young and the children who are going down this road. With these words, Mr President. It is a good thing for Parliament to continue this debate. All in all, this is a difficult matter, but that is why the citizens have chosen us here, that we should also resolve difficult issues. We must take responsibility, and in such matters that responsibility is particularly heavy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u296	Thank you, Minister, for being here. — Continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u297	Mr President! Indeed, thank you to the Minister, and we understand these timetable pressures very well in this Chamber and do not mind this. In his speech, the Minister expressed with great dignity the fact that tackling the drug problem requires a wide range of instruments and a wide range of measures. Thank you, too, for bringing up these small municipalities. We should not imagine that it is like sometimes in the 1970s when drugs were mainly the problem of Helsinki and a few other major growth centres. Today, unfortunately, they have landed in very small rural communities, and yes, I think there is much to do with this culture — that is, with a culture that talks about entertainment, which in some way suggests that drugs are no longer a serious issue — with its own influence on the widespread spread of drugs. The Christian Democrats do not accept this aim of the citizens' initiative to eliminate the criminality of cannabis use. Yes, I have in mind when I came to this house in the early 21st century as a representative of the Parliament, and then almost every year there was a delegation of mothers of these drug users who told the tragic stories that when, indeed, in the 70s their children were involved in drugs, what had happened in these situations and situations, and what had become of the suffering to families and close circle of drug abuse. Yes, very many of these stories had the background that this gate theory had indeed come true, that is, first started with cannabis or similar, and then very quickly there were intravenous drug users, so there are no harmless drugs — there are no harmless drugs. I received a message on Facebook today, and there was a father who said that today you were discussing cannabis and that his daughter, whether it was in the first or second use, went into psychosis and then life has gone crazy. That we must understand that with drugs we are always at a very serious time. This is the representative. S.H.I.E.L.D. well described these many claims that they wanted to remove the penalty, and he one after another they shot down, and I do not repeat them that way. I think it was important for him to remind us that the hand-out to organised crime will take place through it if we think that this abolition of impunity would help in some way in this situation. This would help precisely organised crime. Representative Eestilä has taken up the responsibility of this media.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u298	Mr President! Mr Eskelinen made a good point here at the Police Advisory Board that the police consider the most important problem at the moment is the organised crime related to drugs and all the mild phenomena that are being built around the use of drugs. The representative, Essayah, went into practical everyday life here, which can result after the first or second use. I myself am familiar with these cases, but perhaps this is not the time to discuss them. Why this is also important for national security and internal security, and why I myself, and I do understand the administrative procedures, need the Minister for the Interior to be there to discuss when the Parliament is specifically for debate: the problem of this citizens' initiative falls very far into the administration of the Minister for the Interior. I remember, 2012 when we had Päivi Räsänen, who sits next to us as Minister of the Interior — if I remember correctly, and I have some memory, some things I remember and not all — that he made a speech about the toilet, that when this Drill Three is carried out, then the police will have more discretion, where it allocates resources and what it considers to be its priorities. In my opinion, you spoke in this way as Minister, and this is precisely the case, that, at the moment, when this problem is the biggest in the eyes of the police too, this is of course a) the question of resource allocation, and b) then I agree with Mr S.H.I.E.L.L.L.D. that, of course, these police resources should be increased even more significantly than what the whole Parliament is trying to achieve, i.e. the 8,000. I don't think that's enough when we look at this crime development. Mr President! Personally, I am a layman and I do not understand very much about police work, even though I have sometimes dealt with some of the crimes in the back seat of a police car, but as far as I am concerned, the police must have the tools to deal with drug crime, the police must have the opportunity, if I have correctly understood, at least to a certain extent with fake purchases and thereby address this problem. I do not know how the prosecution and the judiciary deal with it, but in some way these evidence issues are also related to this criminal policy and how drug offences and the mechanisms and details that can be condemned, because the fear of drug offenders must be that punishments are tougher and then more easily faced with acts that are completely irresponsible, because unfortunately this pro-drug atmosphere, which is now in place, is derailing very young children, up to 12 to 13 years of age, into an incomprehensible path. In my opinion, this is a cowardly activity, and of course it is worth it, and, as I said earlier, these children are also being used as couriers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u299	Mr President! The citizens' initiative to abolish the criminality of cannabis should, of course, be taken seriously. Drugs are a worrying part of our daily lives, with problems and problems, and this part continues to grow. We must continue to work more on this issue. It is so important that it would have been desirable for more MPs to have taken part in this debate – after all, there has also been a glimpse of the possibility that Oy Suomi Ab would grow and care about cannabis. That's a very special point of view. Of course, it's some kind of statement if you don't take part in the debate. As already mentioned in the previous speech, children and young people, it is very stopping that we have such ten-year-old cloud rings no longer have a special and rare issue. In the past, at least they understood to run away when the adult came to that place, but now there is no more what is happening, in their own way, about the attitude that has taken place among children and young people. Let us talk very, very serious things about which we must take them seriously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u300	Mr President! As early as the first round of the referral debate, it was verified that the debate on substance abuse and drugs is very often a subject with a huge variety of misconceptions. It seems very sad that this subject in particular is such that facts don't really matter at times, but the most important thing is to be able to spread their attitude. Intoxicant and narcotics policy and the debate on it have important consequences for the lives and future of many people, and it is therefore extremely important that this debate is conducted on the basis of research-based facts, not on the basis of their own fears and prejudices. At its worst, stigmatisation means that drug users are afraid to seek help and health care. It's no good to anyone. Cannabis is not a problem-free substance. Despite this, substance abuse policy should not be made in black and white, but based on the latest research and expert knowledge and human rights. The continuation of the current sanction-based and discriminatory substance abuse policy is an eye-clouding problem and does not help addicts. Intoxicant addiction is often a disease, and what other diseases are treated with fines and punishment? It should also be remembered that not all cannabis users are problem users, so that problems may even be created by penalties and control. Mr President! I will go over some of the incorrect arguments put forward in the next debate. Claim 1: If you are in favour of harm-reducing substance abuse policies and the abolition of the criminality of substance use, you are pro-drugs. Answer: Wrong. Support for the abolition of punishment has nothing to do with pro-drugism. It is a question of a policy of substance abuse that reduces harm in many ways is more humane and effective than punishment in dealing with substance abuse problems. The aim is to reduce the stigma and social and health damage caused by the use of drugs to the person concerned, his environment and society. Health advice that reduces harm is socially cost-effective. Claim 2: If you are in favour of harm-reducing substance abuse policies and the abolition of the criminality of substance abuse, you ignore children and young people. Answer: Wrong. The current sanctions policy is particularly harmful for young people, who may even have occasional trials of use which may lead to legal sanctions and registration marks that stigmatise and expose them to exclusion. Harm reduction activities provide help and care instead of punishment and ensure that young people do not fall outside mental health and other support services. It is also particularly important to ensure that young people are properly informed about the risks of cannabis use and the possibilities for treatment and support. Claim 3: Cannabis acts as a gateway to problem use of hard drugs. Answer: Wrong. The most common substances are tobacco and alcohol. Nor has it been possible to prove that the gate theory is valid on the basis of the studies. Claim 4: The abolition of the criminality of cannabis use leads to an increase in the dangerous drug business. Answer: Wrong. This citizens' initiative does not represent decrimination of the sale of cannabis, so the situation would remain the same. Claim 5: The abolition of the criminality of cannabis use increases the use of cannabis and the resulting disadvantages. Answer: No research display. Portugal, among other things, decriminalises the use of all drugs and the possession of small quantities in 2001. Decrimination did not increase the use and reduced the risk. According to THL, decriminalisation produces better results in tackling drug use. Studies show that the abolition of criminality makes it easier for drug users to seek help and treatment. Decriminalisation enables drug users to become more integrated into society and improve their learning and employment opportunities. In addition, the impact and costs of drug crime on the police, courts and prisons will be reduced. Claim 6: Legislation based on the punishment of substance abusers is a good way to prevent problems caused by substance abuse. Answer: Wrong. Punishment-based prohibition policy has not worked to eradicate drugs in our countries or globally. For this reason, substance abuse policy is being reinstated in the world, and the International Narcotics Control Board, which is also close to the UN, has suggested that priority should be given to the health and well-being of people rather than to a resource-consuming drug war. Mr President! Before that, I just listed some condescending misconceptions. I think that in politics words are deeds, and that is why it matters how we talk about drugs policy. If we use a language that stigmatises and despises users and incites fear and threats, it will further marginalise those with substance abuse problems, and it will be increasingly difficult for them to get help and rely on the authorities for fear. Even now we know that drug users are, as it were, legally allowed to view them as second-class citizens, as if they had no dignity at all. This must not be the case. No group of people should be treated this way. Mr President! For me, the most important thing in dealing with drugs policy is to consider what kind of policy would best promote human rights. Drug users are also entitled to a decent life. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u302	Mr President! I believe that all the consequences of drug use, both for society and for individuals, must be taken extremely seriously. According to recent statistics, the number of drug deaths has increased rapidly. According to THL, almost 200 people died of overdose last year and the number has nearly doubled in a decade. Half the dead have been under the age of 30. The proportion of people on the road under the influence of drugs has also been rising. During the first quarter of this year, the share of other drugs exceeded for the first time the number of traditional drunk driving offences. Violent crimes, on the other hand, often involve alcohol, drugs, or mixed use of drugs. According to police statistics, this may be the first year during which more crimes are committed under the influence of drugs than under the influence of alcohol. Mr President! Although the Internet has made it easier to acquire drugs, the online drug trade is only one channel of commerce. Trafficking in drugs on the streets has become more transparent and also causes a lot of disruptions in order. According to estimates made by several field police, it may be easier for young people to get possession of drugs than of alcohol. Most drug use offences remain a hidden crime, as there is far from sufficient resources to control street trafficking and expose other drug offences. Mr President! We decision-makers need to address the drug problem. The government must safeguard the financial resources of the police and other authorities and improve their capacity to deal with drug crime and prevent drug trafficking on the streets. If this is successful, it will also have a positive impact on the security of public areas and on the public perception of security. Mr President! In this context, I am also surprised by the proposal to start growing cannabis for sale on Finnish farms, for example, from the ranks of the government parties. Rural areas and their livelihoods need to be developed, but I think it should be done by investing in clean food production, for example. Mr President! As I said at the outset, I think it is very important that Parliament continues to be very strict on the use, possession and sale of drugs in all situations where there is a problem of non-medical use. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u303	Now I say that we have a few minutes to reach a predetermined date. Mr Räsänen's speech will fit in here, short enough, and then we will have to suspend it if there are speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u304	Mr President! When Mr Honkasalo arrived, I would like to point out from his speech the previous time that he branded the opponents of this citizens' initiative, that is, using such a concept as narcophobia, that anti-decrimination of cannabis use would be narcotics. I would now like to say that I personally refuse to take on this kind of medical stamp, the phobia mark, not in this and not in other matters. Let me add, Mr President, that cannabis is often associated with the idea that it is in some way a harmless or innocent drug. However, it must be borne in mind that cannabis may be addictive and also, as researched, subject to mental health problems, such as psychosis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u305	Brief reply, Mr Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u306	Mr President! I dug up the speech I made a week ago, and by no means did I say that the opponents were narcophobics, but I said that the drug policy debate may occasionally be marked by this kind of narcophobia, and I then explained in my speech what it means. I think it is important to keep to the facts in this respect too, when reference is made to the speeches made by colleagues. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u307	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. In this context, the debate will also be allowed on the 14th to 25th day of the agenda. on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u308	Mr President! This bill is part of the alternative budget of the Christian Democrats, and it is proposed that the increase in fuel tax, which came into force in August, is withdrawn and the Annex to the Act on excise duty on liquid fuels is amended to reflect the previous legislation. In other words, the tax table of the Act on excise duty on liquid fuels would be amended to reduce the excise duty on transport fuels such as motor gasoline, diesel oil and biofuels replacing them. The change in tax would target both energy content tax and CO2 tax. Unfortunately, this increase, which was made by the government, leads to significant additional costs for the transport sector and, consequently, for the rest of business. Therefore, in order to improve employment in Finland, I hope that this initiative will receive positive treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u309	Mr President! I will make sure, at the beginning, that I understood correctly that we can use these presentations from several points, up to paragraph 21, in the same context. [The President : Yes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u312	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u313	Mr President! Mr Essayah has already made the point. — — — — It is precisely for families with many children to be removed from the incentives to accept work when, in the case of siblings, early childhood education payments would be waived. With this reform, we are also seeking positive effects on fertility, as this too could encourage families to reach the number of children they want.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u314	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u315	Mr President! With regard to this initiative, which is part of our alternative budget, Mr Essayah has already carried out this actual presentation, but I would like to say, in more detail, that this child reduction was actually in place when the Christian Democrats were involved in the government with a few other parties. Unfortunately, it has since been removed by the Sipilä Government, and this removal was unjustified, because in the past the child allowance system was created specifically to compensate for this child supplementation and the child allowances have not been corrected, so this child allowance should not have been abolished. Here we are proposing the amount of EUR 100 for each minor child who is dependent, and if there is only one guardian, then this would be EUR 200 for each child, and the amount of the allowance would be calculated on the basis of a maximum of four children.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u316	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u317	Mr President! This initiative is on behalf of Mr Laukkanen, and it is also included in our alternative budget. The problem behind this initiative is that, according to the government's proposal, the average income tax will increase by around 0.2 percentage points, by a maximum of 0.4 percentage points, because the indexation in line with this government's proposal is not sufficient. Here we are proposing an index check of 3.5 per cent instead of an index check of 2.5 per cent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u318	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u319	Mr President! This initiative is on behalf of Mr Tanus, who has been very grateful to us for presenting this baby money initiative in the past. The need for additional support of this one-off EUR 1000 would help to ease the financial situation of families with children, but also to act as a positive signal that all babies are welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u320	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u321	Mr President! When Mr Tanus is working at a distance today, like many Members of Parliament, I shall briefly present this on his behalf and at his request. It is proposed to amend the VAT Act to increase the VAT threshold for small enterprises based on turnover for the financial year instead of the EUR 15000 proposed by this government to EUR 20000 from the current EUR 10000. This is aimed at supporting and encouraging businesses and thus promoting employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u322	Mr President! This bill has, in fact, already been discussed in that committee, because it is indeed intended to raise this minimum VAT limit to EUR 20000 instead of EUR 15000 for this government proposal. Here, when we were discussing budgetary laws, the Christian Democrats lodged a similar objection and, in fact, there has already been a vote in this Chamber on this issue, but since this technique goes in such a way that these alternative budget bill initiatives will then be dealt with when the alternative budget has come to the debate in the Chamber, we of course already know the fate of this initiative in that sense. In any case, this is extremely important. Of course, in the future, we must strive within the EU to achieve harmonisation of these thresholds for VAT. At the moment, the differences are really large, the differences between tens of thousands of euros in relation to these thresholds, and in that sense this bill is indeed necessary and takes things in the right direction. Mr President! Next, I would also like to present the alternative budget of our group, which was first signed by Mr Tanus, on the return of the coeliac compensation for the legislative initiative: In that sense, the coeliac allowance is also an important issue for Christian Democrats in this respect, because the representative Marja-Leena Kemppainen from Oulu who once worked here in the house was the one who made this allowance for coeliac disease in Finland and worked for it here in Parliament and got majority support for it, and that is why she seems to be the honorary chairman of the Keliakia Association today. Of course, we hope that this allowance for coeliac disease will be returned, not just because of this KD background, but because these people need it. It is not often remembered that for celiacs this diet is the only cure. I recall that during the last term of the government, when this was cut off, there were such incomprehensible speeches about diets and that it was as if this was an optional diet or something like that, but the KD would really like this celiac allowance to be returned. Then I would like to introduce a legislative proposal to amend Articles 11 and 11a of the Student Aid Act, which therefore raises the question of the study material supplement: the Christian Democrats would like to be here to ensure that no child or young person's studies are caught by the parents' purse. In that sense, we would like these targeted measures to be more effective than then this categorical increase in the compulsory school age of the government. With regard to the household allowance, I would like to mention that we would like to see this reduction in household allowances withdrawn as proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u323	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u324	Mr President! At the beginning of 2016, the Sipilä government abolished the dietary allowance for celiacists. Prior to this abolition, the amount of the allowance for celiac disease was EUR 23 60 cents per month. It must be remembered that according to Kela’s statistics, there are over 30,000 recipients of the celiac disease allowance. Diet is the only medicine for celiacs, and we therefore believe that the gluten-free diet and its replacement should be compared to medical treatment prescribed by the doctor, thereby restoring the dietary compensation for celiacs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u325	The 20th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u326	Mr President! As Mr Essayah said earlier, with this initiative we want to improve the educational material supplement, raise it and extend it to a larger number of students by raising these parental income limits. On the other hand, we do not support the government's proposal to extend compulsory education, which is a costly reform and to which we consider the resources invested to be at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u327	The 21st item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u328	Mr President! This bill is first signed by Mr Östman. It's part of our alternative budget. We propose that the household allowance be returned to the same level as it was in 2019. With this initiative, we are seeking to encourage employment and work in households and, at the same time, to combat the informal economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u329	The 22nd item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u330	Mr President! This initiative is the first to be signed by Mr Östman. It is part of our alternative budget and this will ensure that our budget and our proposal are balanced. Here we propose that the right to deduct from the contributions of social partners be changed so that only half is deductible. With this we are seeking an increase of EUR 90 million in government revenue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u331	Mr President! Was it the case that there are other points here as well...? [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne : May the following, yes. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u334	The 23rd item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u335	Mr President! The first signatory of this initiative is Mrs Antero Laukkanen, who is working at a distance today, and on her behalf I will briefly present this, including Mrs Essayah. This initiative proposes that VAT on vegetables and fruit should be reduced from 14% to 10%, and this is primarily because of health reasons and also because of climate policy. At the same time, I note that food is still being taxed in Finland at a very high level compared to other countries in the European Union, and we think it would be wise to go ahead with this reduction, particularly in relation to these health-friendly foods.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u336	The 24th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u337	Mr President! There has been quite a lot of discussion about the therapy guarantee in Parliament. In this initiative, which is part of our alternative budget, we propose that the therapeutic guarantee be approved and implemented next year, as set out in the citizens' initiative. Mr Essayah has already outlined this in detail and explained why this is important. I would add that it is estimated that this would cost around EUR 35 million a year, but it must be remembered that mental health problems, for example, have already become the main cause of disability pensions. If we can prevent these, this reform will certainly pay for itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u338	The 26th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-02-ps-156.u339	Mr President! This year, I drew up a total of five budget initiatives. Three of them concerned additional acquisitions of videoconferencing equipment for the courts, the Prosecution Authority and the Criminal Sanctions Agency. After the initiatives were tabled, I was glad to see that this money came into the seventh amending budget of the government, so thank you to the government for that. Instead, I intend to activate my budget initiative on the consolidation of the operation of interest rate dogs. Dogs have been trained and their incredible smelling ability has been utilized in countless different tasks and has been invaluable in detecting drugs, explosives or various diseases, for example. The University of Helsinki already reported on its research in the spring, which showed that dogs may distinguish samples from healthy people and people with coronas faster and even more reliable laboratory tests. When PCR equipment requires 18 million molecules to detect infection, only 10 to 100 molecules may be sufficient for the dog’s nose. It is true that there are still many open questions to be asked about the use of dogs and further research is needed, but let us not forget that the PCR tests also have their own challenges and weaknesses. We are living in such exceptional times that I believe that every means must be used to keep our society as open as possible. I think dogs are one part of this equation. Mr President! I have also proposed appropriations for the construction of an express stop at the Mäntsälä railway station along the Lahti motorway. The majority of work traffic between Mäntsälä and other municipalities is located in different parts of the Helsinki region, mainly in Helsinki, Vantaa and Järvenpää. The aim is for an increasing proportion of the population to have better access, which could encourage a reduction in the number of private cars, and it could also lower the threshold to take work from elsewhere where it would otherwise be too difficult to travel to work. Between Helsinki and Lahti, there are currently approximately 30 bus and coach services on the motorway in their direction within 24 hours. Getting these shifts into Mäntsälä's public transport supply would be a significant improvement in the current supply. In addition, Helsinki-Lahti traffic is market-oriented, so the operation itself does not require any aid. Due to transport emissions, the vitality of municipalities, labour mobility and smooth everyday life, I believe that the public transport infrastructure should be invested at the level of the State, as the benefits are spread over a much wider area than the individual municipality. - Thank you.
