ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u2	Mr President! This proposal is therefore concerned with condensation restrictions caused by the corona pandemic and the pressures of the risk of infection to organise statutory real estate deliveries and meetings of shareholders within the meaning of the Joint Forest Act and the Joint Regional Law. The proposal is therefore temporary and has already entered into force in spring 2020, and it is now a matter of extending its law. It will allow these meetings to be held remotely or in limited detail in writing or to be postponed in early 2021 in order to prevent the spread of the pandemic. It shall be noted that the meetings shall be held as soon as possible after the obstacle has ceased. It is a matter of minimal interference with the procedures and matters of decision-making, and the proposal under discussion is therefore very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u3	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u4	Mr President! This is therefore a new feed law which would repeal the old law of the same name. In this new package, the earlier ambiguities have been brought together and corrected, and the draft law clarifies the activities compared to the previous one. Effective legislation ensures a level playing field and fair competition. Here we take a position on the main means of ensuring that our agriculture is free from salmonella, food safety and, among other things, extending its control to domestic peace. In this bill I see it as justified. The effectiveness of supervision is improved, the recordings of counselling and guidance are appropriate. This bill is also part of the fight against the shadow economy, and, for example, the penalty payment is an administrative coercive measure in this case, an appropriate increase. After the bill has been proposed, it will be easier to target controls, to obtain information from other actors, such as the tax authorities, and they will see that sufficient rights are coming. However, it is a fact that non-payments of premiums, the number of enforcements of taxes and other general charges, have a direct correlation with animal welfare. Here, as in many other sectors and in various areas, we must pay attention to the fact that the authorities have sufficient and necessary information and exchange of information. Overall, this is a well-supported and expected package of corrected products.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u5	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u6	Mr President! The proposal proposes a new Animal Health Act. It does not contain major changes in substance. It is a good and important thing that the proposal leaves sufficient national room for manoeuvre. It should be noted that the disease prevention and control measures that safeguard the animal health situation in Finland are at a relatively good level and should continue to be so. Some comments were made in the expert hearings. Not all customs offices have premises in which pet animals can be kept whose entry conditions are not met. There are also no quarantine facilities for these animals, and the committee believes that this should be corrected. The Committee also notes the need to improve the regulation of animal trade. For example, the import of dogs and puppy factory are rampant. It is a huge problem, especially in the countries of the south and in Central Europe, and it brings puppies up to a couple of weeks of age, mainly to Finland, and Customs is on the verge of having these things. Fortunately, there is now a possibility of a mandatory identification mark for dogs in connection with the new Animal Protection Act, and it is envisaged that it might be in force as early as 2023. It has been a long time before this improvement can be achieved, but it is a good thing that this is the case. This is one thing that may at least prevent this criminal puppy production. Korona has also raised the issue of the fact that in Denmark, for example, minks have had to be stopped to a severe extent. Fortunately, fur farms in Finland do not yet have this problem, but it must be closely monitored, and the new Animal Health Act allows for rapid action if necessary. Sikarutto has also spread — fortunately not yet to Finland, and hopefully it will be brought under control everywhere. It is a very dangerous disease, and if it gets to Finland it means destruction and it means really great problems in meat production. Finally, Mr President, I would like to raise the issue of animal welfare and animal-protection offences and the fact that the animal police in Helsinki have been launched less than two years ago. At the presentation of Detective Toni Lahtinen, this was presented and came into force, and Detective Anne Hietala is the head of this investigation team. It is familiar with the crimes against these animals and their investigation, and there has been tremendous feedback from veterinary surgeons, official veterinarians. This job has worked great, and you might hope that this practice will come all over Finland. We have 11 police districts, and if we could get these policemen involved in animal crimes to investigate these matters better, that would mean that other police officers would then be able to focus more on other, just the actual crimes, when there are experts like this who are just bullied with animal crimes. There are some 700 animal welfare offences in Finland every year, and that is only a small part that will be revealed. However, this proposal, which is now, was quite unanimous and good and should be supported. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u7	No, Mr President! So it is not a major substantive change to our national laws; it is mainly a question of implementing and supplementing the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, which, fortunately, gives a fair degree of national flexibility. The obligations of this law relate mainly to the places where animals are kept and the operators responsible for them, but this has its own meaning, for example, for food processing companies, transporters and brokers. The obligations and rights of the various actors must be clear and understandable, and there must be sufficient advice here. In the framework of this law, for example, the wider role of the authorities now put before Customs will allow better control of animal diseases and no longer requires prior requests for assistance. However, a timely and striking example of this in its entirety is the situation of corona pandemic, which has become apparent in Denmark as corona infections of minks to humans and animals. Particular attention must therefore be paid here to the opinion of the THL and to the need to prepare legislation on animal diseases in such a way that, when new serious diseases are detected between animals and humans, the legislation must allow for a rapid response to control measures. According to the Committee's opinion, this bill currently meets such requirements, but it must be kept up-to-date. Overall, however, it is also necessary to take into account proactively the extent of possible damages for the livestock farmer and the genuine functioning and effectiveness of the compensation system in order to avoid large losses on different farms. All in all, this is a good and worthy proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u8	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u9	Mr President! By means of this law, municipalities are encouraged to strengthen the municipal structure by voluntary means by removing barriers to the economy. It should be noted that we do not currently have the legislation in force to support the reunification of municipalities. This is therefore discretionary consolidation aid and can be granted within the framework of the state budget. In the event of a budget allocation, the grant would be at least EUR 500000. We really must hope that, for example, this aid will help to mobilise these municipal unifications, because we need to have one way of strengthening democracy among many others. The proposal is very good and worthy of support and I hope it will move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u10	The plenary session shall be suspended for a meeting of the large committee and resumed at 3 p.m. at the end of the meeting of the large committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u11	We shall now resume the plenary session adjourned at 1.17 p.m. today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u12	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 26/2020 vp. After the Constitutional Committee has adopted its position in the report on the illegality of the procedure of Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto, in accordance with Article 114 of the Constitution of Parliament, the matter must be decided upon. Parliament can now decide either not to press charges against Secretary of State Pekka Haavisto or to reserve an opportunity for him to give an explanation. Mr Ojala-Niemela, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u13	Mr President! I present the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the review of the legality of foreign minister Pekka Haavisto's office. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that Minister Haavisto has not committed any illegal acts within the meaning of Article 116 of the Constitution in the case in question. The committee considers that although the Haavisto procedure in one of the cases, which is a reminder, must be regarded as contrary to the Administrative Law and the Foreign Service Act and therefore to be reprehensible, Article 116 of the Constitution does not raise the requirement of readability and does not meet the essential requirement of breach of the Minister's duties. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore considers that there are no conditions for prosecution. This matter has been brought before the Constitutional Committee on the basis of a reminder made by ten Members of Parliament. The committee's report deals mainly with the reminder I mentioned above concerning the planned transfer of the consular officer to other tasks. However, the committee will also take a position on other points of reminder, namely the pressure on officials to take illegal decisions, the appointment of a special representative and the referral of the matter to the General Assembly of the Government. The committee considers the wording of the decision setting up the Special Representative to be problematic, but otherwise the committee had no comment to make on these matters. Mr President! Next, more specifically, on the reminder of the consular officer's transfer. The reminder asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to examine whether the Foreign Affairs Department had acted legally when the consular officer had been moved to a new post, away from the post of consular officer. The Constitutional Affairs Committee has examined the question in the light of Article 6 on the principles of the administration of the Administrative Law, Article 17 of the Foreign Service Act on the transfer of an official, Article 9 on the infringement of Chapter 40 of the Criminal Code and Article 10 on the infringement of an obligation to act and Article 116 on the conditions for bringing a ministerial charge against the Constitution. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Minister Haavisto's attempt to delegate the consular officer to other tasks may, mainly at the initial stage of the process, be judged to have had operational needs in relation to the management of the Al-Hol issue. However, Minister Haavisto appears to have exercised his discretion in breach of the requirement of proportionality arising from the administrative law by ordering the consular officer to prepare for a full transfer from the post of consular officer to other tasks without explaining the possibility of measures less lacking in the status of consular officer and by continuing this preparation after the reorganization of the preparation of al-Hol matters. The committee also considered it important that only part of the duties of consular officer were involved in the management of the al-Hol case. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also considers that a lack of trust in such a context does not justify a transfer under the Foreign Affairs Administration Act. In the committee's view, Minister Haavisto has used his discretion, at least to some extent, in relation to the principle of purpose-dependence laid down in the Administrative Law, in giving a mandate to prepare for the removal of the consular officer due to the views expressed by the consular officer, which are different from those expressed by the Minister. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the validity of the Haavisto procedure cannot be considered to be limited as a whole. However, the Constitution has also made it a condition for the prosecution of a ministerial charge to be brought against a person who is deliberately or grossly negligent in terms of readability. There is no evidence from the pre-trial investigation that would justify that the requirement of intent or gross negligence would be exceeded. In this respect, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to the following points. Minister Haavisto's procedure has been a question of giving an oral preparatory mandate to officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to delegate the consular officer to other posts in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Minister has the right to rely on the proper and legal nature of the preparation. In this context, neither the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Haavisto, nor the officials, were given any comments or doubts as to the legality of the preparatory mandate. The transfer of an official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to another post under the Foreign Affairs Administration Act is, as such, part of the operational activities of the Ministry’s Human Resources Administration, whose legal activities are primarily carried out by the officials concerned. On the basis of the pre-trial investigation data, Minister Haavisto has apparently not been made aware of any doubt that the preparatory work has not been carried out in accordance with the law. In the Committee's view, the evaluation must also take into account the fact that the decision to delegate the consular officer to another post was never finally taken. The suspicion of unlawful conduct is therefore linked to the preparatory action for the transfer and its preparation. The preparatory work will also include the clarification of the legality of the measures to be prepared. In the Constitution, the prosecution of ministers is also conditional on a substantial breach of the duties of the Minister. The following points are relevant to the materiality requirement: The alleged unlawful procedure for Minister Haavisto is located in the issuing of an oral preparatory mandate and in the alleged procedural errors in the preparation of the matter. No decision was taken to delegate the consular officer to another post. It has been a matter of preparing for the transfer, in which matters relating to the legality of the transfer are also to be clarified. On the basis of the pre-trial file, the consular officer has not contested this project after having been informed of the preparation of the case for the delegation of the mission, but has continued to prepare the matter in consultation with the consular officer and in accordance with his wishes. In such a setting, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs finds it difficult to see an unlawful procedure that goes beyond the requirement of materiality in the Constitution for breach of the minister's duties. The committee was not entirely unanimous and the report contains an objection. Finally, in its position within the meaning of Article 114(2) of the Constitution, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that in the case in question, Mr Haavisto, Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto has not acted unlawfully within the meaning of Article 116 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u14	Thank you for the introduction. — Let us now give Mr Haavisto the floor for five minutes. After that, we go to the debat for about half an hour and then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u15	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mrs Ojala-Niemela, for presenting the report. The reminder to the Constitutional Committee has now been discussed for a year. The time is long in the political calendar, one quarter of the parliamentary and possible government term. It has also been a long one for me in that I have not been able to comment on it in any way because of its confidentiality. It would have been better for me to have a more public hearing. After becoming Minister in June 2019, the matter related to the Finnish children at the Al-Holi camp came to my desk. I understood that this had also been a matter for consideration by the previous government, but no solution had been found. I understand that there would also be legal responsibility for failure to act. The UN Committee on the Rights of the Child has registered a complaint concerning Finland regarding the situation of children imprisoned in Al-Hol. As a minister, I have been responsible for organising the work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs so that the responsibilities of the ministry in this matter will be taken care of. In fact, the reminder to the Constitutional Committee covered all the activities of the Foreign Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to help the Finnish children of Al-Holi. Amongst other things, the reminder raised doubts about pressure on ministerial officials to engage in illegal activities, the suspicion that the appointment of the Minister's Special Representative would not have been lawful, and the suspicion that the matter would not have been properly brought to the attention of the Government. With regard to these matters, the committee has not found the Minister's procedure to be reprehensible. The question remains of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' arrangements to ensure that Al-Hol's affairs and tasks are also carried out without delay at the Ministry. On these issues, the committee's report contains reproaches for the Minister. I said at the briefing on Wednesday and I would also like to say in front of this great Chamber that I will accept these criticisms, I will look carefully at the report and I will take account of the comments made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in all my future activities. The Constitutional Committee and this Chamber are the highest decision-making bodies when considering the implementation of the ministerial responsibility under Article 116 of the Constitution. It is a principle of the rule of law that the decision of the supreme decision-maker is respected and respected in each case. In addition to the criticisms I have received, I have also noted the unanimous passage in the committee’s report on page 14: ‘The Constitutional Affairs Committee considers that the presumption of non-crimination of criminal law is justified by the fact that Article 114(2) of the Constitution referred to in Article 114(2) of the Constitution of the Committee on the legality of the ministerial procedure does not include an assessment of the legalability Only in cases where the Constitutional Committee considers that the procedure fulfils the requirements of Article 116 of the Constitution, the statement of illegality within the meaning of the Constitution is justified, without prejudice to the decision of the national court.’ There is obviously also a motion of censure on today's agenda for the Minister. The Minister's role depends on the confidence of his own political background group and parliament. Without the confidence of Parliament, no day can the Minister act. Mr President! For the Foreign Ministers of the future, I have only the advice that matters must be dealt with even in difficult situations, especially when it comes to the protection of Finnish citizens and the rights of children. It is better to justify giving aid than not giving help.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u16	Thank you. — And now I ask those representatives who want to participate in the debate to press the V button and stand up. This debatable phase lasts about half an hour. The deadline for replying is a few minutes and then it closes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u17	Mr President! I understand that Minister Haavisto has tried to do the best for children's rights, which applies to these Finnish children in the al-Holi camp. He has taken action, as he himself said here, and now we are in this process where we know quite a lot about these things, what has happened technically here. The majority of the experts listened to by the Constitutional Committee felt that Minister Haavisto had not acted unlawfully. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs estimates that Haavisto has committed an official offence, but the Minister's threshold for prosecution is not exceeded. Once the Constitutional Committee has come to this conclusion, as we have heard, this is the highest possible body for assessing this issue, and of course we, as parliamentarians, will have to say that this is a matter of contentment. Perhaps, however, as a bigger line, we must look at what the ministerial responsibility is in relation to the machinery in which he works, and we must see that he is, however, a political leader in it. We have a large number of countries in which the whole administration, including the United States of America, will be changed and the Minister will act in accordance with its instructions. This dilemma is, of course, behind us in this theoretical sense, and I recognise the situation in the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u18	Mr President! Indeed, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that this has not been done intentionally or in a manner which requires gross negligence, and therefore this threshold was not found, but it is also stated that this act cannot be regarded as minor. In this situation, we have to go back a year now when the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed these same issues in a situation where children were brought to Finland from al-Holi camp — or discussed whether they could be brought to Finland. At that time, the Committee on Foreign Affairs also disagreed that we were given the right information or that we were given the information at our time. [Daytime Interval]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u19	Mr President! In its own report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that the Foreign Minister has acted in breach of Article 6 of the Administrative Law and Article 17 of the Foreign Service Act, although not in such a way as to exceed the specific threshold for prosecution in relation to ministerial responsibility. However, in their own party communication, the Greens have tried to confuse this point by appealing to this kind of arithmetic that how many experts felt about it. However, this cannot ignore the fact that the Constitutional Committee's solutions are not mathematics, but the Constitutional Committee assesses the credibility and weight of the arguments put forward by experts and has come to certain conclusions. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Haavisto, if you will.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u20	Mr President! In the area of ministerial responsibility and, in this case, in the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there is a legal process and an assessment, and I would like to emphasise that, in the area of ministerial responsibility, too, we have a criminal presumption of innocence: a person is innocent until an independent court condemns or certifies otherwise. So until then, a person must be considered innocent — in this case too, if he does not go to the court of the kingdom. I think it is important that this legal process is kept strictly separate from the political process. The way in which this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is being communicated, I am very concerned, and I think it has been in a way to undermine the authority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that there is no need to prosecute a minister for liability in the national court, but it does give the blame, and they must be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u21	Mr President! The debate started with the arrival of 20 members of the Constitutional Committee. On 31 December 2019 a reminder signed by the fundamental Finnish MPs Mari Rantanen, Veijo Nieme, Jari Ronkainen, Jussi Wihonen and Tom Packalén, Heikki Vestman, Kalle Jokisen, Kari Tolvanen and Wille Rydman, and Christian Democrats Sari Tanus, calling for an examination of the legality of foreign minister Pekka Haavisto's duties. The reminder asked for an examination of the measures to be taken regarding the repatriation of Finnish citizens in the Al-Holi camp or of children and families who ended up there from Finland. Reporter Unto Hämäläinen said in A-Studio that the report on Haavisto was a closed political process for the Coalition Party and representatives of the People's Republic of Finland. This is, of course, a matter for everyone's own discretion, but a reasonable similarity seems to prevail over it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u22	Irade the Talman! There has also been a debate on the Constitutional Committee around this process and, let us say, the stages of the process have perhaps even called into question to some extent its role, which is regrettable because it is valuable that we also have a constitutional ex-ante evaluation. The Constitutional Committee is an important institution. But from the point of view of credibility, it can be seen as a problem if the reminders are also involved, and that is, in fact, also contrary to the parliamentary committee guide. It is clearly stated that it is not appropriate for a member to sign a reminder on account of the specific role and function of the committee and the aspects of a fair trial. So we must also take hold of these things and consider what is appropriate and what is
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u23	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to this timetable. This has been a long process and certainly not an ideal situation, and I thank the Minister for his patience in this matter. This is really 19.12. last year, we got started, and the next morning we started to deal with this, but then there was a recess, and at the beginning of February we continued to deal with the matter, when we asked for a preliminary investigation on a limited number of points. This preliminary investigation was completed in mid-July, when the session was open, and at the beginning of September we started to deal with it. And now the autumn has been quite a lot of work on this, but unfortunately, at this final stage, too, a representative of the Corona's illness and these corona tracings then prolonged this completion. But in short, this is the part of the schedule. With regard to the signatories to the reminder, we explained at that early stage of the process that there is no legal obstacle to their being involved, but of course:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u24	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is indeed a well-founded and lasting legal entity. Legal matters have been kept separate from policy and the committee has assessed this matter with particular care. Indeed, the committee believes that the procedure of Foreign Minister Haavisto in the case of the transfer of consular officer to Tum should be regarded as contrary to the Administrative and Foreign Affairs Administration Act and therefore reprehensible. However, the committee does not consider that the threshold for a ministerial charge is exceeded. Mr President! Personally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Minister cannot go against the law and the principles of good administration in order to achieve an acceptable goal. Compliance with the laws is particularly important in the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u25	Mr President! The Constitutional Committee is neither a court nor a criminal court, but it is important for the credibility of Parliament and for the credibility of the Constitutional Committee that no party, after the report has been finalised, should start to make public the message that the good intentions of the Minister are the basis for breaking the law. I suppose it must be said in this Chamber that I hope that every party understands its great responsibility and does not in any way spread such a message to Finnish society that a good purpose, such as children's rights, would be a reason to break the law. Public action must always be governed by the law, both by the Minister and by other officials.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u26	Mr President! I am concerned that documents kept secret have been leaked to the public during the long process of the Constitutional Committee. Efforts have been made to influence the activities of the committee externally. The committee's report has been questioned afterwards. There has been some misleading information about the resolution of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The professional skills of committee advisers have been criticised. All of this undermines the authority of the Constitutional Committee and the foundations of our democracy. We all have a place to look in the mirror. There is a need for an in-depth debate on this issue in every parliamentary group. It is our joint duty to take care of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u27	Mr President! Together with Mrs Holopainen, we submitted an objection to the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the subject of Mr Haavisto, Foreign Minister. We considered, on the basis of the majority of experts consulted by the committee, that there were sufficient legal grounds for the transfer of the consular officer. These legal bases should now be discussed. The objection is therefore not based on the number of experts, but on the broad arguments and arguments behind their statements. Leaving a different opinion or objection is not unusual. I hope you will refer to the objection, the opinion of the experts and the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Unfortunately, it now seems that many people label a protest as political without getting to know it. But I agree with one of the concerns raised here earlier. There have been several leaks in the Constitutional Committee during this debate which do not respect the authority of the Constitutional Committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u28	Mr President! I think it is important that, in future, any politician who is skilled and experienced can also act as a foreign minister and have to compromise and act in a very challenging environment and at the same time have to reconcile different standards and standards. I therefore believe that it is a good thing to be here, and I hope that the legal scholars will have a careful debate on the way in which human rights and other legislation, especially administrative legislation, are compatible. It has been interesting to follow the views of the experts in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I find it interesting that the expert on which the majority of the committee appears to be based himself says that he has not included human rights aspects in his examination.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u29	Mr President! According to the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Foreign Minister has not infringed Article 116 of the Constitution. However, the report mentions that the Minister has acted in violation of the Administrative Law and the Foreign Service Act. It is obvious that the Constitutional Committee has interpreted Article 116 of the Constitution with purpose. It is clear from the wording of the article that the intent and gross negligence highlighted by the committee in its decisions concern the violation of the duties of the Minister. However, the Minister has clearly acted unlawfully in his duties, so, Mr President, according to the same provision, the prosecution should be brought.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u30	Mr President! I would return to what Mr Salmon said and to which Minister Haavisto also referred in his reply. It is stated here — in the coming of the Constitutional Committee — that there has been a violation of the Administrative Law and the Foreign Service Act, but nowhere does it say that there has been a violation of the Penal Code. It is well written there that it is open to interpretation whether criminal law has been violated. It has now been pointed out in public writing that the arraignment threshold of a normal official has been exceeded. In the case of such infringements of administrative laws, the typical example is that it is a serious infringement, that it is appealed to the administrative court and that the decision is, for example, annulled — and rarely does the decision-maker go into criminal proceedings to prosecute the misconduct, the quotes of an ‘infraction of office’. And this distinction should also be kept strictly in mind in this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u31	Mr President! It is clear from the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that on 22 October 2019 these Al-Hol issues were transferred to the Special Representative. However, it is clear from the same report that on 11 November the Minister wanted to delegate the official who was originally in charge of the matter to another post. When these matters had already been transferred to the Special Representative, what was this all about? Was it revenge, or what? At the moment, every green one of those online spins that was right that the children were going to help. That is not what this is about, that is not what this is about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u32	Mr President! The only way to deal with this issue is to support the outcome of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Even though there were some reprehensible issues surrounding committee work in the last few metres, it still does not remove the value and legitimacy of the committee's long work. President! Each of us makes mistakes and wrong decisions in our lives. It's deep in the DNA of humanity. In the vernacular, I say that it has certainly been done here that the fence falls and, as the doors go through, the creeps are stuck in the neck. It will not be removed even by good intentions that have certainly accelerated the operation. Yet I defend the authority of the Constitutional Committee in spirit and blood. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs finds it difficult to see an unlawful procedure that goes beyond the requirement of materiality laid down in the Constitution for breach of the minister's duties.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u33	Mr President! The news today reported a woman who left Sweden to serve Isis who was captured in Arlanda as soon as she returned from Al-Hol, a failed Caliphate. The woman is suspected not only of contact with the Isis terrorist organisation but also of child abduction after taking her two-year-old son to the Isis region. So the woman was imprisoned, and the child was taken away from her mother. On the other hand, all Isis women returning to Finland are on the loose. No pre-trial investigation has been initiated and no coercive measures have been imposed on any of them. There's no record of any Isis woman's children even being taken into custody. Instead, these security risks have been brought into the country in the most brutal covert operation of the decade secretly, settled somewhere secretly, offered life support and maintenance with the taxpayer’s money.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u34	Mr President! There are many reasons for concern about the authority of the Constitutional Committee. These leaks are indeed startling, the involvement of those who have left behind raises unquestionably questions of independence and then there is this post-chat about public debate and communication. It goes without saying that each of us has pulled the corners straight, that the presumption of innocence has passed the charge of the crime, and that, on the other hand, there may have been an impression that these criticisms of the Constitutional Committee would be ignored. I do not think either of these is appropriate, but I must say that the Minister himself is not guilty of this. I appreciate that he has taken this report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs seriously. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u37	Thank you. — Let us try to ensure that the speaker's speech is heard here without any interlude.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u38	Mr President! As an institution, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is very important and its authority must be upheld. I am just talking about the communication that came after the publication of this report. The Group of the Greens deserves the Trump Disinformation Medal with the distortion that you deliberately misled the debate. There was no false image, but you consciously wanted to give rise to a false impression of what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u43	Mr President! Does the purpose sanctify the means and whether children are involved or not? It is quite clear, if you read these expert statements from the Constitutional Committee, that the Minister has had a clear and moral but also legal duty to seek active action to safeguard the rights of Finnish children in the camp, in accordance with both the Convention on the Rights of the Child and Article 22 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u44	Mr. Speaker! The solution of the Constitutional Committee is that the increased Minister's arraignment threshold will not be exceeded, but Minister Haavisto has acted in violation of the Administrative Law and the Foreign Service Act. Nevertheless, Minister Haavisto, you published a long blog yesterday underlining that nothing wrong or illegal has happened. Nor did you, in your own speech, admit to Parliament that you had acted unlawfully. This is the decision-making behaviour of the Constitutional Committee. It is the decision of the Constitutional Committee and the conduct of the rule of law that calls into question. So I ask you, Minister: do you respect the rule of law, in other words, can you say directly in front of Parliament that you have violated the law?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u45	Mr President! After very careful consideration, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has reached the conclusion, by a large majority, that the ministerial immunity threshold has not been exceeded but has been acted against two laws and that these criticisms cannot be regarded as minor. These criticisms therefore have nothing to do with action to get children out of the camp in Al-Holi, but, as the chairman of the Constitutional Committee said, with an official when these tasks had already been transferred from him.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u48	Mr President! As has already been said many times, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously felt that, in the case of Minister Haavisto, the prosecution threshold would not be exceeded. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u49	Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has found that the minister has violated the law in his official activities. This is a serious matter, but what has been the result? Here too today, the Greens criticise the work done by Parliament. The Greens have also launched an information campaign to ensure that the Minister's actions are whitewashed in the face of children's needs. This is arrogant disregard for laws and regulations; it is also a wet rag for Parliament. The Minister himself has also underestimated the matter in the media.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u52	Mr President! I recommend that the representatives take a look at our objection. I'm sure it'll give you better information, and even reading expert statements could be very useful. Furthermore, it is quite incorrectly referred to here that all the Greens have done something in terms of communication. I myself, at least in my own statements, have highlighted what the objection contains, what the expert reports say.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u54	Mr President! It is precisely when we first talked about the need to separate the legal and political aspects, that we are talking about the legal side, which concerns the treatment of an official, the treatment of a minister to officials, and then the political issue is another. Legality is clear: according to the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Minister has violated the law, but the Minister's threshold for prosecution is not exceeded. And here is the steak: the Minister's arraignment threshold is higher, because it is considered that political responsibility comes first and foremost before legal responsibility comes. And at this point I would like to ask Mr Haavisto when, unfortunately, you have taken this report of the Committee on Constitution seriously: do you feel that you should take political responsibility now?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u55	Mr President! What is the bigger problem, the fact that someone is trying to influence the very essence of the rule of law in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, or the fact that someone is leaking information about it into the public and that this is how things are going to come to the attention of the public? As a tip to Minister Haavisto, if you had initially drawn your conclusions and assumed your responsibilities, this would not have been so much the case. In this country, ministers have resigned from text messages and there is now a serious debate about the possibility for the Minister to continue in his duties if he does not go to court. This is absurd. The Minister's opening statement said that failure to act would have led to responsibility. What is the basis for this argument? And if action was taken, why was no political decision taken as to what to do? After all, this was the case for weeks and months. Why does the government not say what it intends to do about this? Why are you putting this responsibility on the back of the civil servants? Now those officials are in the process of being investigated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u56	Thank you. — The half-hour speaking time I initially announced, the period of debate, is running out. One last speech, Mr Gustafsson, followed by Mr Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u57	Mr President! I have a great deal of respect and respect for the work and report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but I must be honest with you at this point in the debate: The leading professor in seven countries — administrative, criminal and constitutional — stated that Minister Haavisto has not violated the Administrative and Foreign Affairs Administration Act. In addition to this conclusion, Parliament’s Ombudsman, Jääskeläinen, concluded that the role of the Ministry led by Haavisto, the policy he wanted, ‘the legalconditions had been checked by the Chancellor of Justice, the politicalconditions had been agreed in the Board of Directors and the operational conditions had been reviewed during the New House and DAG period’. I mean, there's a difference of perspective. I respect the Constitutional Committee,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u59	Thank you. — And then Minister Haavisto, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u60	Mr President! This is an important debate. But when my introductory remarks were apparently misheard, I will say in this connection that I will accept the criticisms, I will take a careful look at them. all the points raised by the report and I will, of course, take account of the comments and criticisms made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in all my future activities. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u63	Then let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u64	Mr President! I agree with the report presented above and the arguments put forward by the committee. I would just like to point out here that the difference between the report and the positions which have raised objections was so small that both of them can be found in the expert reports on a lasting legal basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u67	Mr President! In this case, Minister Haavisto's reputation has been deeply damaged. It has been a long time and one should have taken on political responsibility and, at the outset, resign from the minister's role. Even for smaller reasons, ministers have come to terms with divorce. Instead, the Greens have now wanted to use their protest to wallow the entire Constitutional Committee. According to the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Foreign Minister has not violated Article 116 of the Constitution, but it does mention that the Minister has acted in violation of the Administrative Law and the Foreign Service Act and has acted in reprehensibly. Let us say quite frankly that the Minister has acted, not only in a reprehensible way, but in an illegal way. It is obvious that Article 116 of the Constitutional Treaty has been interpreted by the Constitutional Committee. It's purpose-oriented. The short section reads as follows in its entirety: ‘Requirements for the prosecution of a Minister: a decision may be taken against a member of the Council of the State of origin ifthere is a serious It is clear from the wording of the article that the intent and gross negligence, which the committee stresses in its decision, concern the violation of the duties of the Minister. But the Minister has clearly acted illegally in his duties, so the same provision states that the charge should be brought. It should be noted that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that the validity of the Haavisto procedure cannot be considered to be limited as a whole. In any case, the activities of the Minister for Foreign Affairs appear to be a taalistic and unscrupulous one. It should be brought to court. Mr President! In any case, it is highly reprehensible that, according to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the foreign minister has been acting in violation of the Administrative Law and the Foreign Service Act, as well as by means of trick-or-treating and secretive measures, trying to bring an extremely dubious and perhaps dangerous group to Finland. I therefore suggest that Parliament states that Mr Haavisto, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u68	Mr President! The Constitutional Committee has finally completed its deliberations on the reminder made by ten members of the opposition party regarding the activities of Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto in order to release the Finns in the Al-Hol camp in Syria. The committee did not produce a unanimous report. The committee examined four questions, of which only one progressed to the preliminary investigation: has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs acted legally when the consular officer, Mr Tuominen, was tried to transfer from the post of consular officer to a new post? The conclusion of the Committee's report that there are no conditions for prosecution in the national court is clear and in line with the expert opinions that have been heard. There have been no illegal acts which would satisfy the conditions for bringing a ministerial charge. However, according to the committee's conclusions, the procedure of Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto in the project to delegate the consular officer to other tasks must be regarded as reprehensible. We largely agree with the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but we have raised an objection to the legality of Minister Haavisto's activities in relation to the transfer of Mr Tuominen. We, the signatories of the objection, believe that the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in accordance with a clear majority of experts, would have come to the conclusion that the foreign minister has not acted unlawfully on this transfer project. This matter has been dealt with thoroughly for a whole year now. A preliminary investigation has been carried out and the committee has consulted 11 experts on administrative law, criminal law and constitutional law. The conclusion of the majority of expert opinions is clear: the Minister has had an acceptable basis for transferring consular officer Tuominen to another post. Professor Tuomas Ojanen, Professor Veli-Pekka Viljanen, Professor Olli Mäenpää, Professor Sakari Melander, Professor Kimmo Nuoto, Emeritus Professor Heikki Kulla, Emeritus Professor Mikael Hidén and Parliamentary Ombudsman Petri Jääskeläinen. I will quote them abundantly in this speech. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs does not give any further justification for the solution chosen or goes through much of the arguments put forward by the majority of experts in its opinion. We are trying to balance the report internally within the committee, but because we did not receive majority support, we objected. Mr President! In the first place, the committee will assess whether the transfer has been subject to a so-called operational need in accordance with the explanatory statement of the Foreign Service Act and an acceptable reason for the purpose-related principle of the Administrative Law. In its report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states: ‘Foreign Minister Haavisto mentioned a lack of confidence as a basis for the transfer. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that a lack of trust in such a context does not justify a transfer under Article 17 of the Foreign Service Act.’ Unfortunately, this does not give an overall picture of the views of the rapporteurs. As Professor Melander says, the issue needs to be looked at from a broader perspective, taking into account the factors behind the lack of confidence. According to Professor Hidén, ‘the transfer under the Foreign Affairs Administration Act has been subject to an acceptablecriteria. A mere lack of trust between the minister and the official as such would not be sufficient. In this case, I think that sufficient justification has been to ensure a uniform policy of the ministry in a difficult and mobile situation.’ The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also notes that, according to the committee's assessment, the presence of a permanent operational need will not be supported by the appointment of a special representative for a short period of time. As the objection suggests, we disagree with this. As Mr Jääskeläinen says, ‘I find that Haavistois notthe subject of a preparatory mandate whenthe Special Representative’s mandate has not Mr President! The committee also assessed the proportionality principle of the Administrative Law, i.e. whether the Haavisto actions were proportionate to the objective pursued. In this respect, the committee notes that ‘the exceptional nature of the transfer project to the Commissioner in relation to the established administrative practice In their opinion,the experts in administrative law arefollowed by Professor Emeritus of Administrative Law Golda :‘Determination ‘ProfessionalMelander’s reasoning is as follows:‘It seems to me that there is at least a possibility that the second delegation was considered as a possible option in a situation Mr President! We who have protested believe that the majority of the committee in its report does not give sufficient weight to the legal obligation of fundamental and human rights to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u72	go to Mr President! About a year ago, this hall had a teary and long discussion about Finnish children at the al-Holi camp and whether Minister Haavisto had done the right thing in actively trying to help these children. The opinions and interpretations of the MPs were divided. Simply put, there were concerns about security and the idea of the indivisibility of fundamental and human rights. There was also a debate on the relevant procedures. At the time, Parliament confirmed the Minister's confidence, but that was not the end of the matter. Today we are again, perhaps we could say at last, on the table. The starting point for this was the reminder of ten Members of Parliament asking the Constitutional Committee to examine whether the Minister was doing the right thing. Four points were raised: pressure on an official to take illegal decisions, the appointment of a special representative, the referral of the matter to the General Session of the Government and the preparation of the transfer of an official. On this point, it may be well to say that, in relation to the first three, the committee did not therefore consider the ministerial procedure to be reprehensible. The official has not been put under pressure for unlawful decisions, the appointment of a special representative to deal with Al-Hol matters has been appropriate and the problem has not been identified in the decision-making process of the Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been working on a reminder for a considerable time. Three of the four points were found unfounded and the question of the transfer of an official was examined for a longer time. Mr President! The conclusion of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is that there are no conditions for prosecution in the national court. However, according to the committee's conclusions, the procedure of Foreign Minister Haavisto for delegating the consular officer to other tasks must be regarded as reprehensible. At the same time, the objection to the report points out that, according to a clear majority of experts, the legally justified conclusion would have been that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has not acted unlawfully in the case of relocation. It is interesting to compare the committee's report with the objections of two members of the committee. In a way, I think that, even from the point of view of history, it may be all right that this broad description of the different views of the experts expressed in the protest and the weighing between these different views should remain, as it were, in books and covers — even though there is a need to seek consensus in the Constitutional Committee as a matter of principle. As far as the matter on our table today is concerned, on the threshold for the prosecution of the Minister, the committee has been unanimous: the threshold for prosecution is not exceeded. Mr President! Some have asked why the perspective of children’s rights is still emerging. It has been said that this is more than just a question of Finnish children in a prison camp. I understand where this point of view comes from, but on the basis of the views of the experts consulted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I dare to challenge it a little. At the heart of the whole matter is whether the minister had an acceptable reason to delegate the consular officer to other tasks and whether this was proportionate to the rescue of children in the middle of the war from conditions such as the prison camp. The committee's report has not dealt with this very comprehensively, but it is clear from the objections to the report that a number of experts have considered this connection to be absolutely essential from the point of view of the legal assessment. It is therefore clear, as Mr Kontula has said here, that there is also a lasting legal basis for the legal assessment of the objection: the majority of the experts consulted by the committee have agreed on the same basis. This does not, however, remove the fact that the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has come to a different conclusion and a different legal assessment, which is, of course, what we respect and respect here. In addition to the conclusion on the threshold, the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has indeed found the Minister's action to be reprehensible in some respects. This statement should be taken seriously, as Mr Haavisto has done. There has been some confusion about this in the public debate, but I find the Minister's own statement to be quite exhaustive. He has said, both at the press conference, in public appearances and on two occasions here today, that he is taking these criticisms seriously and that he will take all the points raised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs into account in all his activities in the future. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank Mr Anu again. The fact that he has taken up these startling leaks as a result of the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been a matter of urgency. Thus, from time to time, the eyes of an external successor have seemed to have been the fly of journalists on the ceiling of the committee’s meeting room, so quickly the word has appeared to run from there to the columns of the magazines. It is clear that the media have, to a very large extent, the right to report on matters of social importance when they are brought to their attention. I myself am a firm advocate of transparency, and I believe that the work of the committees could be opened up more in many respects, but this is not about the media or transparency, it is about us parliamentarians and trust between us. I think it is vital for us to work together so that the rules of play agreed together and mutual trust can last even in stormy times. Even in divisive matters, the desire to understand and respect the thinking of a colleague who thinks differently can go a long way. By asking my colleague what you meant, whether I understood correctly, I am quite certain that the results will be more fruitful than the rip-off of my own assumptions in the columns of magazines — anonymously. Perhaps these last days' headlines and the rounds around this issue are some sort of time frame, but I personally hope and also believe that we can learn to disagree, to debat and to take a firm stand and at the same time act on one another in a spirit of trust, sincerity and respect. I also agree with President Anu Vehviläinen on the involvement of reminders in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the matter of ministerial responsibility. It undoubtedly raises questions about the independence of the procedure, and I hope that there will be a change in this matter. Mr President! At the end of the day. One year ago, in the mid-term debate, I said: ‘There is a parallel time for complex and simple. Complicated because the situation requires the coordination of a wide range of legal acts, threats, rights and obligations under exceptionally difficult circumstances, but simple because,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u74	Mr President! I'll pick up where the last speaker left off. As a Member of Parliament who was on the Constitutional Committee itself and who was involved in this matter and in the drafting of the report, I would say that the Constitutional Committee did not specifically deal with the issue on which the previous speaker ended, namely the rights of children. It did not specifically deal with it. It was, of course, part of the whole, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs examined a reminder made by ten Members of Parliament, which was a task. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been given some work to do and, once again in this Chamber, it has been questioned whether these reminders will be able to participate in this report, and I, as a Member of Parliament at least, defend both the rights and responsibilities of people, to the extent that they are no longer present in today's society. And if I am right, the drafts of the Minister's Liability Act have considered that the signatories of the reminder are not prevented from dealing with the reminder they made in the Constitutional Committee. And if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself has stated that these people can take part in this work, why is this Chamber once again questioning the functioning of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in this regard? This is an administrative procedure. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself knows the administrative procedure, it must know, and it must be based on something, but I am constantly wondering in this Chamber that there is some sort of attempt to throw the work of the Constitutional Committee under suspicion. This whole debate and public debate, even after the parliamentary report has been produced, has only been based on images, and good needs have been thrown all the time, which is why it would be acceptable to do something that does not enjoy the protection of the law, that is to say, to justify the means. It cannot be so in Parliament, because we in the Constitution say that public action must always follow the law closely, as I said in that debate myself. I would therefore like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and all the Members who have taken part in this report, because I must honestly confess that I am surprised at how neutral and how legally familiar these Members of Parliament were with this work, and they were able, surprisingly — which is a surprise to me — to clean up the political activity out of this. In other words, a clear majority were able to do this work by removing the political government-position limits, which are absolutely not allowed to exist in the Constitutional Committee, and also other political tensions, and by looking at the opinions of experts, which really differed to a large extent, it must be acknowledged. But from there, if anyone wants to look for differences, there are very many differences — school differences, prosecutor-based ones had their own view, some professor had his own view — but the committee had to make its own report. Experts have been consulted, but if we, each Member of Parliament, choose the points that we are going to go through here, this is a long sitting, and it does not alter the content of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in any way. And when I think of the time after what has happened in this report, I do find it problematic. It challenges the established role of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the parliamentary institution if we ourselves start spreading the information that everything has gone right when it has not gone. Of course, each of us knows that, in the final analysis, even before this debate was in the final stages, this Article 116 of the Constitution, which must be deliberate, must be grossly negligent, and they are not enough: to fundamentally violate the duties of the Minister, so that this matter can then be dealt with in the courts of the kingdom, and that is the question, after all, of public opinion perhaps too quickly interpreted what the Minister has done. As I said, the Constitutional Committee is neither a court nor a court of law. Yes, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has dealt with Section 7, Section 9 and Section 10 of Chapter 40 of this Penal Code, and it has referred to it so that we know what is at stake here, but we have not taken the view that to what extent there has been or been no criminal activity. That's not our job. In my opinion, the role of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should not be undermined too much in public, because if two cars are speeding on the freeway too, it cannot be condemned to the fact that everyone is speeding. In my opinion, the clear majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has acted with great responsibility. It has come to some end which has not been acceptable to two MPs and one party who have since begun to undermine the position of the entire Constitutional Committee, and there will be others who will then be [Eva Biaudet’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u75	Mr President! As has been said here, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs concluded that there are no conditions for prosecution against the Foreign Minister. That was the end of nearly a year of sobering up. The hearing began on 20 December 2019 when ten representatives of the People's Republic of Finland, the National Coalition Party and Christian Democrats left a reminder calling for a study of the legality of foreign minister Pekka Haavisto's official activities. These events related to the situation in which the State Department has been dealing with the acute situation regarding the security of the Finns who have been closed down to al-Hol in Syria. The issue of repatriation has been considered, as has been the case here in the Chamber in a number of debates. And contrary to what has been said here that there is nothing to do with the situation of children in Syria, it is very easy to find here in the material of the Constitutional Committee that this situation was about the presence of Finnish citizens in dangerous conditions, some of whom were children. That is where all this started — the need to release these children — and there was also a lot of political disagreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u85	Mr. Speaker! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that the Minister has acted unlawfully and therefore no longer enjoys the confidence of Parliament. I would like to put a motion of censure to Mr Haavisto. Today is a very sad day for Finnish democracy and the rule of law. We now have to deal with the investigation into the legality of Mr Haavisto's duties and with the report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I remember when I was a 14-year-old teenage boy in Oulu and on TV news, Prime Minister Anneli Jäätteenmäki kept flashing and talking about some paper and the Prime Minister's explanations about how he had tried to speak as true as he could. Finally, the prime minister had to resign after the trust had been lost. I didn't really understand politics at the time, and I was surprised that this is a wonderful adjustment. Last year I was elected here in Parliament and a year in my capacity as legislator and decision-maker has in practice taught me how important it is to have confidence in ministers who bring matters to us for decision and illustrate their backgrounds. Mr President! Indeed, there is no unnecessary record in the Constitution of the Minister's demand for honesty. We parliamentarians have a terrible responsibility when we press those ballot buttons to make decisions that directly affect the everyday life, well-being and security of all citizens. If the ministers do wrong behind our backs, we may be making fatal wrong decisions as a Member of Parliament or we will not be able to intervene in the course of the situation if we do not get the right information. During this period of red-green government, it has already seemed to be an impossible situation, especially as a member of the opposition, for us not to get the answers to the questions we are asking the ministers, for example, during Question Time. But even more uncomfortable is the fact that we have found ourselves many times in the situation, wondering whether the Minister is telling the truth and whether we dare to proceed on the basis of this information.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u89	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has produced its report, and thank you for your thorough work, it is always good, it is not that the processes are so long. It is also humanely burdensome, and in judicial processes it is generally considered to be a bad stretch. I'm not a lawyer. There's not a lot of us in this room. Quite a few lawyers would give their strong opinions without consulting the parties involved or getting familiar with the investigation and other materials. We, apart from the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have only been able to do so very incompletely with regard to the report and the documents that have been made public in recent days. I personally find it difficult to comment on the conclusions of the committee's report on the Administrative Law and the Foreign Service Act. I shall now try Mr Zyskowicz's wish to reflect on the administrative aspects of the ministries. Over the course of the year, I have been discussing with more than one minister — and let me make it clear that the non-greens — and asking what the process is for similar situations. It is certainly not the first time that an official and a minister and a government have differing views on how to act. According to the answers, an official may register a difference of opinion but is then obliged to carry out his duties. If you did not carry out your duties, there have been exchanges for other tasks. Of course, such a change of mandate should be managed by the supervisor in accordance with the Ministry’s personnel processes. It is appropriate to explain the accuracy of these and the fact that ministers are aware of the legal processes. I mean, I guess I saw it in all the ministries. I don't know where this has gone wrong. In any case, I understand that the official has not left a different position, not on the issue of children themselves, nor on the task of preparing for the transfer. That is what the chairman of the committee said at the press conference. He also pointed out that the process of preparing the transfer also included an examination of the legality of the transfer. The president also stated that there was no transfer. The objection of the members of the committee, i.e. the objection lodged by the Greens, refers to the position of the majority of those who gave the opinion that there has been no unlawful action in this proceeding. Here, for example, a quotation from Ojanen’s statement: ‘For the purposes of pre-trial investigation and use, the expert opinions on criminal law and civil servant law are considered clear that Foreign Minister Haavistohas not acted contrary to his/her duty to the basic standard of The majority of the committee has reached a different position on this point. However, the committee notes that, due to their mistakes, the threshold for prosecution is not exceeded, and the matter is therefore closed in this respect, following the adoption of the report by Parliament. The Minister has said that he will take the blame into account in his future action. More than this, the media have been talking about the preparation and process of the committee's report. This committee will have, among other things, a large social package to go through in the future, and if it is not possible for Members to discuss each other confidentially, whether it is members of the government or opposition, what kind of decision-making will be made? I find it difficult to hand over the constitutional proceedings that come into the hands of this leaking committee if the confidentiality of the committee is not restored. — I would therefore like to thank the President for his intervention. Part of this situation was probably already the case in Haavisto, where the speakers were sitting in committee to draw up a report. In an interview with the Democrat, Professor of Constitutional Law, Tuomas Ojanen said: ‘It is inappropriate that the authors of reminders assess whether there has been an irregularity in the Constitutional Committee, whether there has been a suspicion of a crime,and whether there is an examination of the case. If, in a normal legal life, the person who reported the crime was concerned with the role of the prosecutor himself and estimated that the prosecution threshold was exceeded,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u94	Mr President! Firstly, I think it is very valuable that Minister Haavisto is here to listen to this debate. And to begin with, I would like to point out that the rights of children have been mentioned here in many speeches, which is certainly quite clear, but we do not forget that, at the same time, there have been very radical women living in Caliphate in Finland. Mr President! It has been about a year since the ministerial responsibility issue was launched. At that time the reminder was considered inappropriate even by the former leadership of the country. However, it seems that it was necessary to clarify the legal aspect, and not the political action that it is once again suspected of being. The legal side is demonstrated by the unanimous position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, without the Greens, which stated that the minister had acted unlawfully, but that the blame was not higher than the threshold. If the parties that reminded us wanted to make politics, they would certainly have promoted prosecution or, at the very least, objected. Now only the Greens left the objection, and if anyone looks political, it is the Commission's Green Member's junta for the government parties and the Green Parliamentary Group's chairman's attempt to influence the inside of the Constitutional Committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that Mr Haavisto's actions were contrary to the Administrative and Foreign Affairs Act and its reprehensibility cannot be considered to be limited as a whole. However, according to the committee, there are no conditions for bringing charges on account of the Minister's increased threshold for prosecution. The legal aspect of the matter is now closed and, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has said, it is. Even if criminal liability does not occur, political responsibility should nevertheless be assumed. In fact, there is a reason for the Minister's increased level of prosecution, and that is precisely the priority of political responsibility. In practice, therefore, it means that the wrong minister resigns or is dismissed from his duties. I am saddened to see both Mr Haavisto and the Greens and the whole government swept under the carpet. Things are exactly what they look like. Ministers have resigned from less in Finland and around the world, for example in Estonia last month the Minister of Education resigned from misusing an official car due to the transportation of children to school, among other things. Finland has recently even stood out because of text messages, but recently the Ministry has also been a windy place and the screw-ups have led to exchanges of people. In this case, has the hand been raised as a sign of error? — No, the hand has not risen. According to the report, in its response to the committee, Minister Haavisto denies that he has done wrong. In the Greens' communication and blog, Haavisto emphasizes the opinion of experts who are in favour and defends the procedure in the best interests of children. There's a real greenwash going on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u97	Mr President! I support Mr Ojala-Niemela, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for Mr Haavisto, Foreign Minister, in the case in question, has not acted in an illegal way within the meaning of Article 116 of the Constitution. The Constitutional Committee is 110 years old, the oldest committee in our Parliament. It contributes to our democracy, democracy, our constitution and the rule of law here in Finland. Each member of the Constitutional Committee shares the responsibility of maintaining its authority and independence. We, the members of the committee, act there as private persons, as representatives of the people, are not there for our parties. The preliminary constitutional review of the laws we have passed has proved to be effective in the course of history. The committee's work is more effective than the post-authorisation Constitutional Court. The main task of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to assess government proposals from a constitutional point of view, whether they are in accordance with the Constitution or whether they need to be changed. The committee will also assess the legislative proposals in the light of international human rights conventions and give opinions on this to other committees. We have now submitted a report on the question of ministerial responsibility, which, along with matters relating to Åland, Sámi and electoral matters, falls within the remit of the committee. Whether it is a matter of drawing up an opinion or a report, we should not take instructions or advice from outside the committee, not from party leaders, parliamentary groups or ministers. The committee shall not have a government—oppositional arrangement. There, together, we are conducting a judicial review, which should not be influenced by political passions. Each member of the committee must be at the sources of the same information when making his own decision. Mr President! We must all safeguard the authority of the Constitutional Committee. President Vehviläinen has acted in favour of this — thank you to him. He raised the issue of the involvement of the signatories to the ministerial responsibility issue. I have no reason to blame the work of my fellow Members, but I welcome the fact that we are considering this. It should be borne in mind that, according to the explanatory statement of the Minister's Liability Act, the members of the committee can sign reminders relating to ministerial responsibilities and can then take part in the legal proceedings in committee. So did it now, and it's legal. Over the decades, over time, there has certainly been a desire to be careful here, and the members of the committee have not often been among the signatories. I believe that the line of caution is still a good one, even in the coming times. President Niinistö is concerned about the proper and respectful atmosphere in the committee. The wish for a decent and respectful atmosphere is, of course, suitable for the work of our whole Parliament and our working community. We all share the responsibility for the prestige of the cornerstone of democracy. Mr President! The Constitutional Committee has now adopted a report on the subject of Minister Haavisto. It took a whole year and, although the question is legally difficult, it should be possible to deal with such matters more quickly in the future. The committee did not take a position on helping the children of Al-Hol, but on the legality of the minister's duties.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u100	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the reminder of the lawfulness of foreign minister Pekka Haavisto's service under Article 115 of the Constitution constitutes a well-founded and lasting legal entity. The committee has worked carefully on this matter, carefully weighing up the various legal arguments. The committee's report does not reflect the policy, which means that it is not involved in the legal report. However, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I do not think it is appropriate that, at the stage of the preparation of the report, it is clearly based on practices which differ from those of the committee. The question of ministerial responsibility was initiated by a reminder signed by ten MPs. In the reminder, the committee was asked to clarify the legality of Minister Haavisto's activities in the case of the repatriation of Finnish citizens in the Al-Holi camp or of persons who ended up in Finland. As has been pointed out several times in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the committee considers that the procedure of Foreign Minister Haavisto in the case of the transfer of consular officer Tum should be considered to be contrary to the administrative law and the Foreign Service Act and therefore to be reprehensible. However, in Article 116 of the Constitution, the increased pleaability requirement for raising a ministerial charge, i.e. wilfulness and gross negligence, is not met and the requirement for materiality of breach of the minister’s duties is not met. Therefore, there are no conditions for prosecution. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also assessed the other three points of the reminder, but the committee does not consider the ministerial procedure to be illegal. Mr President! The essential point is that the authority may exercise its powers only for legitimate purposes. The committee sees that Minister Haavisto has exercised some of his discretion, contrary to the principle of purpose-relatedity referred to in Article 6 of the Administrative Law, in ordering the management of civil servants in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to delegate consular officer Tuominen from his duties due to disagreement. The Committee also stresses that the actions of the authorities must be proportionate to the objective pursued. We are talking about the principle of proportionality. Minister Haavisto has not explained the possibility of using less restrictive means, but has continued to prepare for the transfer of Mr Tuom, even after the tasks that led to the disagreement had already been transferred from Tuoto to the ad hoc Special Representative for Al-Hol matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u103	Mr President! We are now discussing the matter of ministerial responsibility in relation to the activities of Minister Haavisto in relation to the rescue of the Finnish children of the al-Hol camp. The conclusion of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is that there are no conditions for prosecution in the national court. There have been no illegal acts which could lead to the prosecution of a minister. The action that led to the request for an inquiry started from the fact that the Foreign Minister was active in rescuing the Finnish children of the Al-Hol camp — children who were completely innocent of their situation, children who were not supposed to be in the war zone, children who needed urgent help. Whether the purpose sanctifies the means, many here have asked. It is clear that in this case the experts heard by the Constitutional Committee also saw that the right of children required the Minister to act. The Minister had a clear duty to seek to safeguard the interests and rights of Finnish children in the camp in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Constitution — both moral and legal. Several experts heard by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs felt that there were grounds for a pre-prepared transfer to other tasks which were specifically found in the protection of children's rights. Many of these experts believe that securing this policy has been a legitimate reason to prepare for the transfer. Professor Olli Mäenpää stated, among other things, that ‘The purpose of the transfer was to ensure the functioning and coherence of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, in order to ensure that the Ministry is sufficiently effective to carry out its He goes on to say that‘I believe that the purpose to be ‘Preparation for the second As Mr Ojanen, Professor of Constitutional Law, stated: ‘Finnish authorities have the rights of Finnish citizens by all legal means, particularly in the context of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. “ It is clear that without a link to the rescue of children from the camp this assessment of the Minister's activities cannot be carried out. The protests made by two members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have well highlighted the fact that, in line with the legitimate view of a clear majority of experts, it could also have been concluded that the foreign minister did not act unlawfully in the case of relocation — the legitimate view of a clear majority. Mr President! What the Committee on Constitutional Affairs agrees with is that the threshold for prosecution is not exceeded. Minister Haavisto has said that he will humbly receive the message from the Constitutional Committee and will correct his actions. I'm sure it's a good idea to take it from here. Mr President! Finally, I should like to correct a couple of arguments that have been made against the Green Parliamentary Group in this Chamber as well. Our group's representatives in the Constitutional Committee have not acted on this matter, as in any other matter in the Constitutional Committee, on behalf of the Party, but as independent members of the Committee, as is the case in the Constitutional Committee. Nor have I myself, as chairman of the parliamentary group, applied to any of our Members for support in this matter. I have not even been aware of the intentions of our Members to leave a different opinion, nor, therefore, its content. I have not raised the matter between the chairmen of the government groups, not orally or in writing at any time. Mr Rantanen has just presented these charges relating to rumours. I find it very strange in this Chamber, because no one has given evidence to this claim and no one has indicated that they have been the object of such influence. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is an independent, politically free cornerstone of the whole democratic system in Finland, and as such we must uphold it. Here I would also like to thank the President of Parliament, Anu Vehviläinen, for his work on preventing data leaks in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u104	Mr President! I am a member of the committee, and I have been involved in this process from about the beginning to the end, dealing with this question of ministerial responsibility in the Constitutional Committee. This has required extraordinary precision from the committee. I am also right behind the majority decision of the committee. This question of ministerial responsibility is the work of the year: 29 meetings, 65 hours of meetings, interested parties and 16 experts, police preliminary investigation protocols, thousands of pages. This issue is also of great importance for the transparency of democracy and the rule of law. These are the things I want to represent. The Constitutional Committee is not a court. As a member of the committee, it is not my job to assess the activities of the parties or the future of the minister, but the activities of the minister on the basis of facts and on the basis of the questions raised in the question of ministerial responsibility. These facts have been shared with us. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs gave Minister Haavisto some criticisms regarding the careful compliance with the Administrative Law and the Foreign Service Act, which must be taken very seriously. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs agrees that there are no conditions for prosecution. The question of ministerial responsibility is always about an increased threshold for prosecution. A clear majority of the committee has come to the joint report, which I consider to be very valuable, and it relies heavily on expert opinions. I see that the events of the last few days have undermined confidence in the functioning of the Constitutional Committee. I personally feel that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is capable of acting and has been able to deal with the question of Mr Haavisto's ministerial responsibility properly, with the exception of the leaks of the last few days. I cannot accept the leaks and I believe that they have also jeopardised the Minister's legal protection in some respects. I think it is serious that information has been leaked out of the Constitutional Committee and that an attempt has thus been made to influence its activities externally through the media. I have also taken a look at an alternative to the Constitutional Committee, namely the Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe, Germany. I don't think it's a better option. There the decisions come retrospectively and the constitutionality of the decisions is not known when things change. This delay can lead to significant violations of human rights, endangering the freedom to conduct a business or, for example, undermining children's rights. I think the Finnish system is better. I am prepared to defend the work of the Constitutional Committee. And then the report itself. In this Chamber, we have been given the impression from time to time that the report that has just been produced would be inadequate and that the majority of the committee would not have given sufficient consideration to children's rights. In fact, the report has also carefully assessed the whole from the point of view of the implementation of children's rights. It is extremely important to me that children's rights are realised in all situations, and I do not always draw back to their observance. I do not believe that the other members of the committee are prepared for this either. There is no going out of this house of a report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that violates the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The best interests of the child are paramount, and this Convention on Human Rights is extremely incriminating. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also had a great deal of debate on this. This report has taken account of the rights of the child, and there are also strong entries in the report. With regard to opinions, it should also be borne in mind, as the rapporteurs also emphasise in their opinions in a very respectful way, that they only have specific expertise in certain legal matters. The constitutional scholars state that they do not have criminal expertise, and vice versa. It is clear that experts in criminal law pay less attention to the rights of children, for example, than a legal scholar who at the heart of his activities is the legal issues relating to children's rights. That is why we have a Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in which I believe we are able to make a balanced overall assessment based on the expert opinions and facts we have received. Special expertise must be given enormous value. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs does not draw up its reports on the basis of a vote by experts; it always exercises independent discretion. Nor does the Committee on Constitutional Affairs assess the whole case, but only the role of the Minister with regard to the doubts expressed in this case. For example, the activities of civil servants are not part of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' assessment and are therefore not relevant in this debate. As far as the question of ministerial responsibility is concerned, the signatories of the question are legally entitled to take part in the proceedings themselves. I am not referring here to this case, but to the wider extent, when I say that I would see that a better solution would certainly be for us to differentiate between the authors of the question and the authors of the question in law. I would see that the lack of clarity of the question of ministerial responsibility should be further examined and the related standards clarified. And to the end: From my own experience, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is the most employable committee in this House. It is the foundation of Parliament and the rule of law. There we do not take instructions from our colleagues; we act through knowledge and our own sense of justice. Politics is not part of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u105	Mr President! Minister! In accordance with Article 115 of the Constitution, there is a reminder that the lawfulness of foreign minister Pekka Haavisto's service is being investigated. In its legal assessment, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that the procedure of Foreign Minister Haavisto in the case of a transfer of consular officer to Tum should be considered to be contrary to and therefore reprehensible to the Administrative and Foreign Service Act. In the Committee's view, the validity of the Haavisto procedure cannot be considered to be limited as a whole. However, in Article 116 of the Constitution, the increased pleaability requirement, wilfulness or gross negligence for raising a ministerial charge, or the requirement for materiality of breach of the minister’s duties, are not met. Therefore, there are no conditions for prosecution. Mr President! I agree with the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and its position.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u106	Mr President! In this case, it is about children's rights and saving them from life-threatening conditions in a prison camp. The Convention on the Rights of the Child obliges the Finnish State to do so, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Haavisto, sought to fulfil this obligation. A complaint concerning Finland has been registered with the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child regarding children in a prison camp. Fifteen children have been rescued to Finland from the camp’s war zone. Given the circumstances of the region, it is obvious that this is not a normal job. I would like, for my part, to thank all those involved in this challenging task. I hope that the authorities here in the country will be able to protect these children and guarantee them safe growth conditions in the future, and that they will be guaranteed sufficient work-life for them. Mr President! The normal working methods of the committees have been deliberately distorted in public. Draft opinions will be dealt with jointly and separately, with the aim of achieving the best possible result in legislation. Leaving a different opinion and an objection to the committee's report or opinion is a perfectly normal procedure, although the primary and common aim is to reach an agreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u111	Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has finally completed its deliberations on the reminder of ten MPs regarding the activities of Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto in Syria to release the Finns in al-Holi camp. It has been a long process and it is important for all parties that it is finally concluded. There has been a thorough examination of the content of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The conclusion of the report is that there are no conditions for prosecution in the national court. Thus, there has been no illegality on the basis of which a ministerial charge could be brought. However, the committee also concludes that the procedure for delegating Mr Haavisto's consular officer to other tasks must be regarded as reprehensible, and Mr Haavisto has also taken these criticisms seriously. The objection to the report points out that, in line with the legitimate view of a clear majority of experts, it would have been justified to conclude that the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not act unlawfully in the case of relocation either. That is what we are dealing with here. The Minister of Foreign Affairs' motivation for his activities in preparing for the transfer of an official was the obligation to safeguard the rights of the child and fundamental and human rights arising from Finnish legislation and international treaties. The Government’s policy to help children has been necessary to protect the lives of Finnish children. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has a legal duty to promote this. The majority of the experts consulted in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs felt that there was a functional need in this case and in the situation for a proper basis for the official's obligation to move. This point of view is based on statements by legal experts, which have been comprehensively summarised in the objections raised in the report. Mr President! Now we are making legal, not political judgment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that there are no grounds for prosecution. The committee considered the case and reached this conclusion. The Minister has an obligation to work actively to safeguard the interests and rights of Finns in the camp in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and Article 22 of the Constitution. The objective is therefore also based on law. That is exactly what this is all about. A majority of legal experts considered that the transfer of the consular officer was a proportionate act and had an acceptable basis. Mr President! Public debate has been held on the politicisation of the work of the Constitutional Committee. It's important that we have this conversation. I find it problematic that the reminders who have initiated the matter have been in committee to deal with the matter. As has been said here, it is legal. However, it is likely to raise doubts about the independence of the committee's work. [WilleRydman intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u114	Mr President! The steak in the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is clear and indisputable: there are no conditions for prosecution. In this respect, the committee is unanimous. However, the committee considers the action of the Foreign Minister to be reprehensible. In this respect, the objection is on the other lines. The objection has been criticised as political, but I recommend that we examine the objection itself and its arguments before striking this stamp. It is based on comprehensive legal arguments, as the Constitutional Committee should. It is also noteworthy that the majority of the experts consulted did not see the actual illegality of the Minister's activities. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is, of course, determined by the committee itself. It is unambiguously clear: the Constitutional Committee gave its criticisms to the Minister. It's a serious matter. In this respect, I believe that the Minister has replied quite properly that he will look into the report and take account of the criticisms in his future action. As a result of the criticisms of the opposition, distrust has been expressed to the Minister. It is a political issue, not a legal one, and the opposition position is not really a surprise here — before this process in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the opposition expressed virtually the same mistrust of the Minister. Indeed, the whole legal process appears to many as a politically motivated continuation of political action, which is not particularly honorable for the institution of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u120	Mr President, as you have noticed in the debate, the issues dealt with by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can also be challenging, and I wish you every success in moving on to your new task. This discussion, however, strengthens the August News of the Yleisradio, according to which the worship of Haavisto in greens already has divine features. It is essential, however, that the Constitutional Committee came to the conclusion that Minister Haavisto has acted unlawfully as required by the Administrative Law and the Foreign Service Act. The ministerial procedure has therefore been considered to be reprehensible by the committee. That's why I'm in favour of a representative. The motion of censure tabled by Mr Tynkkyse. From the point of view of national law, it is necessary to ask the Minister a question, and I appreciate the fact that the minister is here to answer it — your answer is important. Minister Haavisto, answer the question: did Secretary of State Anttonen, Undersecretary of State Puustinen and possibly other leading officials try to persuade you to give up the decision to transfer the consular officer, and did they tell you that there were legal problems with the decision, particularly when the Special Envoy was appointed to handle Al-Hol's affairs? Minister Haavisto, answer ‘yes or no’, and if you wish to justify your reply,the department will listen to you with an accurate ear. If
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u123	Mr President! The long and thorough process of the Constitutional Committee has been completed. There is no doubt that the process has been long and demanding for both the members of the committee and the minister himself. The committee's conclusion is that there are no conditions for prosecution in the national court. There has been no illegality on the basis of which a ministerial charge could be brought. However, according to the committee's conclusions, the procedure of Foreign Minister Haavisto for delegating the consular officer to other tasks must be regarded as reprehensible. The objection to the report points out that, in line with the clear majority of experts' views, it should have been stated that the Foreign Minister did not commit an illegal act in the case of relocation. It is quite clear that we respect the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and Mr Haavisto himself has never underestimated the outcome of the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. On the contrary, he has said that he takes the content of the committee's report seriously. We Greens have been repeatedly criticised here for raising the children of the Syrian al-Hol camp, as if they were not part of this debate that we are having here today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u131	All right, let's focus this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u132	Mr President! I would also like at this stage to thank Minister Haavisto for your presence. I'm sure this day isn't easy for you. In February this year, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said that the threshold for preliminary investigations would be exceeded. At the end of the preliminary investigation that took place in July, the police concluded that there was reason to suspect the Foreign Minister of an official offence. At the end of a long and thorough reflection, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has now stated that the Minister has acted unlawfully. However, according to the committee, the threshold for arraignment in the matter of ministerial responsibility will not be exceeded, as ministers will be subject to an increased threshold for prosecution. It has been up to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to consider the matter from a purely legal point of view. Now is the time to think about it from a political point of view. Mr President! As a starting point, I believe that the minister's role in Finland can be carried out by a person known as an honest person. It has now been established that the Minister has acted in violation of both the Administrative Act and the Foreign Service Act. It can therefore be stated in a single position that the Minister no longer fulfils the ‘true person’ clause in the ministerial claim. It is quite clear that even if the threshold for prosecution is not exceeded, the Minister has acted contrary to the letter of the law, and I must therefore consider that the Minister cannot enjoy the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u135	Mr President! It has often been said here that the purpose does not justify means, and so it is. However, it has to be said that the intention here was not quite as good as it was supposed to be, so yes, it was meant to bring adult people to Finland, along with these children, at least — adults who have reason to suspect that they were involved in a terrorist organisation. These adults have been successfully brought into the country, and now in this Chamber they are hypocritical about bringing children into the country. [Eva Biaudet’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u140	Mr President! I must say at the outset that I do not think Mr Mäkelä's speech was quite appropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u145	I now give Mr Haavisto, who has to leave because of his duties, the floor, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u146	Mr President! Thank you. I have been proud this year that I have not failed to carry out any duties on account of this debate on the Constitutional Committee, and I have to say the same today. There is an international guest in Finland who I host, but I promise to read all the speeches that have been made since then and all the lunches and instructions they have, very carefully and to go through them again. I would like to thank Parliament at this stage for a good debate and a representative. Salmon for an excellent speech. Maybe there's one more thing I could be more specific about. Here, among other things, Mr Junnila, as it were, still opened up this fact and, after many consultations with the hearings and the committee, wanted more information on these matters. I understand that they are all those things that can be found in the minutes of the police investigation and so on, so that I do not go here and repeat them separately. In fact, in connection with the committee's report, I submitted a final opinion three times because the committee still wanted to consult experts and then and then experts. These three final opinions are very broad in this respect. When we have talked about the process here, perhaps my only wish in future committees of this kind is that, when a final opinion is requested, the committee would have already made the decision that no more experts should be consulted — unless the final opinion gives a very dramatic cause for it — because it is very hard, it is not written entirely alone, and it needs legal assistance and so on. I was thinking at the time when the third final statement was being made, that this is the end of the final statement. I would also like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for its proper work. The times that I have been there for the hearing have gone very well, the questions have been proper and the discussion has been proper. In other words, my own image of the work of the Constitutional Committee is that, but there is nothing to blame for. And I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee for the fact that the minister has always been offered the opportunity to be heard at the right stages and to make his own point of view and to ensure that sufficient time is provided for that to be done. That there is nothing to blame on my side in this regard. Thank you. And I'm sorry to have to leave the office. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u147	Mr President! A year ago, when I and some other MPs were launching the Haavisto investigation, the feedback was not entirely enthusiastic. One felt that there was not enough blame for the activities of the Foreign Minister, while others felt that a member of the Constitutional Committee should not have been in the process of initiating an investigation into which to participate himself. This argument has been made in this Chamber several times today. This argument goes against our laws and fundamental constitutional decisions, not only absurd but also absurd. It interprets accessibility rules in some way that is completely foreign to Finnish legislation. Our Constitution even allows the Constitutional Committee itself, as a collective committee, to launch a process of ministerial responsibility. Should the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as a collective body, then address the ministerial responsibility process which it has initiated itself? It is also possible to start the process with a reminder from ten Members of Parliament, for example. Furthermore, the explanatory memorandum to the law on ministerial liability expressly states that participation in the initiation of the process does not constitute a necessitation to participate in the investigation itself. And how on earth could a freeze arise from the fact that it is necessary to take the matter on board? Yet this misconception has been repeated in this Chamber today as much as possible. It is, listen, ladies and gentlemen, quite irresponsible. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is neither a prosecutor nor a judge in matters of ministerial responsibility. This also applies to all participants in the process. They do not act as prosecutors or judges. The Constitutional Committee is just looking into it. The higher the podiums are, the more reprehensible the claims and hints about other things. Furthermore, the reminder by the representatives of the Parliament, which initiates the matter of ministerial responsibility, is not an application for a challenge, but a parliamentary act. In the constitutional sense, it does not contain any more ice than the representatives of the government parties in the Constitutional Committee when they deal with the government's proposals. So there is no ice, the claim of anything else is a question of the infrastructure of our entire constitution. Well, to the point. This matter took almost a year to deal with in the Constitutional Committee. In February, the committee found that the threshold for preliminary investigations was exceeded in certain respects and asked the Prosecutor General to submit a preliminary investigation. This preliminary investigation lasted until July. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not prolong it, but it was a very complicated matter, and the police concluded that there was reason to suspect that the Foreign Minister had committed an official crime. This case has been very challenging in legal terms. This is illustrated, among other things, by the long duration of the investigation, the preparatory investigation material over 1300 pages and the considerable differences in legal assessment of the case by experts consulted by the Constitutional Committee. They have been quoted here rather selectively, but I was thinking of quoting from both angles, so that the listeners have sufficient understanding of what is at stake. Some experts were of the opinion that: The Haavisto had acted in a way that was entirely in line with its duty of office — something that has often been referred to here. On the other hand, Prime Minister Jaakko Jonkka, who represented the strictest line, considered that Haavisto had violated his duties in such a serious way that the higher arraignment threshold for ministerial responsibility was also exceeded. Thus, according to Jonka’s assessment, it would have been possible to go even to the national court. Well, the Constitutional Committee must carefully assess the arguments of the various experts when it comes to forming its position on this mixed line in many ways. It is not an auction, it is an argument in one direction and another and it is an assessment of which argument weighs the most. Finally, the committee came to the conclusion that: The Haavisto has acted in breach of the administrative and foreign law and that, if it were an ordinary official, the charge threshold would be exceeded — it is different whether or not the charge would be brought against or convicted, but the charge threshold would be exceeded. This may, of course, raise the question as to why the Minister has a higher level of arraignment in his duties than the ordinary official. The reason for this is exactly the same as why MPs have difficult immunity to break due to their statements in the parliament, which emerged in the Mäenpää case earlier this year. The constitutional legislator has rightly considered that the functioning of democracy would be hampered if it were too easy to make politics through the courts. There is no doubt that Mr Haavisto and Mr Mäenpää are subjected to different types of sympathy or anti-patialism by different voters and politicians, but political sympathy and anti-patialism must not affect legal judgement when it is time. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Haavisto issue is not unanimous. The two members of the committee representing the Greens objected to it and have the right to do so. The legal reasoning of the objection is, in my view, unsustainable. It is based on the thinking which has been expressed in this Chamber, this debate has often been very clearly present, where international law obligations towards the children of the Al-Holi camp would in some way justify or at least reduce the reprehensibility of Haavisto's actions in violation of the Administrative Law and the Foreign Service Act. As far as I can see, thinking,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u148	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Finnish people! There have been some criticisms of the Greens here, but I would like to begin by saying where I think the Greens have not done wrong. First of all, I think it is honourable that Mr Haavisto followed the debate and took part as long as he had the opportunity to do so. It is not wrong that Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, for example, tried to influence the committee's report and did so by e-mailing his own proposals to correct it. On the contrary, you can say that when they are sent in advance, the members of the committee will have the opportunity to familiarise themselves with them in advance, and it will help to deal with the matter. Secondly, the unanimity of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the pursuit of it are positive, and it strengthens the legitimacy of the committee. But there is nothing unusual and there is nothing forbidden about voting between the Constitutional Committee and, for example, the Greens having objected in this matter. Legally speaking, there is a difference of opinion in its interpretation — look at the court: the district court condemns, the court of justice frees, and so on. In other words, I do not believe that the objection itself, and particularly in this case, is wrong. It is, of course, a different matter that, when it is said here that the study was being carried out by the Green Minister, and when the Green Group has just submitted an objection to this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which brought all the other Communists together — Mr Kontula has said that he is a Communist — to the Finns of Finland, the question arises of course as to whether the Greens have looked through party-political spectacles. A bit of the same feeling arose when, as a young man, I was chairman of the Constitutional Committee and dealt with Väyrysen Vladimirov and the whole committee was unanimous, except for the three representatives from the centre who objected. I think that Mr Holopainen here was right when he stressed it, so I realised that, of course, the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the interpretation of the Constitution or, in a matter of this kind, the values, values and world views of the members of the committee have an impact on this. I think it is human and perfectly natural. It is just as natural that this also applies to experts consulted by the committee, but neither the media nor the general public understand this — I hope that the Members of Parliament will understand that they have not grown in any barrel either. So where have the Greens done the wrong thing about this? First of all, with this little intention of sanctifying the means, they have, in my opinion, done wrong by emphasising Article 22 of the Constitution. ), which states that ‘public authority must ensure the implementation of fundamental and human rights’. However,in this context,it is likely thatthe central rule of law is based It says:‘The use of All public activities are governed by the law This is a fundamental criterion of the rule of law, and I understand that the Greens, in all other contexts and in other countries, are demanding strict respect for the rule of law. [Eva Biaudet intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u153	Mr President, ärade talman! However, defending the role of the Constitutional Committee does not, in my view, mean that this legal assessment cannot be discussed. I certainly hope that the legal scholars will have a debate on these, because many here have said that it has been difficult to judge when they disagreed. However, it is clear to everyone, at least almost everyone, that we agree with the conclusion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that, within the meaning of Article 116 of the Constitution, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not acted contrary to the Constitution. However, I find it difficult to understand why the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs came to a different conclusion than the majority of experts who did not find illegality in the activities of the Foreign Minister. The majority of experts expressly considered that the Foreign Minister had not acted contrary to his duties in the matter or otherwise unlawfully acted in the case of Al-Hol. In my opinion, it is absolutely essential to assess, as the majority of experts thought, that this activity is governed by a whole set of standards — not just a single law — which, in addition to the provisions of ordinary law, is made up of Article 22 of the Constitution. but alsothe UN Convention on the Rights of The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has consulted the experts on constitutional law twice. Neither did any of them, following the expert opinion of former Attorney General Jaakko Jonka, change their position. They were still in agreement, and they were quite clear, these experts who interpreted administrative matters in particular. In particular, the purpose of planning the transfer was to ensure the functioning and the course of action of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and this was chosen to enable the Minister to carry out the activities which he was required to take under the law and human rights obligations, that is to say to enable him to do what he had a duty to do. The protection of the rights and interests of Finnish children imprisoned in the al-Holi camp was an obligation and must be pursued actively under the law. The law must be respected, human rights agreements must also be respected, and this active authority is important to take into account. If you think about the fact that the consular officer refused to deal with these matters for three months, I do not think it is possible to say that this was insignificant. And the difference of opinion referred to in the committee's report is not, in my opinion, a general difference of opinion; it was precisely as a result of the difference of opinion that there was a refusal to carry out the tasks. And as the Parliamentary Ombudsman Jääskeläinen says, the effect of this difference of opinion was precisely a refusal to implement the policy adopted by the government. I also find it difficult to understand how to interpret the fact that the issue of Al-Hol's mandate was small compared to his other tasks. Of course, if I were to compare the number of visas, this would certainly have been the biggest task of his life in terms of content. Perhaps I do not understand these matters well enough, but I think it is good to have a debate on them. In the assessment of children's rights and interests, Mr Ojanen said that the Foreign Minister had a direct obligation to take action. And it is easy to understand afterwards that the safety of these children was not taken care of in two weeks and perhaps still not entirely. The three months’ refusal by the Consul Chief has had a significant impact on the situation of children. The situation in the camps has been extremely difficult: disease, food shortages and the threat of security has been a constant one. In the case of children, time travel is particularly important. It is not the same as three months here for us parliamentarians. And when you look back on the debate in Parliament almost a year and a half ago, you cannot help but be afraid of what the Members of Parliament who reminded you actually wanted. Did they want to express their disagreement specifically with the government's duty to actively seek to safeguard the rights of the children of Al-Hol? It is true that this disagreement today is not political but rather political, because the Constitution and international human rights obligations are unambiguous about the binding nature of this obligation even in difficult situations. I believe that the seriousness of the constitutional obligations and human rights obligations, as expressed by a majority of committee experts, could have gained greater importance in the legal assessment of the committee. Even former Attorney General Jonkka points out that he has not looked at the issue from a human rights point of view, and I think that is something that could be discussed, that what its significance has been. Of course, the expert can look at the matter in a limited way, as confusing as it sounds, but perhaps the committee should look at it through all the legal standards, including the standard of fundamental and human rights. Certainly the majority believe that this has been the case, but I do not think it is enough. I believe that the Foreign Minister has been a very good Foreign Minister and has done his job well and I have full confidence in him. In that sense, I would like to agree with the wise words of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is better to get reproached for helping too much than for helping too little.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u155	Mr. Speaker! Politically, this al-Hol-koo is about the government's foreign minister Pekka Haavisto trying to bring potential war crimes women to Finland through consular transport and/or actively to help these terrorists, i.e. those belonging to a terrorist organisation, return to Finland. This was done on the basis of children born to them in the ranks of the Isis terrorist organisation, who are Finnish citizens. Or perhaps women have even taken their children from Finland with them to the terrorist organization. Equally, all these women have committed the greatest human crime against their children in their efforts to raise and train children as members of an Islamic terrorist organisation, to fight against the West. Of course, we do not know exactly what the current situation is for children, but from this point of view, of course, we only hope that the Finnish system will succeed in saving children from brainwashing. Women's backgrounds and commitments to Isis have been dealt with quite a lot in the press. The Finns Party disagreed with the government about aiding the return of terrorists because they themselves have chosen their paths and do not deserve the help of our state, and in addition, the return of terrorists poses a security risk to Finland. The return of children alone would not be an obstacle in itself, but since it has not been considered possible to arrange it, children cannot be a free-of-prison card for those who commit serious terrorist crimes. I do not know whether the return of Al-Hol's children's guardians would have been more sceptical in the government's ranks if they had been male terrorists. The Greens, as a party, have become strongly involved in a policy which is always seeking justification based on, and appealing to, a pseudo-legal argument for their own actions through higher concepts, such as the use of general human rights or children's rights. "Don't you want to help terrorists back in Finland—enlargement rights? "decreases the In general, a lofty purpose justifies the means, as long as it is only the pursuit of green political power, as is the case when an airplane is prevented by breaking the law from returning a foreign rapist who is being expelled from the country. Under children's rights, terrorists were not convicted in prison camps in accordance with international law in the country of crime and in the legal court to which Al-Hol terrorists were to be brought. With the same logic, the Greens could suggest, for example, that children’s parents would no longer go to prison in Finland for any crime, because it is in the best interests of children that criminals are allowed to care for children at home. It can be a traumatic experience for a child when a parent goes to prison. So the green solution is probably to abolish the entire prison system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u160	Mr President! I have listened to this debate here today in my room, and I would like to express my thanks to Parliament for the very interesting debate that has taken place here and opening up this difficult issue from different angles. Of course, we are faced with an exceptionally big issue when we consider the activities of the Foreign Minister and, above all, the extent to which the lawfulness of the duties has been or has not been carried out. First of all, I would like to point out that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in its interpretation, is, of course, very clear on the legal basis, but this debate here has opened up more of these, or very many speeches have opened up, political angles. Mr Tavio's speech here just told us and went on to analyse this situation because, in fact, the Minister has had — or at least there has been a great risk — a basic motive here for bringing terrorists to Finland, or, as has been corrected, for bringing people belonging to terrorist organisations to Finland. When we go into such interpretations, then we will be a little like in sensitive waters when we know that the Minister's basic motive was in that exceptionally difficult situation as to how safe return to Finland could in some way be possible for children, Finnish children, who are there, to enter a chaotic state in northern Syria. This must have been very clearly the big motive behind it: children's rights, their realisation — and, above all, the right of Finnish children is at stake, in fact even the right to life. If this is translated into a terrorism issue, as it were, then we are in very serious difficulties, and this obviously distorts this way of understanding. In some ways we must now recognise that the Minister has very clearly wanted to express his will in his actions. This has also been seen in these debates today, and he has also been determined to give political guidance in this regard to the work being done under him in the Foreign Office, and it is the right and duty of the Minister to act in that sense in a way of political action. As a minister, he is politically responsible to this Parliament, but naturally, as has been said in many speeches, he cannot act illegally. Now that this process, which is now technically familiar to all of you, has had to be carried out, the majority of experts — and it is worth underlining here that the majority of experts, when the legal experts look at this situation, say that the Minister has not acted unlawfully. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs wanted to identify acts contrary to the Administrative Law and acts contrary to the Foreign Service Act, which is an absolute violation, and it has already had to be identified in many mouths, and the Constitutional Committee recognizes it, but this does not go beyond the threshold of prosecution that relates to the Minister's own position on the basis of the Ministerial Liability Act. I guess this is the biggest thing I've ever seen. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has come to this solution and I think that this is a big issue that we must all recognise now, since we, however, have given this role to the Constitutional Committee, that it is the last one to interpret the Constitution when we do not have a body like the Constitutional Court, as in other countries of the world. This is probably the starting point we are dealing with here, and in that sense the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is the end of this debate. We in this plenary will, of course, bless it, but we cannot naturally have room for manoeuvre here, because we have given this key role to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, I would like to recognise to some extent the legitimacy of the Foreign Minister's approach from that point of view — although he has said to us several times today that he listens carefully to what has been said here, and that he is learning, and that he has also said when it has been said here that the Minister has not admitted that he has made a mistake — that I too think it is better for us ministers to act and be active when we face difficult challenges. When it comes to this non-culture, we will also be in a situation of ‘better risk than this,and then we will be in a situation where we will be in a very In that respect, I recognise the importance of having a political leadership in the ministries and the ministers are using it as their political leadership in those ministries. Of course, there are friction points, and I too have to recognize that now when you look at the situation in the world and in Finland, where the official machinery often wants to take over and the minister wants to be second in that process. It takes a good grip to get the whole team to play in the same direction they want. This is, of course, a challenge in this situation, and certainly also in the background when we consider the culture and working methods of political leadership — which the Minister represents — and the working methods of the official machinery. But definitely Finland must be a country that not only is reactive but is active and takes up the challenges, and I think that Minister Haavisto has acted properly in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u161	Mr President! Colleagues! In my own speech, I would first like to thank and deeply bow down to Johanna Ojala-Niemela because the day before yesterday I learned that she has been diagnosed with a tumor in the brain, and throughout this whole period, when she has known about it for a few months, she has kept it in her heart and has done her own work properly. — Thank you, Johanna. At the same time, I would also like to thank Mr Haavisto for not leaving any post during the course of this year's debate, but for trying to carry out the functions of the Foreign Minister as authoritative and exemplary as this country deserves. I've been in a camp like Al-Hol since I was a kid. I lived there in the same geographical part of the tent from 7 to 10 years old, and these three years when I was a child, it was largely a prison camp, like Al-Hol, where there were murders. Members of the Iraqi Ba'ath Party were able to take weapons there. The people who were killed were always buried in tents and covered up. There was no police, no understanding of security or justice. When the yellow storm hit the desert, only the tents fell. With the red storm, the tents flew. If the tent was not properly closed and it flew, it was usually accompanied by children and goods. And often, when those tents were found miles away somewhere in the middle of the dunes, those children, those babies were dead in those tents. When it rained, it rained. When the crickets flew, they always came to tents and were part of life. At some point in life were mice and rats, sometimes some other animals. I went to caravan school in the desert, and often I knew where it was worth walking. Knowing that the scorpions lived in certain areas closer to some rocks or other, the young boy learned quite a bit about the desert, which is very lively, although it does not always seem so. Horrible conditions I wouldn't have for any child. I was there at camp by my own parents' decision, in a way. They fled Saddam Hussein's reign of terror there, and they were not allowed to go inland, we waited for the UN's mercy then. Fortunately, in the early 1990s, Pertti Paasio was a foreign minister, and it was decided to take us away with the Finnish quota. Today I am a Member of Parliament and I am very pleased about that. I would have liked to have had a foreign minister in my country of origin who turned all the stones around and did his best to save the children. In that sense, I understand the motive of Minister Haavisto to try to get these Finnish children out of there, except for the mistakes of his parents and without taking them into account. At the same time, I wonder: this question of al-Hol camp, the whole question, is not new in the sense that this government received it from the previous government. There is therefore now also a complaint against this, and this issue is being discussed. It is interesting to know why it was not done when these children were first known and, if so, why they were so little delivered that they were not rescued there, and why there are still about 15 Finnish children who have not been rescued there. You just heard how I felt when I was a kid. These are interesting things that I think it is good to think about in this Chamber as well. And then again to this interesting decision of the Constitutional Committee. After reading it, I did not see that the Constitutional Committee had said that any criminal had happened. It said that:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u166	Mr President! The reason why this purpose of action, namely to help children in life-threatening conditions, has been raised is from the objections to the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and from the expert opinions to which the objection is based. I am trying to put it very simply: it is not a question of a noble purpose justifying a violation of the law, but that the purpose of that action is an essential factor in assessing the proportionality of the action, its legal necessity and hence the legality of its action. Mr Jonkka, the Chancellor of Emeritus, who has been heard in this process by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — and this is also strongly based on his views in his report — is telling us himself that in his examination he has completely ignored this aspect of human rights, and another expert, Professor Ojanen, who has been heard by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has been disconcerting. Ojanen has stressed that the binding influence of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to actively seek to help Finnish citizens at the Al-Holi camp is particularly strongly directed at state institutions that are competent to represent Finland in international relations and in the implementation of contractual obligations within the state. To weigh the content of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and to express and express the various views of experts is not to undermine the authority of the committee or to call into question the opinions of the committee. It is, in fact, an indication of the strength of our system that such a debate can take place. Mr President! I would like briefly to correct the arguments made here in this Chamber about the activities of Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto. It is perfectly normal for members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, when seeking unanimity, to hold mutual discussions and submit amendments to the report. As the chairman of the committee has said, during the working phase of the draft, many members of the committee had different proposals on the content and the chairman had also asked Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto to send an e-mail containing these amendments to himself in order to copy it to all members. I am in the impression that Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto has sent these amendments to committee members who, after this long process and discussion, have been evaluated by him, after this year's long process and on the basis of discussions, are on the same track and, as it were, sought common formulations for them. The distribution of proposed amendments did not comply with the Government-Opposition limit, as has been wrongly claimed, so I hope that we will not have to go back to this issue any further.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 6.30 p.m. and we are currently discussing a matter relating to the legal investigation of Minister Haavisto's services, so that I ask you to focus on this matter in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u168	Mr President! The debate has indeed been a long one, and I would like to make a few comments. This matter of ministerial responsibility was discussed for a long time and with care. Yes, we had 29 meetings and 65 hours. I can say that the events of the last 24 hours before the decision, and the leaks, do not do justice to the hard work done by the committee and to the careful handling of the matter. This was a difficult matter in law, and this is explained by the fact that the estimates of experts with legal background were also very widely broken down. The Constitutional Committee does not count the number of experts, how many are for or against, but also the weight of the arguments in the expert opinions is given.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u177	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u178	Mr President! I support Mr Ojala-Niemela's proposal that Parliament should decide not to prosecute Mr Haavisto. Thank you to all the members of the Constitutional Committee for their cooperation. Thank you to the committee advisers for their professional work and assistance. Thank you, Mr Ojala-Niemelä, for the good leadership of the committee. Let us jointly assume responsibility for the authority of our committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u179	Mr President! The two previous speeches were very good, and I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs very much in this House for his excellent work. The work has certainly not been easy on any level in the past year, but you have done very well. At the same time, I would also like to thank the rest of the committee, Members, for its work, and at the same time I would also like to support this motion by Mr Ojala-Niemela — Mr Haavisto, Minister for Foreign Affairs, in the case in question, has not acted in an illegal way within the meaning of Article 116 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u180	Mr President! The main task of the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee is to assess the constitutionality of draft laws in consultation with experts. These topics may relate to fundamental human rights, jurisdictional relations, the exercise of public authority or the organisation of administration. This will ensure that the fundamental pillars of our democratic society remain intact despite changes in political power relations. At the same time, the Constitutional Committee will interpret the Constitution and its reports and opinions will create a constitutional line of interpretation for the contrary. This, in turn, creates legal certainty and confidence in our democratic social order. It is therefore particularly important that the authority and the ability of the Constitutional Committee be kept under constant control, under all circumstances. So to speak, political operations do not fit into the Constitutional Committee at all. In order to maintain the authority and position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in our democratic system, it is necessary for those who work there to take on certain fundamentals. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is highlighted as a non-political committee with no government-opposition limits typical of other committees. A member of the Constitutional Committee cannot take instructions from anyone: not from the chairman of his party, not from his own parliamentary group or from the minister responsible for the matter under consideration. So, no one. Although each member of the Constitutional Committee has its own political values, matters must not be dealt with according to its own political perspective or put forward objections for political reasons. The work is highlighted as a legal assessment. Any political blunder at the expense of the authority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will at worst lead to the Constitutional Committee losing its rights and, if it does, everything goes in our democracy. It has sometimes been discussed that the Constitutional Committee of Parliament could be replaced by the Constitutional Court. It would not be a light change to any extent. The work of the Constitutional Committee is an ex-ante review of legislative and non-legislative proposals when, in the case of the Constitutional Court, it would be at best years later, if at all. Parliament’s Constitutional Committee has been operating for over a hundred years. It is not the smallest factor in Finland's success story as regards well-being, the unity of the people and the fundamental rights of people, whether they are freedom rights or the protection of property. Mr President! Now, more than one speaker has given the impression that the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is incomplete and that the majority of the committee has not taken account of the rights of children. In fact, the report has also carefully assessed the whole from the point of view of the implementation of children's rights. With regard to opinions, it should also be borne in mind that, as the authors also admit in their opinions, they only have specific expertise in certain legal matters. The constitutional scholars state that they do not have criminal expertise and vice versa. Mr President! The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the report is quite clear: ‘The committee considers that, although the Foreign Minister’s Haavisto procedure is the subject of a reminder, must be considered to be contrary to the Administrative Law and the Foreign Service Act and therefore to be reprehensible, and not the increased pleaability requirement for the prosecution of a ministerial charge laid down in Article 116 of the Constitution;
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u181	Mr President! As I see it, there has been an average increase in the level of intervention towards the end of this debate, and I do not refer to the speeches made by Mr Kettunen and Mr Ojala-Niemelä. The proposal by Mr Ojala-Niemelä corresponds to the end of the Constitutional Committee. For those who may have been confused about this, it should be pointed out that although the Constitutional Committee itself stated that Minister Haavisto has acted unlawfully, what Mr Ojala-Niemelä said was precisely that he has not acted in such a way as to constitute an illegal act, which would be a prerequisite for the prosecution of ministers under Article 116 of the Constitution. We all have a big responsibility to maintain the authority of the Constitutional Committee. There has been a wide range of and multi-level discussions both in the public domain and in the last few days. I have not been on e-mail lists or WhatsApp messages that have been referred to in different-looking conversations. If some of the members of the Constitutional Committee have been subjected to some pressure in terms of the end results, it is of course a serious matter, and I hope that those who have been involved will reflect deeply on it and reflect on the role of the Constitutional Committee in our society, for example, in line with what Mr Kettunen has just described. But even if this has happened, as has been claimed, it must be seen, however, that the Constitutional Committee is apparently not affected by such attempts to exert pressure. It should be said that the committee's report does not go through any government-opposition front, but, in fact, with the exception of two protesters, the committee, 15 out of 17, was behind this report. That is a pretty good signal that our system is working very well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u182	Mr President! Now that the Greens in this Chamber are continuing to do a kind of whitewashing on this issue or should I say greenwashing, including Mrs Hyrkko in her speech, I would like to make a very direct comment on the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which I have not been dealing with in any way. My basic point is that, contrary to what the Greens are suggesting — in the social media, a terrible uproar and in this Chamber, in all proper speeches — it has not been a question of whether Mr Haavisto was allowed to take steps to release these children and adults in the al-Holi camp. And in order to demonstrate this, I will now read directly on page 23 of the report of the Constitutional Committee: ‘From the point of view of the Constitutional Committee, Minister Haavisto’s efforts to transferconsultituency managers to other tasks may mainly be assessed at the start of the process to assess the However, Minister Haavisto appears to have exercised his discretion contrary to the provisions of Article 6 of the Administrative Law...‘...’. “ I do not know whether the Greens disagree with this, but that is what the committee's report says. And then the second paragraph: ‘The transfer order...’ —for the transfer of a civil servant to new posts —...has been held in your power without any concern that on 22 October 2019the Minister has appointed anal-Hol Ahavistoenabled a referral order,even if it had not been expected that theconsul manager would have,after the Have you, the Greens, disagreed with this description of events in Pevi? That is what this is all about. So it is not an attempt to bring children and women to Finland from the camp in Al-Hol, but it is a question of the fact that, even after this Al-Hol matter had been removed from the disputing official and had been appointed as a special representative, even after what might have been the motive, Minister Haavisto has tried to delegate this official, who had disagreed with him, to different tasks. This is what it's all about. Why do you, the Greens, in the social media and in this Chamber spin this whole thing over and over again? Well, in fact, what do you want to ask, of course you want a whitewash or a greenwash on this matter. And this is what you spread — oh, here was not allowed to look — in that social media that nothing wrong or illegal has happened, the action to help children has been appropriate, and you refer to experts. Well, there are, of course, schools in law, and that line of politics and law — politics now understood far more widely than day politics or party politics — is not as clear as it may be thought. There are schools like this, there are differences of opinion. There are people on the committee who, when they say fundamental and human rights, everything else is less important. And such people are also present with the experts of the Constitutional Committee, and that is only natural. And these experts, for example, have been eager to sign such a petition for 2015, which called Finland’s foreign policy a dead end. My point is, those experts haven't grown from Mars or a barrel. They have their own values, they represent a particular thought, a school, and that's natural. Just as I remember Mrs Holopainen said here. This applies to the members of the committee and concerns the experts of the committee. As far as the Alanko-Kahiluoto procedure is concerned, Mr Hyrkko tried to give a good explanation. If this is the case, that it did not collect a government front to crush the views of representatives of other parties, then Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto could tell whom he sent his own proposals. And, as I said in my previous speech, I do not think there is any problem with making written amendments, for example, in advance to the draft reports by the committee, on the contrary, that is a good thing. Who did he send to? Why did there not have any members of the opposition in that host? Well, Congressman Hyrkko gave us his own explanation. Everyone can think about how credible it is. I think it is quite clear that this was meant to gather the government front, to appeal to this sort of solidarity between the government parties, and by this majority then to crush the views of the members of the committee who disagree. Congressman Alanko-Kahiluoto has felt it terrible that his message leaked to the public. I welcome the fact that such a completely inappropriate procedure, which is certainly not part of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was revealed and I welcome it. As regards the procedure of the group president Pitko, he could make public his WhatsApp message sent to the chairmen of the government groups. The strong suspicion is that it also sought to put together a government front on this Pekka Haavisto issue. I say that if Minister Haavisto had acknowledged the legitimacy, legitimacy, regretted or apologized for his illegal activities, or regretted it, then the alternative truth would have stopped spreading that this would have been about saving children and would have been committed to respecting the principle of legality and good governance in the future, then I could have been in our own parliamentary group when tomorrow we were discussing this motion of censure, I could have even pointed out that we were not voting for mistrust. But nothing like this, as I described earlier, has been done by Minister Haavisto since the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u183	Mr President! I would also like to thank you for the many contributions that have been made today. It has been pointed out that experts stressed different perspectives and interpretations of the law, and this was the case. In his speech, Mr Kontula pointed out that this report and the objections raised were not really very far apart, and he also pointed out that both interpretations were possible, according to him. The same kind of speech was also heard, and several Members also wondered why the views of so many experts had been left less important in this final report, although in many respects it was also worthy of them. But in any case, it is clear that there was also greater support and understanding for this line of interpretation of the objection in this Chamber, and many expressed it directly here. Indeed, it is not unusual for a vote to be voted on at times, as many have pointed out, and I would like to thank all the representatives who have defended the authority of the Constitutional Committee and the importance of ensuring that these views are ultimately covered in a balanced and fair way. I can assure you that I myself am in favour of us in the Constitutional Committee dealing with matters in a balanced and fair way in the future. That is what we have all tried to achieve in this debate, regardless of whether it is an easy position for us, and that is something we will certainly continue to strive for. Perhaps the history books will eventually tell us what interpretation lines should have been raised there and what may not have been raised. But, as has been said, both aspects were justified by the many speakers, not so far apart from this report and the objection, and I thank you for those contributions in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u184	Mr President! Indeed, the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is not such as to sum up how many experts have said what, but it is an overall assessment, which weighs different aspects and then mirrors questions and arguments about the previous practice of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which will eventually form the line of interpretation of our Constitution. And, of course, when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs adopts its position, it is above all a matter of some legal consistency. What the Constitutional Committee says must be in line not only with itself but also with the previous legal practice of the Constitutional Committee. In this work, I believe in particular that the chairman of the committee, Mrs Ojala-Niemela, has done a very good job. I have no doubt at all that the situation has certainly been pressurised in a number of ways, but not least because we have recently learned that he has also been aware of a serious illness during the autumn, and yet, in the midst of all this, he has been able to carry out his duties as chairman of the committee in a very admirable way. At the end of the debate, I would like to thank him in particular, to wish him a successful cut and a good improvement, and I also hope that you will be able to return as soon as possible to the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — which is not to be interpreted as an act of mistrust to the expected future chairman of the committee, with whom cooperation will certainly be as good as it has been during Mr Ojala-Niemelä's time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u185	Thank you. — I, too, wish the Bureau the best of luck with the surgery and the speedy recovery. You're wanted here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-11-ps-163.u186	In the course of the debate, Mr Tynkkynen, supported by Mari Rantanen, has tabled a motion of censure against Mr Haavisto, Foreign Minister.
