ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u2	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u3	Mr President! The new EU aid package of hundreds of billions threatens to take billions of dollars away from Finns to support rival countries. The government and the coalition are prepared to dump some EUR 6.4 billion of taxpayers' money in a package that will only bring back EUR 3 billion. However, this is not just about money, it is about a major transfer of power to the Union. That is not acceptable to the people, nor is it acceptable to the Finns. A survey of the European External Relations Council reveals its harsh language. According to it, half of Finns are concerned, frustrated or angry about the EU support package. Only a third is positive about the package. The Finns of Peru want to hold an advisory referendum on the new EU support package of hundreds of billions and the transfer of power to the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u4	Mr President! It is very important that citizens are listened to and discussed, and in Finland the opinion of citizens between elections is formed by Parliament,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u6	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u7	Mr President! So you are afraid to take this to a referendum because you fear that the people will knock out your federal dream. This is by far the biggest economic and legal issue over the whole period and even over a longer period of time. The aid package is a debt union under the guise of the corona, which aims to save the inefficient euro and the distressed banks of southern and central Europe. The EU will become a Union of transfers where the EU will gain significant power from the Member States. Debt imprisonment would give the EU the right to tax, and this would deepen the federal state in a direction in which we do not want to be involved. This is a major change to the EU Treaty. This is a major transfer of competence to the EU, which is why the people must have the right to vote on it, as was the case with EU membership. Mr Government, are you also handing over economic power to the federal state of the EU?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u9	Mr President! You paint with rather dark shades, even though you use a sort of colorful language here. I believe that the public is now more concerned about this corona situation, this health security situation and the inevitable economic crisis that has led to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u12	Madam Speaker! In the Finnish referendum on EU membership in 94 the facts were not properly addressed, but citizens' awareness of the EU rested largely on pro-European propaganda. The EU was mainly presented as a trade union that contributes to economic well-being. However, it was not said that we are losing our own currency, that we are going to be net contributors in the EU, and that the EU's common asylum policy will open up borders to the transfer of living standards. The new EU recovery package is not a stimulus package but a serious attempt to give Finland more autonomy to the EU. The Finns do not accept the new debt union or the Union for Current Transfers. Are you, Prime Minister Marin, afraid of this proposed referendum as a pro-EU politician because the people might not accept an EU federal state?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u13	Mr President! Just as Mr Tuppurainen described earlier in his reply, the Finnish Parliament is represented on this issue by a large committee, which has also dealt with this whole issue, but this issue is also brought before the Chamber as a whole through a decision on own resources, i.e. Parliament, which represents the Finnish people in the elected representatives' Chamber, will be able to discuss this whole together through decisions on own resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u14	Mr President! This so-called recovery package, which is actually a money transfer package, is an expensive financial error for Finland. You say that it will bring jobs to Finland. In fact, however, we are paying billions that others can gain a competitive edge and export businesses and jobs from Finland. But above all, this is a major mistake for Finland's sovereignty. If any power is given to the EU, it will never come back. On the contrary, with every crisis, the crisis will be brutally and unscrupulously exploited by the EU. Now would be the only and last time to say no to this development. Do you think, Mr Government, that it makes any sense for you to say to the Finnish people that you will give up Finland's sovereignty and money abroad without even holding a referendum on it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u15	Mr President! When Finland joined the European Union 26 years ago, the main arguments related not only to the economy but also to security. The EU is a central security policy community for us, it is the cornerstone of our security, and it is also our community of values. We in the government also want to strengthen the EU's common values, [Interjection from the Basic Finns Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u16	Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u17	Mr President! There are currently three referendum initiatives in the parliamentary process. Today, the next item in this session is the citizens' initiative and the bill, both of which call for referendums to be held. In the past, only two referendums have been held in Finland. Already at the beginning of the millennium, the Ministry of Justice has carried out a report on the development needs of the national referendum. A direct quote on it: ‘The national elections areone of the most central forms of direct national democracy at national level,for which a central My question is: is the government going to develop democracy in the direction of asking people's opinion on major issues through referendums?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u18	Mr President! We have 200 MPs in this Chamber elected every four years by the Finnish people, and this is the voice of the people and the power of the people. As the representative said, two referendums have previously been held in Finland. The first was in 1931 when a referendum was held on the abolition of the Prohibition Act, and the second referendum was then 94 when Finland was voted on accession to the EU, a member of the European Union. There is no project in progress to change our constitution. We in this Chamber have the power to decide because referendums are taking place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u19	Mr President! Mr Vanhanen, you mentioned in the autumn that this will be an impact assessment, in what way this recovery package will help Europe and these countries to move forward. We have great doubts that this money may not be used in such a way that it helps in particular to improve employment in Finland, for example in relation to exports. Are these estimates ready? Secondly, there must be criticism of the government that you are now running behind the elections. You do not want to, you dare not give the people the power of decision in this matter. If you had said in the elections that we will continue along this path, that we will support the European Union with transfers of income to such a significant extent, then I think that the election result would have been someone else. So, in this case, when the principles with which we joined the EU have been fundamentally violated, we should at times check with the people what kind of power we actually have. I don't think the people have given us a power of attorney that we're going to save.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u20	Mr President! The Commission has made its first economic forecast, including this recovery tool, and concluded that in the best years it will increase the Union's economy by around 2 percentage points.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u23	Mr President! A referendum was held in Great Britain and, as a result, Great Britain is leaving the European Union. It was said that when you leave the EU you have more money to spend on your own health care. Now the Business Insider has calculated that already so far GDP has fallen so much because of this departure that 27-year membership fees have already been lost, and I am sure that much less money will be available for health care and other services than if Britain had continued as a member of the European Union. In other words, this is just a point of view that it is worth considering before we go to these referendums. [Department: Should a mixture be caused?]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u24	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Satonen, for the important observation. It is quite clear that Poland and Hungary are now bearing heavy responsibility for this delay. They have now virtually stopped decision-making on the multiannual financial framework and the mobilisation of the recovery fund, and now we have to place our responsibility where it belongs, that is, in these two countries. But it is quite clear that Finland considers it important that the EU remains strong and united. Our objective is not to push any country over the EU cliff, neither Britain nor Poland and Hungary, but if we are to be involved, then we must commit ourselves to common values. The values of the EU are not moral ideals or opinions, but are enshrined in Article 2 of the Treaty. They are a legal fact. Once again, I am asking the Finns, if the President will allow you to: are you still committed to the rule of law when, in the large parliamentary committee, you resigned from the objective of linking EU funding to compliance with the common rules of play, the rule of law?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u25	Respected, Mr President! The SDP put together a government election for the losers. I'm afraid now you're being rudely overstepping the opinion of the people. Do you really have such lofty ideas of your own goodness that you will do so? I ask you again, because this is an important issue: will you betray the Finnish people or will you let the people decide on the recovery package? This is the most important information I would like to hear from Prime Minister Marin instead of explanations. Tell the Finnish people whether you listen to them or whether you make a decision without their opinion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u26	Yes, Mr Peltokangas, we Members of Parliament have been elected here to take these decisions, and we have a responsibility to deal with these matters and to decide on these matters. As I described earlier, the great Chamber of Parliament will also have this whole to deal with through its own resources decision, and at that time every Member of Parliament, each parliamentary party and parliamentary group, will form their own position on this. The great committee gives a mandate to the government, its ministers, including the Prime Minister, to negotiate such entities, and we always act in accordance with the instructions of the great committee, as we have done in this area too. Since the meeting took place in July, an appropriate report has also been submitted to the large committee. But in addition to that, the whole Chamber will have access to this issue through the own resources decision, and it is our duty as Members of Parliament to decide on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u27	Mr President! Minister Vanhanen and the rest of the government have repeatedly assured us that the recovery package is a unique and one-off solution. However, the government has also created the impression that Finland could not opt out of this package or halt its progress, as this would mean resigning from the European Union. Well, we have now seen that Poland and Hungary refuses to participate in it, although for quite different reasons than why Finland should refuse to participate in it. I find it strange that two net recipient countries can refuse such a package, while its net contributor, such as Finland, could not refuse this package. However, I would like to ask Minister Vanhanen: if, for the above reasons, Finland cannot in practice refuse to participate in or stop this package, how can you guarantee that this is a unique solution? What about when the next package comes to the table whether or not we have:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u28	President! Just as the Prime Minister said, a decision on own resources is needed in each country, and the national parliaments, including Finland, will take that decision, a decision on own resources that will definitively confirm both the EU's budget for the next seven years and the recovery package linked to it. And every country that doesn't approve of it will take down that package. In other words, this decision has not yet been taken, it is being taken by the national parliaments, and it must be adopted in each Member State. In other words, this decision-making process for its final part will be decided by Parliament in the winter. My point is that I do not believe that Finland, which is not in favour of this recovery instrument becoming a permanent system, is in no way in the interest of creating a kind of European interpretation that this is some kind of precedent for the future. I believe that we must consistently believe that this is a one-time decision this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u29	Mr President! I understand the question of the Finns, if it is a question of settling the matter for Parliament. We are well aware of the history of this referendum, to which the government has referred a few times here on various grounds, I will of course not go through it. When it is said here that the EU consciousness was weak when the referendum was held, what can anyone guarantee that this awareness on this issue would be somewhat different from what we have previously claimed to be going to? Parliament can't be a shoulder. Parliament cannot be a slump that avoids its responsibilities when matters are brought before it. It must take responsibility for these matters and not run away from its own territory. We have been set up to take responsibility, to make our decisions, and so I ask: is there another European country that is organising a referendum around this issue? I greatly doubt that such examples are very easy to find.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u31	Mr President! — In short, it is not. At least it has not come to my ears that any Member State is now holding a referendum on a matter of this kind, which is fully built on the normal EU decision-making framework, in the view of the EU institutions, from the point of view of the Commission, the Council of Member States and many EU law scholars, including Finns. This is a one-off solution that has been made, it is worth recalling, as a result of this corona crisis. This is not a bank rescue package, it is not a euro crisis, it is a financial crisis package, it is a question of EU solidarity, which was an integral part of the EU already.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u32	Madam President! It was the day of 16 October 1994 when this vote took place. In that vote, the question was worded precisely as follows: ‘Should Finland accede to the European Union in accordance with a negotiated agreement? “ But is this still true now that this system has changed completely? Now we are giving a stimulus package, perhaps some of which goes even to the Mafia — even the Mafia. When this was voted on, it was quite accurate, for ‘no’ was said in North Savo, North Karelia, Kainuu, Central Finland, Central Ostrobothnia, North Ostrobothnia and Lapland. So that wasn't quite clear even then. I would like to ask you about this recovery package: Where is that impact assessment when it seems to have still not been carried out? Do you have it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u33	Mr President! As I said, the Commission has now included its first assessment of the impact of this recovery package in its first economic forecast. The final effects will come through each country having to carry out a programme with objectives and the way in which they will be assessed and measured, and their combined effect will then show what the final impact will be. So we will return to this when the implementation of its programme is properly under way. You cannot ask questions here in the other direction, but I still ask: Do you not think it would be good to take the interpretation that this is only a one-time decision? This is a package of economic recovery in connection with this unique crisis, the global pandemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u34	Madam Speaker! Of course, an impact assessment should be carried out for Finland, and it is too late to carry out an impact assessment when the money has already been spent. You don't have to be a special mathematician to say that if Finland is going to give over six billion and six billion of other people's debts here, and in return, maybe, with good luck, about three billion, then it will have a negative impact on the Finnish economy. If the government wanted to make one as an amending budget, Finland would receive a couple of billion additional loans at a lower price. It would therefore be even more advantageous if it were to take out its own loan. This package will change the basic nature of the EU as a whole, and this fundamental change towards a federal state is the reason — when Minister Vanhanen asked — why this is not a one-off, but the EU is, and Finland is, at a historic crossroads.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u35	First Minister Vanhanen and then Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u36	Mr President! I do not understand at all how you submit to your interpretation that this is some kind of opening-up to the federal state. I do not think that such thinking should be subjected to, because that is not what this is all about. For Finland, this is a one-time solution, and we will stick to that interpretation. The impact assessment must be carried out, and when it is done in due course it must be accurate. It is very much affected, for example, by the fact that this grant is being used for, for example, an investment in a municipal or city energy company that is given 10% of the investment, which then leverages 90% of the company's own resources, and is being made by someone who invests hundreds of millions of dollars. The impact assessment will be influenced by investments in sectors such as renewable energy, energy savings, digitalization, for example, where Finland has a very large number of export companies that can produce
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u37	Mr President! The most important question here is why this type of recovery instrument is being made. This is because the European economy is recovering from the corona crisis. This has been an exceptional health crisis, but it has been a very serious economic crisis, a crisis from the employment point of view, a crisis from the welfare point of view. We are doing this recovery tool because we can together recover and recover from this crisis. Does Finland benefit from the recovery of the European economy? Yes, it will. It will benefit in many other ways than just through the three billion which this recovery instrument would probably bring us to invest in Finland, because the recovery of the common European economy — the recovery of the European economy, the recovery of the internal market — is a very critical issue for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u38	Madam President! Last spring, when this recovery package was in this Chamber for the first time, the government itself hoped that this would be the subject of a civil debate, right? And I must say that when, during the summer, by July, that package was quickly broken through, there was no civil debate. Unfortunately, it has not happened in this autumn either. The Christian Democrats have constantly underlined the fact that it would have made sense to keep the multiannual financial framework and the recovery package separate. We would not have found ourselves in such a situation where these EU agreements have been reinterpreted, and the President of the Republic has also been concerned about this. When Finns gave the mandate to join the EU at the time, it was very different from the EU: there was no knowledge of common debts, of common taxes or of these growing transfers. And once it has been said here that this is a one-time thing, if we now open the way to EU taxation, those taxes will be our cross for the next decades. I would have liked to ask the Prime Minister: when is this own resources agreement coming into this Chamber? Is it possible that it will be dealt with?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u39	Mr President! The Government will bring this own resources decision to Parliament as soon as possible. As soon as this whole thing is received, we will immediately bring it to Parliament. This is our purpose. And with regard to the question of what majority this will be dealt with, I am sure we will hear the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that is to say, this will be dealt with in the appropriate committee, and that is where we will get the assessment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u40	We shall now move on to the next question. — Mr Lepomäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u41	Mr President! Despite the weak disease situation in recent weeks, light begins to appear at the end of the tunnel and the end of the corona is looming. The vaccine may be coming in early next year. We would have a happy 20th century ahead of us, but unfortunately the problems in Finland seem to be just beginning, and the time for action is now. This week, the Coalition Party presented a reform programme, a path of hope that would bring 120,000 new jobs to the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u42	Mr President! This week in Parliament we discussed alternative budgets for opposition parties, and I think it is valuable, as I said in the debate at the time, that opposition parties have the opportunity to present their own options for government policy and that there will be a joint debate in the Chamber. The Government has brought to Parliament a draft budget for next year, and this is the budget proposal on which the government stands. Of course, we all want to see those flashes of light and hope in the future, but I personally believe that the government's budget proposal compared to the proposals of the opposition parties is the path of hope we must take.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u43	I would now ask those Members who wish to speak on this subject and ask supplementary questions, to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u44	Mr President! Finland needs growth and people need opportunities. During the Korona era, the options have been limited, but a new, bright horizon should soon be opened for people. The purchasing power of Finnish households has weakened year by year, and the cost of everyday life is highest in the euro area as a whole. The path of hope reduces the taxation of work and enterprise, expands the household allowance and lowers Finland's high overall tax rate. It would enable a smoother everyday life and bring activity into the country. A family with children would have a ton more in their hands a year. Why don't we blow up people's pockets instead of public debt? Prime Minister, your comrades in Sweden are calculating taxes. Why wouldn't it work in Finland? Why are you raising taxes?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u45	Mr President! Certainly Mr Vanhanen, the Minister for Finance, who has presented the budget to Parliament on behalf of the government, can supplement this response, but our central task next year will of course continue to be to safeguard the well-being of all people and the ability of health care to meet all the costs of the corona crisis. This is what the Government's budget proposal provides for, and this is what Parliament is discussing in its entirety. In other words, our key task next year will be to overcome this crisis and also to take measures that will bring new investments, new jobs, the prospects for which we have a shared vision. I believe that all of us in this Chamber want those prospects of hope and those prospects for a brighter time. It is true that, for example, this news of the vaccine that has now been received is an excellent thing. The government has discussed the Finnish vaccine strategy this week, yesterday, in its negotiations, and we hope, of course, that as soon as possible:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u46	Mr President! This is not where the Prime Minister directly answered the question himself. So the interest rate policy is one part, and the other is the one on which Finland emerges from this economic crisis. Now, if you look at the crises of previous decades, it is also crucial to take measures in the crisis, which will not remain in the spiral of oblivion, but will also emerge from it on the basis of the crisis. This is what it's all about. Now the Coalition Party has put forward some tax models and some employment measures. And now it is a question for the Prime Minister: now that there are clearly only a few ministers in the government who are positive about these new forms of employment, and the rest of the ministers are looking for ways to prevent these forms of employment, can you now say to Parliament that, for a year and a half, this government, the Rinne-Marin government, will become such means of employment? The Coalition Party has set out the means. You'd have to do them to make them. Finland would be able to grow. Ultimately
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u47	Mr President! Throughout its term, the government has been active in the field of employment,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u50	Mr President! It is clear that the time of the government has, understandably, gone to acute treatment of the corona. On the other hand, we already know that the interest rate is likely to disappear this year. That is why I am a little concerned that the government lacks a post-corona exit strategy. This has also been noted by many experts. Indeed, this week the Coalition Party has brought its own alternative to Parliament for evaluation. In particular, employment and indebtedness rates are different from those in the government budget. All of us in this Chamber want to safeguard the future of our welfare society. With the current government policy, we will not save it. You should already have a view of how we can achieve, for example, our employment rate at the level of the other Nordic countries in the direction of 80%. When will you have a better view of Finland like this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u51	Mr President! Since the beginning, the Government has been working to increase the employment rate. The target was agreed together at 75%, but then came the interest rate that prevented this time span from being realised, which was planned. With interest we also see that unemployment has risen, layoffs have increased, and in this situation we must also be able to do the right thing. The Government has not abandoned the measures and objectives that were created at the beginning. We are raising employment services to the Nordic level. We want to get to what you were talking about, Mr Häkkänen, to get to the Nordic level. This requires a strong strengthening of employment services, and that is what the budget now has the resources to do, and we will do so. We want to get to grips with the fact that people get decent service from the start, to narrow the service path,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u52	Mr President! The Minister of Labour, Mr Haatainen, spoke of these initial parameters. I remember those initials very well. At the time, the employment issues were dumped into the tripartite working groups, which for a long time had nothing to do with them. Then this epidemic started, and you could start talking about other things. We have been discussing budgets, alternative budgets and their realism this week. Well, opposition parties do not have officials, but now that the key issue is how to come out of this crisis, and the forecasts show that Finland will come out with a huge deficit, unlike the other Nordic countries, should we not even have a realistic road map? In my opinion, Mr Vanhanen, the road map of public finances that you are offering through the Government is more or less ridiculous. It provides billions of dollars from the magic wall of digitalisation and the magic wall of wage moderation and the general maintenance of competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u53	Mr President! However, public finances consist of the services we produce. The price of producing them, the cost will be influenced by the way in which we use e.g. digitality or the way in which we use 50000 to 60000 properties of the state, municipalities and how we compete in procurement. All of this has an impact on whether we do it sparingly or spending money. After this epidemic, a large number of companies have empty cashiers. They have used their own resources to maintain employment. In what way do we get growth back on track – that is why the government is preparing Finland's sustainable growth programme, a recovery package that mobilises investment and creates the courage to invest in Finland, we need to invest here. We should not be content with the forecasting institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u54	Madam President! It is clear that Finland is now in debt because of the necessary support solutions for interest rate and cyclical expenditure, and all the more reason to get rid of all the waste and waste. They are the brake on growth in the future. Any unnecessary additional debt must be prevented. In addition to limiting the pandemic, rationalising public finances is by far the best cyclical and employment policy. You all know that. Will you, my dear government, my dear Minister Vanhanen, start to balance public finances, or will you continue to overwhelm them as a result of large, pointless and unproductive activities? Or do you want more quality? So more quantity or more quality?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u55	Mr President! Quality needs to be improved. Quality and productivity need to be improved. That is the basic way in which the money available is sufficient for them, one might say, to meet the growing needs of public service provision, because at the same time we have an ageing population. But perhaps an example of the ease or difficulty of this balancing is the alternative budget that you presented to Parliament just yesterday, the True Finns. For next year, the difference between the deficit and the government proposal was EUR 70 million. At a level of more than EUR 11 billion, EUR 70 million — it shows that you actually have the same scale as the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u56	Madam President! In this path of Hope of the Coalition Party, we will present next year the means by which the Finnish economy will be steered for the better, no less than one billion better than by your means. In the long term, this is EUR 4 billion plus compared to the government's plans. My question is: why are you not making these proposals now, when the time for the budget is and should be? We create 120,000 new jobs, comes with a household allowance, local arrangement, and so on. With this small group of opposition, we can make a budget that is good for Finland. There are positive openings for everyone. I have to ask: what does your historic great special assistants and assistants do when you do not come up with any proper proposals here for our assessment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u57	Mr President! This question was not properly addressed to anyone. The government has made proposals, the government has promised to take the following employment decisions during this December, and Parliament will certainly be able to deal with them during the winter. The Government's budget proposal for next year is currently in the final stage in Parliament, and it will create, I might say, the entire economic framework and also financial security for the citizens of next year. In the past, we were asked why we do not reduce taxes. We have the basic analysis at the moment that, for example, the consumer behaviour of people, households, for example, is most affected at the moment by what is known as a sense of security. And we have been taking care of this year and for next year we will see to it that, in these circumstances of the crisis, people can as well continue their normal lives as possible. It will also provide the basis for us all to be ready to move forward together after this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u58	Mr President! Listening here to the contributions of the Coalition Party on this option of theirs comes with the feeling that the Coalition Party has succeeded in making an alternative in which everyone wins and no one loses. [of the Group of the European People's Party : Yes! ] President! I looked a little more closely at this alternative to the Convention, and it turned out that something is being left out. I received an estimate from the Information Service, which says that there are actually quite a lot of losers and those for whom this path is quite rocky, such as students who are now not very high incomes — student households are well losing here, up to a couple of hundred euros — and the long-term unemployed. And indeed, when you look at how this affects the different population groups, the biggest winners are the most well-off and the biggest losers are the lowest-income ones. In other words, there are large cuts in housing allowance, income support, unemployment benefit, pension accruals for the unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u59	Mr President! The red thread of the government throughout the crisis has been that we want to take care of people, care for families, care for the operating conditions of companies. We are also concerned about the situation in the municipalities, and that is why, for example, we have made support measures for regions, municipalities, businesses and people, so that together we can overcome this crisis. For example, these subsidies for municipalities, which we have increased very widely, are precisely because we can safeguard people's basic services, the organisation of education and, in a crisis such as this, worry that everyone is going to be all right. The government's policy does not stem from taking low incomes and giving high incomes, but the basic line is that we all have to work together in society, and that is the main idea that our draft budget for next year has also been drawn up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u60	Congressman Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u61	Madam President! It is clear that all countries are in debt as a result of the interest rate, but the unfortunate difference between us and the other Nordic countries or our Central European countries is that there is not even a prospect that our debt will begin to decline, but that the entire coming decade will be in debt, and that is extremely worrying. Unfortunately, these objectives of budgetary balance are not achieved because of the interest rate, of course, but the problems of the Finnish economy have not disappeared from the interest rate, but have only become more complex and, of course, a responsible economic policy is that when expenditure increases are made, so must employment measures be taken. It cannot be that expenditure increases are first and employment measures at the end of the decade. It is true, Prime Minister, that the government is able to take employment measures and those decisions,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u66	Mr President! The entire government is committed to taking action on employment. The decisions will be taken during this term of government with regard to the 80,000 increase in employment, but it is clear that in such a deep corona crisis, in which we are in, we also need active fiscal policy, a stimulating policy, support for businesses, regions and municipalities, so that here and now we can minimise the damage and damage caused by a very serious health and economic crisis of this kind, but I can assure you that the whole government is jointly committed to taking employment measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u67	At this point, the last of this theory.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u68	Mr President! You, Prime Minister, said that you do not want to cut off low incomes and export high incomes — well, neither do we. The problem is that we are already the poor people of the Nordic countries, and if we continue along this path, what you are pulling, we will soon be in Europe with the very low incomes, and that is why we should look a little further than these few months from now. Unfortunately, I also received a few citizens' messages here about why the Prime Minister is not answering a clear question. We asked about taxes. And you yourself have apparently spoken in the mouth of the President of the SDP in favour of a further increase in taxation in Finland. The other minister spoke out in favour of blackmailing the process. Do you realise that on a European scale you have chosen a completely more extreme path? What's going on at the end of that tunnel? And what is your tax policy in the end? So are you still going to increase the tax burden on Finns, even in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u69	Mr President! The government has a common line. It is agreed in the Government Programme, and the Government together will submit budget proposals to Parliament, and the Parliament will deal with them. There are no lines of individual parties for the government, but there is a common line of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u73	Next question, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u74	Madam President! According to a recent survey, all OECD countries have the highest share of housing expenditure that is rented in Finland. High rents have contributed to the fact that since 2010, Kela's housing allowance expenditure has increased by as much as 65 per cent. Last year Kela paid over 2 billion housing allowance. Well, why is this? That's because we have a system failure. In many new housing companies, the debt ratio can now be very high, up to 80%. The owner of an investment dwelling may deduct from the rental income the entire financial consideration, which includes both the interest rate and also the reduction of the loan if the housing company has decided to do so. What does the government intend to do in order to eliminate such a system failure that distorts the housing market and is unfair?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u75	Mr President! The relevant entity is being prepared in the working group, and the work is being carried out with these features, which the questioner, Mr Östman, has presented here. We really have the possibility in the system that if a housing company has certain rules and decisions, the shareholder may also reduce the repayments of loans. It is not possible for a normal homeowner. Overall, there are a lot of factors in this housing funding that need to be looked at now. The government, and also the Financial Supervisory Authority, has a particular interest in paying attention to the indebtedness of households, which may be the one that is currently flashing in red, and in particular the increase in the share of housing company loans has been one of the main factors in my view for this to happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u76	Mr President! Kojamo is the largest real estate investor in Finland, which owns over 35,000 rental dwellings. Kojamo's working on it, despite the corona. The company announced in its interim report that a huge number of apartments are under construction. The Ay movement has considerable ownership in Kojamo, and the large and tax-free investment income of the unions has provoked a lot of public criticism. Why? Well, because a significant part of the housing allowance is leaking to trade unions and has brought to Finland the highest rents in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u78	Mr President! I do not feel that I, as a minister, have the opportunity to comment on whether a company has paid for election support. Each person will judge for himself whether it is right or wrong. After all, the situation in the rental market is that if the debts of the rental dwelling you own have been paid, it is practically non-debted, then the very large part of the rental income is a profit for the owner. This is how it works. It has been important for us that we have had, you can say, a strong intuition and an interest in building rental dwellings because they have been needed, and they have been built a lot in recent decades, and of course that means that someone always owns those apartments, and there will be a lot of profit from the rental income. And the questioner is right that this system involves a lot of housing allowance going into these rentals. It's the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u79	Next question, Mr Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u80	Mr President, ärade talman! There has been a significant burden on social and health care staff. The load is both mental and physical, and it has also affected leisure time. In addition to their own health, workers have had to risk the health of their families and loved ones in carrying out their work necessary to deal with the corona crisis. Keeping protective equipment throughout the shift is hard and hard to cope with. Nurses tell us that uncertainty and anxiety are present every day. Special arrangements, such as bans on visits, not only test the clients but also the carers. In the rest of the Nordic countries and in Europe, nurses have received an exceptionally heavy period of financial compensation and their role in managing the corona crisis has been identified. How the Finnish Government intends to act in this situation and financially compensates the nursing staff for the corona crisis
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u81	Minister Kiuru. - Do you have a minister to answer? — Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u82	Mr President! We all know that nursing workers are doing a very heavy job there at the forefront of corona therapy at the moment. Much thanks to all of us for this work and, of course, we hope that this corona epidemic — this second stage — will not accelerate any further so that we can avoid overloading hospitals, departments, intensive care units. The question of how the government responds to the question of whether separate compensation would be paid: the government is not — the state is not — the social partner. These negotiations will take place and these decisions will be taken at the labour market table between employers and employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u83	We have one more question to ask. — Representative Holopainen, Hanna.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u84	Mr President! Christmas is approaching, and it is now expected in quite different moods than what has been used to in our country. Interest restrictions and social isolation have particularly affected the mental endurance of young people. According to a survey conducted by the Spring Alliance Association, nearly 70 per cent of young people reported that the corona virus has brought or aggravated anxieties or problems to life. Now that new restrictions have been introduced, the situation is likely to turn into spring. Many young people have moved back to distance studies, many hobbies have been canceled, and the future is uncertain. The youth facilities are also closed. Youth work is challenging to reach young people in their homes, although in some municipalities youth work has moved online. So I ask Minister Saarikko: how have municipalities and organisations been instructed in the organisation of youth work and hobby activities so that a situation such as the spring can be avoided?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u85	Mr President! Mr Holopainen, in your question you described in a very truthful and, indeed, very ghastly way the situation that young people and, of course, all Finns now have in their hands. We are no longer talking about just the capital region, but about the vast majority of the countries. I am grateful and pleased that Finnish youth work has been able to stretch and perform its best even in these times, especially with digital services. Fortunately, the target group of young people has also been very receptive to these services. Fortunately, there was also a period when services could be more or less normal. My particular concern also relates to the results of a study commissioned by the Ministry of Education and Culture, which was found particularly by post-secondary graduates who did not open up or have no job. Measures have been proposed to the Ministry, and that is what we are going to address. It is therefore linked to the educational path and, on the other hand, to the well-being of young people. In a very specific way, this is now asking for resources from the third sector and from each of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u86	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. In this context, discussion is also allowed on the 5th issue of the agenda. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u87	Mr President! First of all, I would like to express my warm thanks to the young people in Finland, thanks to Miko Bergbom, Santeri Eskola, Joakim Vigelius, Laura Jokela, Ville Muilu and other members of the association. The initiative reached the signatures required in just four days, which in itself reflects the importance of the issue in the eyes of the citizens. Mr President! In the autumn of 1994, Finland held an advisory referendum leading to Finland’s accession to the European Union. Since then, the whole of the European Union has undergone many changes. The new Member States, on the one hand, and the decision of the British people to leave the EU, on the other hand, have contributed to the change in the structure of the Union as a whole. Furthermore, the EU Treaties on the basis of which Finns voted on EU membership have, as a result of many crises and deep integration, encountered interpretations that could not even be imagined at the time of the 1994 referendum. It could not then be imagined of hundreds of billions of income transfers from one country to another in the present recovery package. I think and believe that the result of the vote on Finland's membership of the EU would have been very different if we had known about the past and future aid packages. Mr President! Last July, the European Council and the Heads of State and Government reached agreement on the EU recovery package of EUR 750 billion. The Finnish Government's line at the meeting was represented by Prime Minister Sanna Marin. Finland’s total liabilities are planned to increase to around EUR 13 billion, which includes both loans and direct grants. In the case of transfers in the form of direct grants alone, Finland is facing a net loss of EUR 3.4 billion. [Base Finns Group : Ahhh! ] On the other hand, the repayment of loans is expected to be extended up to 2058, i.e. until I, for example, was 70 years old. So I'd pay and people of the same age would pay for this package all the way to the old age — huh? Being a guarantor of loans, as in real life, means that the guarantor may have to pay off the loan if the borrower is unable to pay it. We know how weak the economic situation in the countries of southern Europe is — we would not otherwise be in this situation — and so there is a real risk that the liability for guarantees will also fall to the Finnish taxpayer. On the basis of the past, it is clear that transfers and uncertainties related to the repayment of the recovery package can be found to jeopardise the future state of public finances and thus even the well-being of citizens. Mr President! The government has justified the need for this recovery package through the economic crisis caused by the interest rate. However, the impact of the recovery package goes far beyond and beyond what is required by the corona crisis. The recovery package is so important that its economic and social impact requires broad acceptance from the Finnish people. That is why we need a referendum on the recovery package, which is the subject of this citizens' initiative. The billions and billions of euros package makes it particularly important the fact that our own country's economy is in the midst of huge sustainability deficit problems and is facing record budget deficits brought about by the corona crisis. So in Finnish we are in debt to the ears. Finnish taxpayers' money is therefore needed here in Finland and not in southern Europe. Madam President! However, if the majority of the parliamentary parties confirm Finland’s participation in the recovery package, the importance of many upcoming elections in Finland will be limited. Many future governments would be bound by the conditions set out in the aid package that is now being proposed, so that the citizens will not be able to change Finland's direction through the elections. There was no information on the recovery package during the parliamentary elections in 2019, which resulted in the formation of the current government. It is of paramount importance for Finnish democracy and citizens' empowerment that such an important decision on the direction of Finland is not to be taken without a mandate from the Finnish people. By organising a referendum on the recovery package, the current government would also be given a clear mandate, according to which Finland's decision to participate in the recovery package could be made with respect for democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u88	At this point, we will immediately start a debat, where you can use the V button to ask for debatable comments. I see that there are also ministers here, so ministers will also be able to participate in this debate. — Debatin will begin this time by Mr Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u89	Madam Speaker! Thank you for your reply, although I have not yet asked for it. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u92	Mr President! Mr Antikainen's speech was a very rare collection of misconceptions and misconceptions. But all I have to say now is that exports represent almost half of Finland's economy, about 40 per cent. More than half of Finland's exports, around 60%, have been directed to the EU before this corona crisis. What happens to the Finnish economy, to our well-being, depends very much on whether the export market is going to recover, and it cannot be done by domestic measures alone. This can only be done through joint EU action. All in all, I think it would be sensible to discuss how we want to develop the EU instead of trying to say 'no' to everything. And when we talk about it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u93	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the citizens’ initiative makers, the initiators, the Peruvian youth and the signatories. The EU Recovery Package represents a net loss of EUR 3.4 billion for Finland. The overall responsibility with loans and direct grants is planned to increase to 13 billion. When we talk about the multi-billion-dollar package, the impact will be reflected for many years in Finland's future budgets. The huge sustainability gap and the effects of the corona crisis are also creating a mega-class problem for Finland. The EU Treaty is being violated. The spirit of its Treaty has been wiped out with this stimulus package. The majority of the people want a referendum on the recovery package here in Finland. What is the government afraid of? It seems that you are afraid of that possible outcome in the vote. And the True Finns do not believe that this stimulus package is one-off.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u94	Madam President! A lot has happened to us in the world in recent years. And when Brexit and Britain are used here as an example, it is good to remember that the Business Insider had calculated that Brexit has already paid Britain more than 47 years of EU membership fees, so we can well think here about what is the final price tag for populism and cornerism. We can think about what export-driven Finland will do alone if Europe and the whole world are not able to revive themselves from this corona crisis. And we don't even know how long this whole process will last. If anyone really thinks that the Finnish economy will recover without Europe and without global economic development, then we will really be at the hot dog kiosk level in the policy that is being done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u95	Mr President! It is certainly the case that Finland's economy will recover as others' economy recovers, but it is worth considering how much it is worth paying others instead of improving its own competitiveness. This is now a citizens' initiative which proposes a referendum on this recovery package. If I lend Mr Vanhanen EUR 100 and you pay me back EUR 50 and tell me where I can spend the EUR 50, it is quite clear that people will understand that this is not necessarily a bad deal, but the question arises as to whether this will then turn into a good deal when it comes to taxpayers' money, that is, the money of ordinary Finns, which is now being scrapped with such a system. Is this what you fear that Finns will realise, that this deal makes no sense and that Finland will grovel in EU negotiations?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u96	At this point, I will give Minister Henriksson three minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u97	Mr President! In Finland, referendums are very rare. So far, two national consultative referendums have been submitted in Finland. The first was in 1931, and there was a vote on whether alcohol can be sold in Finland. The second vote was 94 votes on EU membership. The referendum is always advisory, and Article 53 of the Constitution provide for a decision on the organisation of the advisory national vote to be taken by The procedure to be followed in the referendums is therefore governed by law. Parliament's gonna set the rules. Parliament is elected by the people and we all have a duty to act as legislators. Parliament has dealt carefully with the EU recovery package. It has been discussed here several times, and on Tuesday, for example, a debate was held in plenary on the Government's sustainable growth programme. Parliamentary committees discussed Finland's negotiating position on the basis of Government statements before the summit in the summer, a large committee has also discussed the matter several times since then, and a large committee decided on Parliament's position at the various stages of the negotiations. So Parliament is the one who plays a key role here. Parliament must also take responsibility. All the decisions that are taken in this Parliament are not easy, but it is also a question of whether Finland wants to be involved in the EU, whether it wants to find solutions to this difficult situation where we are, whether we want to find solutions that are really important to our export-driven country too, whether we want to resolve the situation in the EU together with the others, and in such a situation it is the responsibility of this Parliament, and it cannot be given to the citizens. I think that we should now discuss what the responsibility is, what every Member of Parliament has, rather than calling for referendums. That is not the solution here. This is where Mrs Kyllönen spoke well, and also the chairman of the large committee, and I agree with them. The fact that the Finnish people want a referendum on this issue also suggests that you would like the EU to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u98	Mr President! That is where the Minister just gave the impression very strongly that this recovery package would be some kind of condition for staying in the European Union. Such hints have been heard in this Chamber before, and I would now like to hear confirmation from the government as to whether Finland is really being blackmailed by the fact that we are going to be separated from the whole of the European Union if we do not go along with this package. Is this really your argument? The main reason for the need for this referendum is that there is talk of a far-reaching and fundamental issue, of a change in the direction of the EU and of a structural change that was not voted on in 94, and even when this Parliament was elected in elections, there was no debate on such a matter. This issue was brought up under the pretext of the corona crisis and is now being pushed through in a hurry and in the dark. The government fled the debate on this issue in the summer, and now the government is fleeing a referendum on this issue. Such action cannot be acceptable. This is not a vote on membership of the EU or the withdrawal of the euro, but on whether Finland will join this package.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u99	Madam President! Perhaps it is worth opening up to the point that no EU country is in the process of holding a referendum on this so-called recovery fund or on a sustainable growth fund, not for example Sweden or Denmark, who are our Nordic friends, our analogue countries and where, for example, there is no euro currency in place. They have their own currency, and yet Sweden and Denmark has taken the view that it is appropriate to be included in this package. Finland’s responsibilities are precise in this package. There will be no unbridled delinquency here, which Antikainen spoke of at first. Finland lives from exports. For example, my own region of Western Finland, Ostrobothnia, is one of the most economically affected areas, because buyers in the countries of export have no money for this. In addition, this programme has a lot of good projects across the provinces: broadband, biogas, training places, good subsidies. So I ask Mr Antikainen: which subsidies should Savo-Karjalan be cut?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u100	Mr President! Firstly, to what Mr Hassi said that my whole speech was in some way wrong. However, you did not give an example of what was wrong with my speech, so perhaps it will tell all about your statement. [Satu Hassi’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u104	Mr President! The other day in this hall, Mr Kurvise again felt bad when the Finns mentioned immigration. Given that it is a wasteful annual burden of hundreds of millions of euros on Finns, I think it is necessary for someone here to talk about it too. Instead, it is more difficult to understand that Mr Kurvinen talks about the Finns and thinks about the Finns of Peru on all days of the week. I fear that the Finns of Peru are persecuting you even in your dreams. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u105	Madam President! First of all, Mr Antikainen, you will find that there are many very important export companies in your province, such as Ponsse, which is famous for its success in the economic areas of Joensuu and Kuopio, or in the small town of Vieremä. Their customers are all over the world, all over Europe. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] We don't live in a bottle, ladies and gentlemen. Nor do Finnish provinces and rural areas squirm in a bottle — we do not squirm there, unlike Halla-aho thinks there is a squirming. Mr President! It should also be noted that this recovery fund will be part of the EU's future budgetary period. It is also linked to the agricultural subsidies received by Finland, the cohesion and regional aid received by Finland, and has produced a very good result of this recovery fund. 6 per cent increase in agricultural subsidies received by Finland;
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u106	Madam President! After all, the question in the referendum is essentially to seek legitimacy from the people for the decisions that are being taken, not that decisions are not being taken in this House. That is why I am also thinking about the fact that this civil debate, which the government itself called for, did not really go around this issue. That is why I believe that this citizens' initiative gives me reason to wonder whether, in Finland, now that the EU has become completely different from what it has been associated with, it would be good to ask the citizens whether this is the right direction. This recovery instrument and the related own resources decisions will always bind the Finnish Parliament there until 2058, and there is no guarantee that this decision will not be renewed and that this recovery instrument will become a permanent arrangement. This is the direction in which the ECB and the leading Central European politicians, among others, have hinted. In that sense:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u107	Mr President! The referendum and the EU recovery instrument are both major issues. First of all, this recovery instrument. This recovery fund, which is planned at the level of 750 billion, is a joint European project to capture the economic effects of this corona virus. What will Finland and the Finns benefit from this 750 billion? 1) Take immediate advantage of EUR 3.2 billion through the economic sustainability-building projects that we are working on. 2) Economic growth in the European Union will accelerate by around 2% per year. 60% of Finland's exports go to the EU. The recovery of the EU's economies will have an employment-intensive impact on Finland. At present, 660,000 jobs are being created on the EU market. With a 2% growth target, you can calculate how many tens of thousands of jobs we are talking about. When 94 referendums were held on the EU,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u108	Madam President! On 20 August this year, the European Parliamentarian, Mauri Pekkarinen, spoke and wrote on 15 October that this package of gifts is purely a question of saving Italy and the euro. — Do you agree, Mr Kurvinen?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u111	Madam President! In the future, the only solution to the increased EU debt will be the EU's tax law, which is already known to us all. Everyone can ask whether the tax burden of Finns can be increased by 5% or even 10% by EU tax. We are faced with a situation where the only option left is to reduce the Finnish state budget, where social, educational and pension expenditure is the largest expenditure item. This will lead to the end of the road opened by the recovery instrument waiting for the dismantling of our welfare state. The sacrifice of our fathers and our mothers for our country and for our constitution will be wasted. So this is now the goal of the present government? I'll ask the finance minister now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u112	And this is Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u113	Mr President! Yesterday, in the alternative budgets, we heard the Christian Democrats say that by taxing sugar we would raise EUR 250 million. In the next 30 years, if this package goes through, the net contribution we are talking about will be just over EUR 3 billion. So that means that Finland will pay 100 million in membership fees to the Union, i.e. will it then be around 30-40% of this sugar tax revenue? Is that how you handle this debt? So much for these proportions. We clearly have a different idea of how the economy works, where work comes from, which is the importance of international exchange for employment in Finland and for the development of the national economy. This disagreement is huge and explains that the perspective on this whole package is also different. First, we had to decide whether to correct and revive the economy after this serious crisis in the Member States, in the individual nation states, or in the economic area together. Finland’s response was: together, jointly coordinated, with a common story, with common funding, which the Union takes as a debt from the market. Then the net payment will be made on the basis of what is the Union's statute, the fact that the best economic managers will pay net and those who are recipients will receive it. And that will happen over the next 30 years, so it will be around EUR 100 million per year. If it is compared to our own spending of 30 billion this year and next year, it may tell us something about these proportions. And finally, on this initiative itself: The government is not proposing a referendum, but the government does not decide on this citizens' initiative either, but it is being dealt with by Parliament. Parliament will decide what happens to the citizens' initiative. The government is not about to put forward a referendum on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u114	Madam President! Estonia will pay 2.4 billion for the recovery package and will receive 8.3 billion from it. In other words, Estonia will receive EUR 5.9 billion net. However, Estonia has a very small central government debt, especially if viewed in relation to Finland. The overall tax rate in Estonia is clearly lower than in Finland so that Minister Tuppurainen — when Finance Minister Vanhanen was able to leave — could explain in the language of this people: why Estonia receives so much, and why Finland costs this much?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u116	Mr President! This terrible recovery tool is being used to deceive the Finnish people and to fade Finland into one part of the federal state. That is why we need a referendum. With this package, the enemies of our people and our independence are misleading us. The Euro-Communists want to crush our economy, and it is an act of deliberate destruction in favour of federal development. Ministers should promote the interests of Finland and promote the well-being of Finns, but that is not the case. The Minister for European Affairs also believes that the interests of Finland should not be promoted. We live in terrible times, in an atmosphere of lies and deception. Mr President! How can the government act so ruthlessly and betray the Finnish people? Where is the moral backbone of the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u117	Madam President! Here, Minister Vanhanen said that there is a very different view of the economy and recovery and of how to get the economy into transport. Well, I do not know — I myself have studied economics, I am an economist by my education, and I do find it very strange that we should be able to provide funding here, for example, for a country that is indebted to Italy, to ensure that those Italian debtors would then buy products specifically from Finland and in that way support this increase in our economy. In some ways, I find this kind of economic thinking based on indebtedness to be rather unusual and dangerous, and I would hope that we will begin to overcome the illusions of this kind more widely. It makes sense to keep the foundations of the economy in the nation state in order and thus together to revive but everyone there from their own starting point and to do it through recovery,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u118	Madam President! When Minister Vanhanen was able to leave, I would ask Minister Tuppuri whether Finland is somehow pushing this issue forward, that countries like these in southern Europe, such as Italy and Spain, which are now receiving quite a lot of money, should make painful structural decisions in their economies so that we will not be in this situation again soon. This is one root reason for this situation. How do you see the situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u119	Madam President! Indeed, there seems to be a very different view in this Chamber of how Finland’s economy will rise and recover and how closely linked we are to the EU economy. On the other hand, such a different view could not be seen or heard when Parliament, in the spring of the committee, started to deal extensively with this recovery instrument. For example, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy we have heard widely from people from different parts of society, and very widely the views of industry, entrepreneurs, M.C.T., regional developers and also researchers were in line with the Government's view. Finland will recover as the EU recovers. I wonder if the Finns or Christian Democrats have any better information than, for example, these economists or, for example, Finnish regional developers about it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u120	Mr President! Now that we are discussing the holding of a referendum on this issue of the recovery package, this issue can also be approached from the point of view that people want to ask their opinion. If we are the rule of law, then the principle of being interested in the opinion of the people should be respected. This isn't unusual. For example, there is no need to belong to the European Union, because Switzerland organises a referendum even four times a year on very minor matters, and its value is very much respected in that country. In that sense, we should not underestimate that opinion of the people on matters of such importance. But when Mr Kiljunen mentioned these two points as to why we should go along with this, such as the fact that we are getting money, with which we revive in Finland, we would actually get this money, even if we applied for a loan on the market and revive it on our own terms and would not have to reciprocally put EUR 3.4 billion in gift money, for example, for Italy and Greece, which receive very much free money. And secondly, economic growth comes from job creation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u121	Madam President! The government justifies this recovery package with mathematical dishonesty. The Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Johannes Koskinen, has explained how the recovery instrument pays for itself: Finland receives 6.6 billion of its package for its own use in 3.2, and according to Koskinen, the use of 3.2 billion in Finland will generate a growth boost that will be sufficient to pay 6.6 billion over 30 years. Finland will give 3.4 billion of this package to the net recipient countries, and according to Koskinen's logic, these 3.4 billion should create a growth boost in the net recipient countries, which would probably then be sufficient to pay more than 6 billion loans. Now that Mr Tuppurainen is still here: what on earth is the reason why the countries of southern Europe do not pay their own recovery costs with the profits of the growth they generate there, since it is also possible for Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u122	Mr President! I was a Member of Parliament when Finland joined the EU,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u127	Madam President! Where is Prime Minister Sanna Marin when it comes to the citizens' initiative on the theft of Finnish tax assets, which the Prime Minister went to agree on in Brussels? Or where are the representatives of the government parties? There are 200 MPs in this Parliament, and we currently have five representatives from the government parties present to listen to and discuss the EU issue. You do not seem to be interested in what the Finnish tax money is spent on, and that is outrageous. You, the government, have argued that this Parliament represents only the will of the people, but which election machine asked whether Finns would be prepared to pay for such giant packages for the EU or for the EU to be created in the next parliamentary term as a debt union? This is the kind of election machines I didn't see, or the party lines.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u128	Madam President! I can assure Mr Tynkkys that there will certainly be very strong government representatives in this Chamber. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u129	Madam President! First of all, I would like to say to Mr Kangas that I very much appreciate Mr Mauri Pekkar of the European Parliament and the last time I texted him today. He and I are discussing this and many other issues. President! What is being said here is what is being saved: whether it saves banks, whether it saves Italy. Does Italy and Finland matter? I can give you an example of living life. In my region, a company in the metal industry had to lay off because they did not get the components from Italy — you heard correctly, from Italy. There is a very important technology industry in northern Italy that is linked to Finnish industry and industry. Germany is one of our most important export destinations. If the German economy dives after the Italian economy, it will affect us even more. We don't live in a bottle. It's a good thing to remember. This is not a moment of joy and joy, President, but I see that this recovery package is absolutely necessary and that it will also speed up work in our regions, which the Finns of Finland have also hoped for. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u130	Mr President! Of course, in the case of the recovery package, it is appropriate to ask the people. The will of the people is the only right will for this country, and nothing else is right. I wonder, however, that the centre here is glowing on the goodness of this aid package, the recovery package — I believe the debt imprisonment package — and access to what we receive from it, three billion, but I have not read any of the proposals from the centre that, for example, the taxation of peat could have been abolished with all this good. No, the centre goes as a government poodle and knocks down peat production, watching people have debts of EUR 4 million and machines go into scrap iron.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u131	Yes, I would point out here that there is a referendum here in particular in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u132	Madam President! I would now like to say to Mr Peltokanka that in your home town, which is apparently, or at least to come, where you are going to go to municipal elections in Kokkola, one of the most important chemical industries in Finland. Our whole constituency, the constituency of Vaasa — Southern Ostrobothnia, Central Ostrobothnia, Vaasa region — is a very strong area of export industry. If you look at the statistics, our constituency will suffer the most from the financial interest rate, because our customers will lose the money. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u133	Mr President! This is where Mr Kurvise is going, but let us calm down a little bit there. You spoke of Kokkola and the fact that our region is a strong export leader in Finland, and we are proud of it, probably also Mr Kurvinen. Now, however, the fact is that when you mentioned that we are babbling about immigration here, we are talking about the recovery package and I was talking about the role of peat in the sense that, when you approve the recovery package, you are not going to give anything there to the security of energy supply in the province.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u136	Mr President! Referring to me, Mr Niikko mentioned why the EUR 6.5 billion that Finland is currently investing in this recovery fund is not invested in Finland. I tried to answer you in this way, and I mentioned earlier that the recovery fund is therefore 750 billion, and it is reviving Europe as a whole, which gives Finland the immediate benefit of 3.2 billion and 660,000 Finnish jobs depend on it, the European Union market, the European market. Saving these 660,000 jobs with this recovery fund is an A issue, and the B question is that the 2% increase that this brings to Europe as a whole will benefit Finnish work. That is why it is not worth investing that money in Finland at this point, because it does not revive the Europe on which we depend. Italy also participates in its own way, with its contribution to this recovery fund, as is the case with all the other countries, so there is no point in talking about Finnish money being marked in a special EU country. This is a joint revival of the EU market as a whole, and investment in the future is, of course, the main objective, which is also to condition it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u137	At this point, I will give two more replies, followed by Mr Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u138	Mr President! Representative Kiljunen and representative Kurvinen, Finland's exports amounted to approximately EUR 65 billion in 2019. Italy accounted for only around 3.5 % to 3.6 % of it. Are you really saying that Italy currently receives 82 billion direct aid alone, plus over 100 billion — 82 billion — plus 100 billion — that Finland’s exports will improve further? This logic doesn't work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u141	Madam President! Mr Tynkkynen said here that there were no calls on the electoral machines to ‘ready to accept the EU’s recovery package’ —not requested,no. No one could have known the corona was going to strike. It was also not asked ‘to prepare for the law’. No one asked. And yet we did. When the house is on fire and danger is imminent, action must be taken. Instead, where did I answer in the election machines? I replied that I promised to defend Finnish work and entrepreneurship, I promised to defend agriculture and Finnish clean food, I promised to defend the vitality and provinces of Finland as a whole — and that is what we are doing here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u142	At this point, Minister Tuppurainen, and three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u143	Thank you, Madam Speaker! And thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this fast and good debate. I do find it very interesting to listen to the views of the Finns and to the speeches of the representatives of Parliament on this matter. Perhaps there have been some strikes here, and those, Mr President, need to be corrected here that there will be no misunderstandings. The three points I shall try to focus on in this brief speech. Firstly, there was the argument that the Union, on the basis of the creation of this recovery instrument, would have become fundamentally different from what it was when we took a referendum on membership of the Union in the 1990s, and that it was now, as it were, a federal state — well, not now. This solution, which establishes this recovery instrument, goes just within the framework of the existing EU Treaties. This has been said many times, it has also been said in this Chamber, and this mandate has also been given to the Prime Minister by a large committee. This is based on the solidarity clause 122 in the Union's articles of the Treaty, which assumes that, for example, when a natural disaster strikes, Member States have a duty to help each other and on this recovery fund has been created. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] Secondly, it has been suggested, Mr President, that Finland somehow pays the violins and we are moving on to a debt of solidarity — well, at least not in this respect either. If we look a little more closely at the situation as regards this whole, where there is also this multi-annual, seven-year, EU budgetary framework and this recovery instrument, then in reality, even in the event of the Brexis and the rise in contributions for all, even in this situation, we managed to negotiate a result which in fact will improve the net contribution position of Finland slightly. We are, of course, still a net contributor, but there among the smaller net contributors, and this is good. And as far as the solidarity debt is concerned, this solution did not create any solidarity — on the contrary, at the initiative of Finland, the responsibilities of each Member State were described with exceptional precision. Each Member State is only responsible for its own contribution and is recorded as a double share of GDP. This is well known and no solidarity debt was created.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u150	And now we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u151	Mr President! Thank you very much to those who have taken the initiative. It's very important. The report on the sustainable growth programme in the referral debate on Tuesday is nothing more than an explanation of how the money recovered would be spent. The matter has already been prepared, although no decision has been taken on the recovery instruments. All of this is a sham and a theatre that wants to drive Finland into the federal state. It's where those who don't want to be Finns, they want to be federals. Things of this magnitude in a world that is so violently changing should not be reduced without being asked for the opinion of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to us on this issue, for example, from the Docent of Economics, Thomas Mali. Or listen to Matti Virén, Peter Nyberg, Vesa Kanniainen, Mikko Puhakkaa, Vesa Vitriälä, Pentti Pikkarai, Juha Tervala, Heikki Koskenkylä or Pauli Vahtera. They have all been very critical of the extermination of the recovery package as super-experts of the economy. Now let us listen to the mere federalists and grovel before the EU, which is ahead of the end, with notes in the eyes, as if the coming federal declaration would turn life here in the middle of the wolves into heaven. Mr President! There is much room for development in the management of the state and the people. We think we are living in a democracy, but today's representative democracy stumbles badly and looks more like a travesty of democracy. Democracy comes from the Greek word ‘democracy’and means democracy. Is that where democracy takes place, when an elected minority, one small party, decides to ruin our peat production, our forest industry and the people, for example, sit by and wonder why the two parties, which are much larger than that small party, are sitting in the opposition for nothing. In order to achieve democracy in all the big issues, we should listen to the opinion of the people, that is to say, we should hold a referendum. Today’s foxhole policy is an immoral war that seeks not to understand but to destroy rivals, and the sufferer is the whole nation. Representative democracy and the party system can only function properly in the service of the entire population. Mr President! Power should be shared in relation to election success. That would be fair and also perfectly possible. A dirty game should end and move on to a fair practice. The state must not be led in the direction desired by the minority, but by the majority of the population. The referendums also have a resounding effect, as the practice would prevent the nation from falling apart and splitting up. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call] Mr President! These initiatives should be dealt with by the committees as soon as possible and at least in the context of the Government's report on sustainable growth. At the same time, it would also be justified to consider my own legislative initiative, which also proposes a referendum on Finland's resignation from the European Union. I think it is extremely shameful and indeed a mockery of democracy if there is someone in this Chamber who believes that referendums should not be held.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u152	There is still one last point to be made within the time frame. — Mr Koskela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u153	Mr President! We Finns love Finland and Finns, so I would like to express my thanks to the authors and signatories of the citizens' initiative, which defends our independence. We can ask whether, in 2020, the EU will be the same Union that we joined in the referendum at the time. If the EU's recovery instrument of EUR 750 billion is adopted, the answer is clear: "No. “ Article 310 of the EU Treaty prohibits the EU from borrowing its own costs. This is complemented by Article 123, which prohibits the financing of Member States through the European Central Bank, and Article 125, which prohibits Member States from taking over the budgetary responsibility of others, such as creditors. Article 122 states that, in an emergency, individual countries could deviate from the agreement, but it is now being interpreted in a very broad and very questionable way. Justifiable questions can be asked about this subject in relation to the rule of law: is the Treaty now being violated, and how many points? At the same time, is our own constitution still being violated in Finland? Why do we want to transfer budgetary powers to the EU? Even the Marin government's own programme emphasises that each EU country has primary responsibility for its own economy. It also says that Finland considers it important that EU countries pursue responsible economic and fiscal policies that respect the EU's Stability and Growth Pact. Recording and implementation are now at odds. Mr President! The problem with the recovery package is compounded by the fact that the euro in the form of donations and loans from the recovery package is calculated 70% of the economic development and unemployment figures for 2015-2019, i.e. the economic figures before the pandemic. According to the legal services of the Council of the European Union, the recovery package does not conflict with EU agreements, but this position of the advisory body can rightly be called into question. There's Santa as the guard of the cabbage country. The fact that most of the euro is distributed on the basis of the economic development prior to the interest rate is already nullifying the interpretation of the exceptional circumstances of Article 122 and the opinion of the legal service. It is noteworthy that the Commission has also stated on its own website and on the Council's website until the end of May that the EU's activities are not financed by debt. So now they have turned their own coats as well. The EUR 750 billion recovery facility is being financed without clear conditions by countries with a negligible fiscal margin due to poor economic performance. It would also be possible for these countries to receive loan money, but they do not want it because there are always conditions attached to the loan. These countries will therefore continue to need help from other countries. In agreeing to this, the Union will continue to incur significant and long-term debts. Until now, Article 310 has prevented the emergence of debt at European level, which we would therefore now guarantee. In future, the only solution to the increased EU debt will be the EU's tax law, as I mentioned earlier in this Chamber. Everyone can ask whether the tax burden on Finns can be increased. Of course not. Then the only option remains to reduce the state budget, where social and pension expenditure is the largest expenditure item. At the end of the road, the recovery instrument is waiting for the end of our welfare state. The sacrifice of our fathers and our mothers for our country's constitution is a waste of time. The emergency funding package would cost EUR 6.6 billion and an estimated EUR 3.2 billion would be returned to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u156	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u157	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u158	Mr President! It was worth waiting so far to discuss once again the European Union and the EU recovery package negotiated there, which was negotiated by Prime Minister Sanna Marin during the summer and came out with the result that EUR 6 billion will be paid and EUR 3 billion will be recovered — an incredibly bad deal. Well, in order to get this through the people without the polls waving too much from one side to the other, unfortunately we have had to resort to completely incomprehensible explanations, and today, when we discussed this issue, they were heard in the queue. I Bongas some of them, and I would now like to comment on why they make no sense. Firstly, the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen of the Centre, whom I very much respect, spoke of the fact that this package of EU interest will be one-off. I am sure that Matti Vanhanen, who was the Prime Minister and various ministers and a long-standing representative of Parliament, will be able to smell what the various issues and projects are all about, and I cannot help but wonder why he has missed such an obvious point in this matter as the fact that this so-called one-off package actually creates the framework on how to make countries answer each other's debts in the future. This is not just an interpretation; such speeches have been used at the mouth of various European leaders. In Germany, for example, these have been heard from the demarcation leader, and it can be said that one-offness can already be thrown into a scrap heap at this point in the same way as the Greek 1 aid package was very soon thrown. This is the first time that we are really going to be responsible for the debts of other countries, and this will be a model for this, unfortunately, to continue to be the case in the future if this package is not brought down. That is why this citizens' initiative to hold a referendum on the EU recovery package should certainly be adopted by the people, because otherwise there will be no legitimacy. Well, then Kurvinen, the perusuvirs representative of the city centre, wanted to cram the Finns and so said that this recovery package is of enormous benefit to the provinces — that is, money comes from the sky, as Mr Arhinmäki of the Left Alliance has previously advertised to us here. But the reality is that it is indeed the EUR 6 billion we are paying there and only EUR 3 billion we are getting back, and therefore, whatever we can get back to use in rural areas, we would have had much more recovery to use in rural areas if we had paid directly rather than through the EU, which means half of that money is lost on the way. The explanations we have heard here are indeed very remarkable. We have to use quite a few squirms to get this package approved by the public. Mr President! Mr Kiljunen, on the other hand, spoke about the fact that, in principle, this package was already voted on at the time of Finland's accession to the European Union. This was probably the most inconceivable comment of the whole debate. The EU was by no means a Union of twenty years ago in which this idea of a debt union would have been adopted, and certainly the Finns would not have agreed to EU membership if this had been the subject of the vote. This is a completely new matter, it has never been put to the vote, and it would certainly be worth voting on now. Then, Mr Hassi of the Greens, you spoke about the fact that this referendum would block the timetable for this financial framework. Now I have to say that this is not a very strong argument that there is not necessarily time for something to be done now if we have to vote on it, whether people want it done or not. We cannot go and take money from others until we come to ask these people if we are allowed to take this money, and it does not help that we plead that ‘forgive,yyttons,yttons,I have to pay a friend 50 bucks,you have to give or else this guy can’t afford to spend 50 bucks,which should be used by him’. In other words, no timetable for the financial framework can be a reason for the lack of legitimacy of the people in this matter. Finally, the Minister for European Affairs, Mr Tuppurainen, spoke about how no solidarity debt was created here. This is precisely where we start to guarantee debts to other countries, and I remember Minister Tuppurainen talking last spring about the fact that there will be no joint debt. Since the joint debt component also came into this package, he said that, well, this will only be a one-off, and since it became one-off, it has been assured that it will certainly not be used again, but we have already heard the speeches that this will certainly be used again. And now, to top it all off, this circle closes to the fact that he again said that no solidarity debt is even coming. In other words, quite an explanation, and as a cherry on top of the cake, Minister Tuppurainen said today that this goes ahead of the interests of the country. How dare you say this, and even after he himself said in an interview with New Finland that... — Now help me, Mr Peltokangas, how did Minister Tuppurainen then say about promoting the interests of his own people, remember?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u161	Mr President! The citizens' initiative is always valuable and significant, and that is why I wanted to stay here in the Chamber and explain why I am not voting in favour of this proposal when it comes to voting in the Chamber. Article 53 of the Constitution identify the consultative referendum, but not the actual direct referendum, to which the initiative refers. We therefore have no constitutional basis for adopting a direct referendum, i.e. a change in the Constitution first, and it would require a majority of five-sixths if it were to be done urgently, or through two parliaments, and it would take some time. Apparently, this is why the Finns of Finland, as a whistle-blower, have either taken a citizens' initiative to support an advisory referendum with a proposal to change the law, or a bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u168	Mr President! It is good that citizens have the opportunity not only to vote but also to influence the policy pursued by Parliament and the government in the form of citizens' initiatives. Before the elections, the voters have only the programmes of the candidates' parties and the promises as a guide for their voting decisions. However, after the elections, things will not go the way they did in Strömsö, and the voter may feel that he has not necessarily received a response to the direction and voice of the policy he wants. This initiative is a good example of the fact that the people do not accept all the government's proposals, especially when it comes to their own future, the future of their children and grandchildren. So now the people have blown a whistle to break this game and demand the majority of the people’s decision to make such a big decision, with such a far - reaching impact. As has been said many times in this Chamber and in the referrals to many governments' proposals, by adopting the European Union's recovery package, Finland glues itself firmly to federal development and the loss of sovereignty in its monetary and economic policies, and therefore gives its approval to continuing transfers of income to poor economies. This will eventually lead to a decline in the well-being of one’s own country, it is quite clear — money when it still does not grow in trees, and loan money will not long breathe the economy. The money that is donated outside the borders is gone from within the borders, period. Mr President! As is clear from the explanatory statement of the initiative, this decision would cover the future of Finland for decades to come and bind future governments to the European Union's grip so firmly that none of them would survive without Finland finally losing its independence. That, of course, is not acceptable to the authors of this citizens' initiative and to the signatories. Indeed, the federal state of the European Union is the wet sleep of many parliamentary parties in the hope of remuneration posts. For I see no other explanation as to why the government and many parties want this debt hell so badly for their citizens. For more than 20 years, the role of the net contributor and the EU's legislative experience as a member of the Union tells us that we are not sitting on the closing tables but are playing nicely on the leash. From trade union to debt union in two decades — something is really wrong. Well, France is pushing for a common fiscal policy for the European Union. According to the German Minister for Finance, the recovery instrument marks the beginning of a financial union. The European Central Bank speaks openly about the establishment of a permanent common fiscal policy. The question arises as to the reality of our finance minister's life, because it is Europe's business to say that this will not be the last. According to the statement we have heard from our own Minister for Finance today, this is a unique one. Question: How, then, do we reject the next state of will in these major countries? There's no way. We have to do it now. Mr President! The citizens' initiative and the signatories know that a possible vote could also be positive for the EU policy promoted by the government. The purpose of this initiative is not to dispute whether the other policies pursued by the government are right or wrong, but to want the people to decide whether or not they will accept the folly that binds future generations to debt imprisonment. Mr President! As the recovery package is implemented, Finland’s total liabilities are expected to increase to up to EUR 13 billion. The citizens' initiative collected nearly 60,000 signatures of concerned citizens. If, for example, the debt package were: To the extent that such a commitment would be appropriate, the number of signatures would certainly be many times higher. I am truly appalled that the state media, which is run by tax banks, is ironing the overthrow of the fatherland of the cover picture politicians without informing the people of the real consequences of the decision. Shame on you! Federal development is completely silent on Yle. Finally, Mr President, I warmly support the citizens' initiative and I sincerely believe in the wisdom of the Finnish people if they can decide for themselves which solution is the right one for Finland. The government now either lets the people decide or beat their own people in the face with a wet rag. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u169	Mr President! When the citizens' initiative receives more than 50,000 signatures in four days, that means that the message is really important, which comes from the citizens. This citizens’ initiative was initiated by the Peruvian youth, and it quickly received over 50,000 signatures. The citizens' initiative under discussion is extremely topical and is a burning issue. Korona has struck Europe and Finland's economy right behind us, and its effects are reflected in the long future. It's time to make a choice. Finland must decide on its European policy. The EU has undergone a huge transformation since Finland joined the sled at the end of the last millennium. It was then that the voters were promised economic stability and cheaper food bags and the cheapest cars, but time has shown us that these promises have not come true. In practice, the Member States that have better managed their affairs through the expansion of joint responsibilities have increasingly been forced to rescue those Member States that are in trouble. It is obvious that this means more risks and uncertainty for Finland. The gap between the northern and southern euro area has ruptured. Furthermore, with the enlargement of the Union, the number of so-called net beneficiaries has increased and the number of contributors has increased. I think it is time for the Finnish Government to listen to the opinion of the people when defining a European policy. Do Finns really want to be part of a recovery package with very long-term effects? The referendum is supported by the fact that over the years the EU has abandoned its old fundamental principles — no bail-out. Open your eyes in that government now. This is a huge, permanent change of the European Union, a large-scale transfer of income, and who knows what the near future will bring. The recovery package is estimated to result in net direct losses of more than EUR 3 billion to Finnish taxpayers. In addition, Finland's total liabilities will rise by throwing over EUR 10 billion. It's getting pretty wild for a country this small. With the euro area economy in turmoil, the increase in Finland's membership fees seems inevitable, and who knows, even if the EU starts levying taxes to fill its cash deficit. Will we continue with our traditional European policy and accept everything and pay the bills nicely as they pop up? Is the way of the endless net contributor what the Finnish voters have earned? Yes, we must now dare to ask the people for their opinion on the big issues and then take decisions on the basis of them. I absolutely support the citizens' initiative' proposal to hold a referendum on the recovery package. Mr President! The question in the citizens' initiative is whether Finland wants to be part of the recovery package. This is not about EU separation or currency. In its speeches, the government wants to change the substance of the citizens' initiative and confuse it with things that are not at issue. What has also been discussed here this evening is that this recovery package is important for saving exports. There are no such calculations in reality — which would fully support this point. It is wishful thinking, these figures are nowhere to be presented. Mr President! I would like to draw attention to a few more points. Here in the Chamber, including in the previous days, there has been such an opinion and ideas, especially through the Centre Party, that the Finns of Peru are somehow an anti-agricultural party or an anti-rural party. This is not the case at any point. This is already proven by the fact that, in the case of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, there are actually three representatives from Finland. You might want to take a look at the work of the committee. The committee is working on a basic Finnish policy there, and it is easy to see who is on the rural side, which party, who is on the agricultural side, the forestry side. This peat, in particular, is a good example of this, but there are a million other things. And yet, when the Central Party talks about the transitional situation so that it became a great decision, there will be more money for agriculture, it is a fact that this money is not an extra money, it will be distributed over the entire period of this financial framework for many years. It is not an extra money, so that here too very incorrect information has been shared. Finally, Mr President, Mr Tynkkynen and Mr Peltokangas explained very well why the referendum should be held on this subject — the basis for it — and this one-off nature. True Finns do not believe that this will be a one-off event if we go into this funding system. So, overall, a very good citizens' initiative, I support it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u170	Mr President! Indeed, in this debate, there have been a lot of rather unspeakable arguments, the truth of which is, let me say, frail. Ministers Henriksson, Vanhanen and Tuppurainen have already corrected some of the arguments put forward here and have also put this EU stimulus package into perspective. But first, the referendum. I believe that it is justified to hold referendums when it comes to a major change of a permanent nature. This was the case, for example, with Finland's accession to the EU, and it can also be regarded as such when the Prohibition Act was repealed. On the other hand, I find it quite inappropriate to hold referendums on day-to-day and annual matters. For example, although the idea of holding an annual vote on the level of alcohol taxation does not make sense at all. For the Greens, it is important that the EU remains operational and is able to deal with situations that arise even when these situations are such that they cannot be predicted in advance. If someone bothers to read the debate that took place in Parliament when Finland joined the EU, you will notice that, for example, there were a lot of fears in that debate that have not come true. One of the things I remember is that the Germans come and buy all the beaches in Finland. Another fear was that EU membership with some miracle of automation would force Finland to join NATO. A little similar thought has also been thrown in this debate. If it were actually decided that this EU recovery package, Finland's participation in it, would be a referendum, for reasons of timetable, it would mean that the final approval of the EU's multiannual financial framework with which the recovery package is part of the same package would go beyond the turn of the year. And that would mean that, when this current financial framework ends at the end of the year, next year the EU would then live on a sort of skeleton budget, which would only have agricultural aid under the old financial framework, the salaries of officials and the money for international action in the EU. For example, all research funding would be cut off, all regional development funds would be cut apart from the projects already under way. Similarly, Finland would lose the EUR 400 plus 100 million that we received as a national envelope, i.e. special support, support over normal rules, rural development and special support for sparsely populated areas in northern and eastern Finland. All this would be lost at least next year if the decision-making of this EU multiannual financial framework and recovery package were postponed for more than a year. This is an ashtray of claims that the EU will somehow change. However, the EU Treaty does not change. The decision-making order is unchanged. There are politicians in some countries who have suggested that such packages of recovery should be made permanent, but their opinion on this issue is not resolved. This decision will require the unanimity of all the Member States, both now and in the future, if there are future situations in which such a matter will then become topical. Similar exaggerating talk has been heard about taxes. It is not a new issue for the EU to levy taxes. Throughout Finland's membership of the EU, part of the revenue from VAT has gone to the EU membership fee. Tax decisions can only be taken unanimously. We do not yet know whether, for example, a decision is being taken on the EU's carbon tariff, which I believe the Finns of Peru have supported on many occasions. In other words, if, for example, imports of steel into the EU come from countries where climate emissions are not subject to the same price as in Europe, it could, as it were, be offset by a carbon tariff. Recovery by national decisions is a completely absurd idea, but if the EU unanimously decides to do it and does it in a way that does not fight the rules of the World Trade Organisation, the EU will be able to do it and it will not tighten our taxation. Similarly, a tax that would bring back online companies whose business has also meant their relocation to the net cannot be corrected by the nation state, but the EU may be able to do something about it. I think that would make sense. We do not yet know whether there will be a unanimous decision in the EU to do this. But I find it completely misleading to describe such opportunities as some kind of scary boogeyman. For the Greens, it is important that the lion's share of the money that the EU as a whole and also Finland will receive in this recovery package be used to solve a crisis that is even bigger and more serious than the corona crisis, namely the climate crisis, to build a sustainable future. Mr President! Finally. When the Finns of Finland very often bark at other countries that they do not comply with the rules, I find it very strange that, in the large parliamentary committee, the Finns of Finland disagreed with the decision, in the context of this multiannual financial framework and the recovery package, that only a country can receive EU money that complies with the EU's basic rules on the rule of law and the free press. In other words, countries where the decisions of the courts and politicians decide what the press can write and what the media can tell, which violate such rules of law, would not be able to receive EU funding in the future. In my opinion, the fact that the Finns of Finland are bound by this rule of law
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u171	Mr President! I think all the discussion here is valuable. And as such, although I personally do not believe that the referendum on the EU recovery package, the government's proposal, now I am waiting for this Chamber, I see it as important that there should be a debate on certain issues and all the issues that have been the subject of a citizens' initiative. And certainly, since the summer, many have also been waiting for the EU recovery package to be carried out in greater detail in Parliament. Mr Hassi, chairman of the large committee, gave a good and worthy speech here. The big committee deals with our EU issues and is, of course, most familiar with these EU issues. However, the public has also been waiting this autumn for a debate on these issues in Parliament, and in that sense I thought that even with its citizens' initiative, this debate is important here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u172	Mr President! He took over a representative. In Mr Hassi's speech just now, when you said that if the recovery package were not implemented, the European Union's financial framework would be cut off and Finland would lose subsidies, such as agricultural subsidies and so on. So is this normal EU funding now based on this stimulus package? I'm surprised. So this isn't a corona resuscitation device? Well, it has been discovered that if money, its own money, were to come back here now, then the government has already earmarked 1.5 billion for its climate rage. Special action in the case of a corona resuscitation package. Well, if that is the case, then it can be said that there is an unstable dimness, and this is the recovery package, is it now additional funding for the green ideology, or what is it? I don't approve of this. I could also say that the European Union itself does not follow its own rules. This cannot be overemphasized. There is much talk in this Chamber that the Finns of Peru and the Finns of Peru are saying this. The people of Peru are very concerned that the European Union is violating its own rules. How, as politicians, can we trust a dim person who does this? Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that it is right for the people to stand by while the dim breaks their own rules and then impose their debts on us? We have even heard here today about the ministerial box that if we do not accept this, then we will have it and the sanctions. Are we being blackmailed? Or are we an independent people who can decide for themselves? It seems that at least the government parties do not want to let Finns decide on their own future at this point. I am very concerned that there is applause in this Chamber for future generations being put into the yoke of such a debt imprisonment package. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u173	Mr President! This autumn, Parliament held a debate on this package. It took place immediately during the second September part-session when the Prime Minister informed Parliament of this issue. Among other things, it went through very thoroughly the fact that the package agreed at the EU Summit in July includes the EU's financial framework for the next seven years — the current financial framework will end at the end of this year. And as part of the outcome of the negotiations, there is agreement on this EU recovery package, in which Finland got its key demands through and the clarifications required by Finland, among other things, on what at worst can then be the responsibility of an individual country for this loan to the EU, and indeed the Prime Minister went through them in detail. And yet again, Mr President, I would like to comment on the argument that the EU's own rules are now being violated. This argument is also very often made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u178	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u179	Mr President! In this bill, signed by the Finns of Finland, it is proposed to hold an advisory referendum on whether Finland should participate in the European Union's recovery instrument, i.e. the huge redistribution of hundreds of billions of taxpayers' money. Finland would participate in the so-called recovery instrument by providing around EUR 6.4 billion in the package, and for this, it would receive more than EUR 3 billion in the package. I mean, more than half would be in the jacket. We wonder that only the Finns of Peru are interested in the opinion of the people on such a big issue. This is by far the biggest economic and legal issue in the whole period and perhaps even over a longer period of time. According to a survey carried out by a U.S. Finn, 52 per cent of Finns object to the idea that Finland should participate in a support package accumulated under the guise of a corona. Only about 26% of respondents accept the idea. Mr President! As I said, the aid package is a debt union under the guise of the corona, which aims to save the inefficient euro and the distressed banks of southern and central Europe. In addition, the aim of the package is to give the EU significant power over the Member States. This objective is even more important in the long term than money itself. Debt imprisonment would give the EU the right to tax, and this would deepen the federal state in a direction in which we do not want to be involved. The EU's tax law would be a further violation of Finland's sovereignty. The Union’s debt should be paid off with increased membership fees and possible new own resources. As part of the repayment of the loan taken out by the Commission, the Commission highlights the possibility of creating new own resources. According to the Commission, these could include, for example, new resources based on the emissions trading scheme, a customs mechanism for CO2 emissions and own resources based on the activities of large companies. A new digital tax could also be introduced. And that's not all. This aid package violates the EU's common rules of play. In practice — and now, government, do not try to lie to yourself — this is a solidarity debt which is prohibited by the EU’s own rules. Pursuant to Article 125 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, neither the Union nor its Member State shall be liable or assume the commitments of central governments, regional or local authorities or other authorities, other bodies governed by public law or public undertakings of another Member State. The legal basis for the package is therefore at least questionable, at the very least. Of course, the EU itself interprets the rules in the way it wants when it does not have to ask anyone else. Although Prime Minister Marin claims this joint debt once and for all — hopefully no one in this Chamber is so naive as to think it is unique — for example, Mr Marin’s colleague, Mr Olaf Scholz, the German Minister of Finance, says that the so-called recovery package is a long-term instrument for the EU’s economic policy and not a mere short-term stimulus. The quote begins: ‘A real step towards the recovery fund for Germany and Europe cannot be understood as a resuscitation. According to the German Minister for Finance, the common debt accepted by the EU countries reflects a fundamental change, perhaps even the biggest change in the single currency after the introduction of the euro. — That is the temporary and unique one for you. Mr President! The proposals are therefore not a minor, revision-like development of the Union's remit, which could be regarded as irrelevant to Finland's sovereignty. This is a situation which could not be foreseen in Finland when the Treaties were ratified, and therefore a clear transfer of significant powers to the EU within the meaning of Article 94(2) of the Constitution. The same applies to the Commission's proposal that part of the EUR 750 billion loan taken out by the Union could be repaid by new EU taxes, such as digital tax and carbon tax. The Social Democrats, the Centre and other left-wing parties are probably excited about these new taxes, but we patriots and representatives of the interests of Finns are not. Indeed, common taxes would deepen the integration of the Member States in a way that would transform the Union into a closer economic union and lead it towards a federal state. Mr President! As can be said of all the above, the EU's huge package of support would change the Union's key principles. The Union would start to finance its activities as a debt, and its debt burden would increase within a short period of time to a level that would even be impossible to manage within the Union's current income structure. If the Commission's proposals were implemented, they would also change the Union's fundamental principles of its operation. The recovery instrument would further increase Finland’s financial commitments and liabilities for debts of other Member States and would also pose a significant risk of financial losses. Given the importance of the matter, it is justified to hold an advisory referendum on whether Finland should contribute to the financing of the recovery instrument. The people must be able to express their opinion on this matter, and the government must give the Finnish people the opportunity to do so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u180	Mr President! We Finns continue to love Finland and Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u183	Mr President! As President Vehviläinen said earlier in his speech, this bill and the citizens' initiative will be dealt with in the same debate, because they are dealing with the same issue. That is why I would like to thank both those who have raised the issue, Mr Antikai, who made this EU recovery package a legislative initiative, and I would also like to warmly thank the citizens' initiative makers, Miko Bergbom of Peruvian Youth, Laura Jokela, Joakim Vigelius, Ville Muulu and Secretary-General Santeri Eskola, and the entire Government of Peruvian Youth. You have done an enormous job in bringing this recovery package here through the citizens' initiative, and I can promise you that in the future many of you, like myself and Mr Antikainen, will come here in this Chamber to speak on this matter. So it is wonderful that these citizens' initiatives are being taken, and they are being dealt with. Today is a historic day. Indeed, now we are talking about holding a referendum on this EU recovery package. But I cannot help but wonder that the person, the Prime Minister of Finland, Sanna Marin, who was here to negotiate this matter in Brussels, is not here on the spot to listen to or answer questions when the citizens themselves have raised this issue. Something about this is indicated by the fact that the citizens' initiative, which requires a referendum, has been named in four days — 50,000 names in four days — and has been cut off so that this issue can be dealt with here in Parliament before the government itself leaves for this package to be dealt with. Nevertheless, I cannot help but wonder that this week we have already dealt with the content of this EU recovery package here in Parliament, where it would start to be distributed, before the citizens' citizens' initiative on whether this package can even be adopted has been discussed here. I can't believe this. In addition to the fact that we have just had a debate on this issue, the representatives of the government parties — and I could also mention the majority — were absent from this debate. Only a few representatives were present, and it shows how few MPs here from other parties are interested in discussing what the Finnish tax money is being spent on. Mr President! The reality is that we are paying it EUR 6 billion to the EU and getting back EUR 3 billion. Why are we talking about this being a useful stimulus for Finland? Why would we not then prefer to spend the entire 6 billion on resuscitation directly to Finnish companies, rural areas and so on? At the time of the 2019 elections, there was no debate as to whether citizens would be prepared to accept such aid packages, which would be financed by debt, which would completely change the nature of the EU and turn it into a debt union that the EU cannot be and which the Treaties deny. This is not the kind of debate we had in the election. There were no such questions on the electoral machines that they would have enabled the citizens to elect representatives who would represent their position. That is why it is so confusing that, in this Chamber, representatives of the government parties and ministers have said that we do not need a referendum here because we represent the people. But these issues were never dealt with in elections, not in exams, not in electoral machines or in party programmes, because they could not, because they were not on the agenda and they were not known. That is why a system of citizens' initiatives has been created in Finland. We have decided to make Finland a democracy 2.0. We are also giving citizens the opportunity to raise to the agenda the issues that are not included in the government programme and which could never even be known what the representatives will think when they come to the agenda, and that is exactly what this corona package is about. That is why I cannot help but marvel at these arguments that it is said in such a way that we represent the people here when the people have never voted for these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u186	Mr President! A few days ago Professor Anu Kantola wrote in Helsingin Sanomat that the willingness of people with good income and basic Finns to pay taxes seems weak. The result is a recent survey of the defendant's willingness to pay more taxes in order to deal with the decline caused by the corona virus to the state economy. The professor wondered whether the well-earned and basic Finns were suffering from a lack of solidarity. Well, the demands of the people, such as the initiative to organise a referendum on the EU recovery package, provide a more credible and far more serious explanation for that survey. The Finns have historically been ready for almost any sacrifice, as long as the need and measures have been perceived to be in the interests and justice of the nation. It's the moral backbone of the nation's leaders. As long as it lasts, the people will follow and pay the high taxes. In the preparations and negotiations for Finland's recovery package, the moral backbone of our country's government was seriously broken. The legal basis of the EU, the use of the government's negotiating mandate, the use of the money — at least all of it was played out and at least underestimated the intelligence of the citizens. When the leaders of the nation do not lead but play, it has serious consequences. For example, paying taxes is no longer good because there is no credit for the right use of money. What is the motive for sacrificing the public's confidence because of this EU stimulus package? Indeed, the recent citizens’ initiative collected the necessary 50,000 signatures in less than four days. This should send a serious message to the government that the public's sense of justice has been violated and that they should be asked about such a major change in the nature and functioning of the EU. The government would make a dramatic mistake by removing the demands of the referendum. The consideration of the citizens' initiative and the bill now measures whether the moral backbone of the government has been completely broken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u187	Mr President! Yes, here we are dealing with citizens' initiatives and legislative initiatives relating to the referendum. There is not a single minister present, everyone slipped away while for a moment listening to the facts. It has also been heard from the left side of the House that when discussing these issues, we are moving away from the European Union. If you have the view that the people can say what they want to say and that they want to do so, are you, then, alone, going to be left in the European Union? In my opinion, only the people know what is best for Finland. In this country for the time being, and hopefully in the future too, you, my dear Finnish people, will be the last word, not run away from the skimpy ministers. That should be the case. Mr President! Finland would be taking another step closer to the European federal state if it accepted the recovery instrument and the planned transfer of 750 billion to support the countries of the European Union which are failing to manage their economies. And this would not be the only income transfer, but the cycle would continue as long as money from the Member States of the Union is made to grow up under what excuse, and they dare. Sometimes you also have to make a decision — that is, too much — and the time for that decision is now. Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. Antikainen's bill on the organisation of an advisory referendum on Finland's participation in the European Union's recovery instrument. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u188	Mr President! We are now dealing with a legislative initiative on whether a referendum will be held on the recovery fund in the EU. In other words, the bill asks whether Finland should participate in the European Union's recovery instrument. The first signatory of the bill is Mr Antikainen, and he presented this bill very thoroughly, and it contains the names of the representatives of the People's Republic of Finland. I am very much in favour of this initiative. This recovery fund is therefore a very principled decision. Where is the EU going? Accepting the Recovery Fund would mean a significant increase in Finland’s financial responsibility for the Recovery Facility. So we would be becoming paying and paying women with an even greater contribution to the so-called common good in the EU. And we're talking about billions of dollars, huge sums of money. I, too, am surprised that there are no more members of the government parties in the Chamber. There are quite a lot of Finns in Peru. But thank you now to these members of the government parties who are now afraid to be here anyway. [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne : RepresentativeElooma,I note that we have rules to listen to about our own working room. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u193	Thank you. — There is still time for one speech within the agreed time limit. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u194	Mr President! This bill as such must be supported on the same basis as that citizens' initiative that was previously discussed. In the course of the debate there has also been further justification for the need for such a referendum. We obviously have quite a democratic deficit in this country, when the Prime Minister first publicly admits that Parliament has not even made a decision to go into this recovery package through a decision on own resources, and yet even this week the government has already brought in a report of more than 60 pages on where the money is being spent, which has not even been decided to obtain. In other words, a referendum would now be needed. I do not think that it is appropriate to be dishonest or even intellectually dishonest about these matters. The EU has always found ways of circumventing its own treaties and laws, as it did in this context too. In the EU, we will find the means. When Mr Hassi said earlier in this debate that in 94 there was intimidation, those intimidations have now become a reality, and I am afraid that what is now called intimidation will later become a full reality. I would like to make that clear once again that, even if we are told that we can get anything from the EU, whether it is in this package or through the multiannual financial framework or any other instrument, all that money is half-eaten. The Finns pay more money there than they get, and then if some of the pieces fall into subsidies for us, it is not a triumph, it is a defeat. When Mr Kurvinen said earlier that it was a very good result of the negotiations, that would probably mean paying a little less than originally needed to be paid, but still having to pay a lot more. The Centre relies more on the EU than on the representatives of the Finnish Parliament. The decay is quite deep in this pattern. Then this export industry. It is always said that we would benefit from this for the Finnish export industry when this stimulus package came and the economies of the countries would recover. However, the example of Ponsse, which produces forest machines, was now used. I wonder how important Italy is to export forest machinery. I am not aware that Italy is a huge forest industry. I would use the term ‘punching’ for this revival to give money to others: we pay a large amount of money to others to make their economy more comfortable,and we hope that we will be able to use our products. I could end my speech with an anecdoted discussion with an expert in the field. When I asked him whether this stimulus package would lead the EU towards a federal state, he said that it would not. I do not know whether the answer should be satisfied, because his argument was that, in general, the federal state is not so lax as to deal with these issues, that the Länder are not responsible to this extent for each other's debts as the EU Member States. What do you think of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u195	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u196	We will now resume the debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u197	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 39/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u198	Mr President! With regard to this government proposal and the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, it must be said that, in the majority of cases, these reforms described by the government's proposal are necessary, and it is extremely important that the barriers to treatment are removed and that, indeed, equality in health care is improved. But there are a number of points which, in any case, will now have to be considered, and perhaps the first is the financial basis for this proposal. Although it is said here that the purpose is to compensate for the growing need for these services and, of course, for the municipalities through state contributions, of the amount set aside for this, 45 million for the coming year, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has presented calculations stating that this amount is not sufficient, but at least 58 million would be this whole. Perhaps someone in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health could shed some light on the way in which this calculation of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities was then taken into account in this committee's report. Did it become some kind of entry that we should ensure that the municipalities do not increase these costs? Of course, now this corona period is another factor, and by the fact that services are free of charge, the need for services may increase somewhat, but, above all, I now think that this maintenance debt has accumulated enough to ensure that these services will certainly be asked more and more. And then, of course, we must take into account the way the change in carer size affects the adequacy of the staff, as the need for services increases simultaneously, both in 24-hour service housing and in basic health care. The guarantee of access to urgent health services is, of course, one that will certainly further tighten the demands of these providers, and this raises concerns as to whether all these points have been taken into account in this proposal. Well, then, another thing that is, of course, quite gratifying is that, for children, this free healthcare is carried out in the case of carers. I recall that the last time we had a social welfare performance here last season, I think it would have been all about the health care of children and young people, but this has now been made free of charge — an important issue for you. Perhaps, last but not least, I hope that clarification will also be given to these criteria for the payment of long-term improved service housing and to the amount that has also been set aside as a means of use, because there is a great deal here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u199	Mr President! This change in the customer fee law has been much expected in the field and was finally processed — good. It is a good direction on the road to reasonable customer charges, but there are still a number of points left behind, which will require further revision and also a comprehensive reform of the entire customer fee law. The Coalition Party has objected to this and I am raising the points that we drew attention to in committee and in our opposition. First of all, the municipal effects of this Act on customer fees: In the presentation, it is estimated that the municipalities' customer income will decrease by a total of EUR 45 million, but as was also seen in the previous speech, however, these expenses have been estimated by the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities at a much higher level. In other words, these changes reduce the income of municipalities while the need for services increases. In general, when legal changes are made, then the municipalities should be compensated for the expenses incurred by the new bill, and now this has not been done. In committee, we voted on this issue to fully compensate municipalities for these costs, but the government parties were opposed to such an increase. Well, children's free health care in this proposal has been extended to special medical clinic visits, but unfortunately it lacks a lot of other things, such as hospital fees and therapy visits, especially in families with a sick child, a long-term sick child or several children. In the previous one, In the Sipilä Government's proposal, the children's freedom of charge concerned all these services and it would have been desirable that it could have been accepted, but it was not accepted. Children's free health services would improve the equality of children and, of course, in the case of low incomes in particular, would reduce the burden of illness. I would like to point out that even a middle-income family, if a child suddenly falls ill, has to visit the hospital, have to be indoors and have plenty of visits, the financial situation of the family is difficult and this, together with all other expenditures, increases the poverty of families with children and the financial distress of families with children. Well, monitoring the ceiling from the customer to the responsibility of society would of course be important. We have a lot of older people and people who find it difficult to follow, to keep track of when that ceiling will be full, and it would be reasonable for these to go automatically and then to be notified when it has been fulfilled, when the customer would know it, but it will remain missing in this proposal. Well, there are other issues here, for example, which are left for the elderly to use in enhanced service housing. In the performance it is only EUR 164 per month, and it is a small amount, considering that there are often many sick elderly people who are in 24-hour care and who have to pay for this amount of money for medicines, pay for glasses, pay for clothes, pay for everything that is not in the bed, care, food. In other words, we are going to have to deal with the problems of living, and that will cause more bureaucracy, more administrative work, and that would have meant that they will go to the same amount, which would have been simpler to increase this margin of use. We have also tabled a proposal to increase this scope of use, as well as a proposal to extend the free movement of children's health services. In other words, we have two proposals for amendments to the articles in relation to this objection and as a statement that ‘the preparation for the transfer of the payment cap to the service provider’s responsibility will require a delay’.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u200	Mr President, värderade talman! Regeringens förslag till ändringar i lagen om klientavgifter inom social- och älsovården innehåller många glädjande och goda förbättringar. Trots att vi behöver en helhetsreform av avgifterna är det fint att många avgiftskategorier nu ses över eller slopas helt och hållet. Det omstridda avgiftstaket kommer i och med detta förslag att omfattas av flera nödvändiga tjänster: oika former av terapi, tillfällig hemsjukvård och hemsjukhusvård med tillhörande distantjänster och i synerhet den viktiga mon- och tandvården. Social- och älsovårdsutskottet tilfogade dock i sitt betankande en kläm om att ansvaret över uppföljningen av avgifter som omfattas av av avgiftstaket borde flyttas över från kliente till myndigheterna. Det är också viktigt att vi nu kan besluta om att göra flera tjänster helt avgiftsfria, som till exempel polikliivgifterna för barn under 18 år och sjukskottarmottagningar inom primärvården. I den commande heletsreformen anser jag det dock viktigt att all vård av barn blir avgiftsfri. Regeringens förslag till reform av lagen om klientavgifter inom social- och älsovården är i det stora hela ett stort steg mot en rättvisare social- och älsovård.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u201	Mr President! Representative Laiho made a good and comprehensive speech and at the same time opened up the shortcomings of this government's proposal. The aim of the reform of increased equality in health and the removal of treatment barriers is a good and important direction, but the need for overall reform does not disappear with this government proposal. Representative Laiho already stressed the role of children and, as the protests made by the people of the Coalition Party well state, the free provision of services is important, particularly from the point of view of promoting equality between underage children. Equal access to health services must be ensured for every child and young person regardless of the family’s livelihood. At the same time, we can prevent the emergence of bigger problems. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u202	Mr President! It is also worth highlighting the positive issues and improvements that this reform of the Customer Fees Act will bring to us, especially the extension of the free provision of children's services and the freedom of payment in nurse's receptions. In particular, we in the Left like the expansion of the ceiling in oral health care, the recognition of payments for income support and the clarification of payments for long-term care, and of course it also needs a steering effect in the direction of municipalities. The need for further development of customer fees exists and is sufficient, but when we think about this whole, we also need to be able to assess which future reforms are also sustainable. In line with the Left Alliance's line, we see that the free provision of basic social and health services should be extended with the aim of fully free services at the basic level, including the abolition of health centre charges, and also greater freedom of charge for substance abuse services. Furthermore, of course, we have long been striving for the total consolidation of the ceilings. Unfortunately, current payments impose an unreasonable burden on both small and many middle-income families, and it does not make sense for a large part of them to end up in enforcement. In the end, a large part of the payments are also paid for income support, or money is transferred from one public pocket to another. All in all, it would be appropriate to undertake an analysis of this extension of the freedom of payment, which is a large, relevant one, in particular, in the fact that, according to the proposed Article 5 of the Act on customer fees, the receptions of outpatient care are free of charge for all age groups when they are currently invoiced to adults. Quite a lot of feedback has come from the fact that the first threshold is not exceeded, which means that even if the situation is sometimes quite critical but not life-threatening, it will not be possible to go to the nursing home. When there is no money, then leave out of it, thinking about saving, and for society it is not saving, but increasing costs. The main reduction in the contribution is the proposal that the research and treatment provided by the clinic be free of charge for persons under 18 years of age. Then I would like to draw attention to the fact that the committee has made an excellent amendment to the articles relating to maternity clinic visits by mothers who use drugs. The committee proposes a new paragraph 1d of Section 5 of the Consumer Fees Act on the basis of which no customer fee is charged for these clinic visits. In this case, any monitoring of a pregnant person in special care is free of charge, regardless of the municipality of residence and the hospital district. This is an important point, particularly from the point of view of unborn children, who are completely innocent of alcohol consumption by their parents and, in this case, especially the mother. It has a rather high cost, which means that for economic reasons there is even more pressure for substance abuse mothers not to go into studies and inspections. With regard to the changes in the ceiling, we must ensure that, for example, the extension of the ceiling to the oral health care side does not result in the number of patients — the number of patients may increase, because it is good that people get treatment — that there is a delay in receiving treatment that is harmful to health, i.e. that resources must be monitored. The committee has taken up a statement in which Parliament requires that the Government also undertake to investigate the transfer from the customer to the authority of the responsibility for monitoring the ceiling. This is a regular feedback that ordinary people in matt and majami will not be able to keep up with this follow-up and it will be challenging. In this respect, it is important for the committee to note that, in the context of the overall reform, the possibility of monitoring customer fees rather than the calendar year should be clarified on a regular basis over a period of 12 months and the ceiling should be amortised in such a way as to avoid a high burden of payment at the beginning of the monitoring period. According to the proposal, the costs of long-term care will in future be determined on the basis of the principles as consistent as possible with long-term institutional care for persons in enhanced service housing under the Social Welfare Act. This is also a question that has become very much public messages, and I am very pleased that it is now being corrected. Of course, thanks also to Parliament and the committee for the fact that we are now jointly calling for the Government to take measures to clarify the difference between enhanced service housing and other service housing and to clarify the regulation of the need for 24-hour care and care of the customer, so that these practices are truly consistent. The committee has considered it necessary to train and instruct municipalities and joint municipal authorities in the application of the rules on reasonable customer charges in order to ensure equal treatment of customers in different municipalities and to reduce the actual use of income support. With regard to the levying of charges, I would like to say that the new Article 2a of the Act on customer fees is proposed. does not prevent the municipality from using external service providers for the technical invoicing and recovery of customer charges. We in the Left Alliance would still have been able to ban these transfers of customer fees to private recovery companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u203	Mr President! It's a good thing that it's moving forward in terms of customer fees. At the very beginning, I would like to support this representative. The objection made by Laiho and the proposed amendment to the article, which therefore proposes that children's health care be free of charge. Above all, in Finland, we have reasonably good health care when we get there. And that is perhaps even more reason why many families with children in Finland, for example, end up taking out private health insurance. It is very difficult to get into health care, and families want to make sure that if anything small comes along, as if on a low threshold, you get the time and check out if something is wrong. And that is why, of course, it is desirable that in future, in addition to these matters of payment, greater attention should be paid to this issue. And unfortunately, I myself am concerned that the forthcoming reform of social welfare and health care will not bring any relief to this issue, at least not here in the capital region, where the problem is very serious, and of course not just for children, but for all ages. In Finland, preventive health care is also the one where we are not so good. The aim, of course, should be to be able to support and encourage people in various ways so that their ability to function will be better and the need for healthcare to replace it will be reduced. For example, exercise plays a very important role in this. Mr President! In other respects, the government's proposal as such is to be welcomed, but I really do think that the problems of health care in Finland are much more significant in terms of access to treatment than in these payments. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u204	Mr President! This is an important issue. I will look at it more as a whole. After all, this includes a huge number of details because we have so many different healthcare and social care charges in place. The first historical detail not directly related to this bill: When the Finnish Public Health Act came into force on 1 April 1972, it set the goal of free medical services. At that point, they were not free of charge, but the price of a medical visit to the health center was $3, but in 1981 the medical clinics were free of charge. But then, in 1993, a deep economic recession, the medical visit fee was reinstated and, in practice, it has come to stay. Some large cities have made a decision, including: Helsinki in 2013 that no fee will be charged for receiving a health centre doctor. So this is just one detail now, but I wanted to point it out here. After all, this is a broader issue of social and health care payments overall. Finland differs from many similar countries in that we have a very high citizen's ownership of social welfare and health care payments. I am going to give you a few chapters here, mainly on health care. On the basis of OECD statistics received just a month ago, which examined the share of health expenditure in the total national economy, in Finland it was 9 per cent of GDP, in Sweden the corresponding percentage was 10.9%, in Norway 10.0, in Denmark 10.1, or in Finland this share of GDP is lower. But even more important is that in Finland, 77 per cent of these health expenditure is covered by tax. The corresponding figure for Sweden is 85 %, for Norway 85 %, for Denmark 84 %, for Iceland 82 % and even for the USA 84 %, taking into account compulsory insurance premiums. In other words, in Finland, citizens pay a considerably higher share of health care funding than is usually paid in the countries to which we can be compared. But now to go to this very bill: Here the basis for payment that we are now making changes to may have been somewhat overlooked. All in all, the social and health care expenditure of our municipalities and joint municipal boards currently amounts to EUR 19.9 billion. Of this, EUR 1.4 billion is collected, which is quite precisely 7% — that is, 1.4 billion is the total amount of payments. It is roughly divided into three groups: The majority, EUR 915 million of the EUR 1.4 billion, are income-related contributions — especially for long-term care, both for long-term institutional care and for continuous home care. Oral health care payments amount to EUR 124 million. And then the other equal payments amount to 389 million — it includes, among other things, the health centre doctor’s visit fees and some other charges, the hospital clinic fees. This will then be EUR 1.4 billion. Well, now we are making changes to these payments and to this sum of payments of EUR 45 million. Even if it is 50 million or just over 50 million, as has been said here in the speeches, it is 3% of it. So the current payment is 1.4 billion. After that, when we expand the free-of-charge rate and extend the number of payments that will be subject to the cap, it will cost society between EUR 45 million and EUR 50 million, and then the citizens will be relieved with this equivalent amount. So that's 3% of this. Now someone might think that with this speech I am underestimating the importance of this reform. No, I won't. This is very significant for some categories of customers and patients for the reasons that have been raised here, especially for families with children, oral health care clients, and especially for those who use several different services during the year when they become subject to a cap. But I am not going to go through any of those specific payments myself, but I wanted to give this overall picture of what this is all about. In the right direction, a very important reform, but all in all, in the light of how much we usually pay for these services themselves, ‘outofpocket’, as is said in the English language, from our own pocket, this is a rather short-term reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u205	President! Everyone in this country must have the right to receive social and health care services when they are needed. The lack of money should never hinder access to care, and Finns should not be disadvantaged depending on the municipality or district in which they live. At present, however, there have been significant differences in the level of fees in relation to customer fees and the freeness of services, particularly between municipalities and hospital districts. It is therefore important that the reform of the Consumer Payments Act now being implemented and now being discussed here is an important step in the right direction. It's not perfect, but it's only part-step. This will increase the number of free-of-charge services, and at the same time it will reduce the threshold to apply for these services in time. At the same time, we must, of course, ensure that we have a service system and structures that provide care and assistance in good time. No free-of-charge service will help if treatment queues prevent access to the aid. In the future, however, the free health services include, for example, carers’ receptions in primary health care also for adults. In addition, it is important that all outpatient visits under the age of 18 become free of charge and mental health services in primary health care, including HIV prevention, will continue to be free of charge. I would like to point out specifically that it is very important that the services of support centres for victims of sexual violence are finally free of charge. No victim of sexual violence should have to pay for the service or assistance he receives after a shocking crime. I would also like to thank our Committee on Social Affairs and Health for taking a heavy stand in favour of the free provision of pregnant services for substance abusers. It would be extremely important for HAL police visits to be free of charge. Every child has the right to be born healthy and without exposure to drugs, and every pregnant person has the right to receive all the support during pregnancy despite the substance abuse problem. Mr President! As I said earlier, it is only part of the reform that is taking place. These changes are now aimed only at responding to the most urgent needs for change. We will really need a comprehensive reform. I would like to stress that it is essential in the future to ensure that all services relating to substance abuse are included in the free health services as well. Unfortunately, this is not yet the case at this point. More attention should also be paid to harmonising the regulation of social welfare and health care charges in order to ensure genuine social and health integration. It is also important that, in the future, when such major reforms are carried out, there should also be a genuine assessment of the impact of children and, for example, an evaluation of people with disabilities. Unfortunately, at this point, they have not yet been made comprehensively enough. All in all, the proposal must be supported and will certainly help to develop our service system in a more equal and fairer direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u206	Mr President! First of all, I support the amendments made by Mr Laiho and the proposals he has made. Then I would like to thank Mr Lindén again for the open criticism you have brought, that is, in the way that we should be developing, because it is quite true that we have a much greater share of ownership than in many other countries, and everything we are able to do slowly to reduce that share of ownership is certainly very important. That is precisely what is being criticised in this protest, which has been submitted to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in this report, namely that we are also on the side of the municipalities. It is therefore quite understandable that these customer fees should be reduced, that the ceilings should be combined, because we have also had the problem of having a number of different ceilings, and they all accumulate, and a person with a lot of illnesses really — they have been separately covered by the travel compensation caps and all — then they will be raised at the same time, and that will be the problem. These municipal effects are being examined in the objection to the Assembly, and it has been estimated here that quite a bit, EUR 45 million, will be reduced to the municipalities, and it would be compensated, but the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has calculated that it is 58 million, which means that it is quite unusual that they have not been compensated since there has been an agreement for some time now that they will always be compensated. What this protest is about children's free health care: that was better at the time of last season's presentation, and I would have liked it to have come as such, but unfortunately this is not the case. Then a good speech was made here about the use and use of drugs and these problems. After all, we have an increase in mental health and substance abuse problems. Mrs Kyllönen also made an excellent speech on assisting intoxicant mothers. I would just like to remind you of a problem which we have, that when the fetus is not familiar with Finnish legislation, this is where criminal law does not help and nothing helps, so that we should be motivated to take care of it by the substance abuse mother. After all, we have in the world — I think we have Norway in which it is — this so-called voluntary obligation that you can sign that you are being taken into so-called forced care in a situation where you do not control the situation. At the time I was driving it myself, and I think that, at least here, when we could lower these customer fees to drug addicts, we would save two people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u207	Mr President! A few more things about this customer fee law: I would like to highlight this shift in oral health care now to the ceiling, which is a good change because oral health care is important and affects overall health. That is where the sums can go up, and it is important that these payments do not come in so that we cannot afford to go there. In this area of oral health care, there is just such a problem that, at the moment, the public sector queues are quite long, and during the interest rate they have become even worse, so when they come under this ceiling, which is a good thing, this pressure on this public sector will increase even further. Now we should find solutions to these treatment queues, how municipalities are supported in coping with these treatment queues, and one convenient and quick solution would be to raise the Kela allowance for oral health care, even on a temporary basis, so that some people would be directed to the private sector. Even if they have to pay more for it, when they get more of it than they do at the moment, it would encourage them to use it and then be able to take to the public sector the most deprived or those who want to stay in line there. I do encourage the government to think about this. The situation of intoxicant mothers was also raised here, and this is very important, and it is great that this issue was also taken into account in this report in relation to these clinic visits. Hopefully, further substance abuse rehabilitation and ward care will also be included. Then, on the third point, I would like to make this point: Here, Mr Rehn-Kivi made a good proposal in the committee that ‘the Council of State should become involved in measures to clarify the difference between enhanced service housing and other service housing and to improve the regulation on the need for care and care for customers around the clock’. This was taken here unanimously, and this is a very important statement. By the time the Act on carers came into force, it can already be seen in the field that care is being transferred from 24 hours a day to the usual area of service housing, even though it is just as much for the elderly to need care, so that this is a very important statement, and it is good that it was brought in. This care for the elderly will require a better analysis,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u208	Mr President! From this very point of view, I would like to make a few comments on the debate that has taken place. This issue of making children’s services completely available is indeed a very important issue. I'm not going to argue about that right now. Now, this time, we were within a certain financial framework, which now enabled a very significant reform, i.e. a reform of more than EUR 20 million in the field of outpatient payments. Then another EUR 10 million would have been paid — note. EUR 5 million is not enough, and EUR 10 million would have been needed — which would have made children's hospital care, i.e. ward care, free of charge. I hope that it can be promoted as soon as possible here. This is already quite an important reform for families with children as such, but I would like to continue with it in this respect. Reference was made to this oral health care, and it was important that it was brought up. Personally, I would prefer a model of purchasing services. It's better than health insurance. For health insurance in oral health care, if it is said quite frankly, during the previous parliamentary term, the government dropped the health insurance allowances for oral health care from EUR 124 million to EUR 40 million. We have never had such a large cut in social security in such a short period of time as from 124 million to 40 million, more than 80 million, which, at the moment, in practice, currently has private oral health care to pay between 85 and 86% for it and then only about 14% for health insurance, which was already well over 30%. But if the purchase service were to do this, then it would be just enough to make this go away with the same customer fees that are paid for municipal dental care. The purchase service would also be included in its ceiling because it compares with the activities of the municipalities themselves. That is what I would advise the municipalities to do. However, we have some large, wealthy municipalities, especially here in the capital region, who would think there would be money to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u209	Mr President! I wanted to speak briefly on the treatment of substance abuse mothers and on the substance abuse problem, which, unfortunately, we do not have in Finland to reduce, to a smaller extent, but to the contrary. Of course, these messages also appear in connection with this corona period that even less and less often the treatment can be targeted when the resources go there to treat the corona. I hope that Parliament will be able to pay more attention to this whole in many committees in the future. And then it would also be very necessary for drug addict mothers — some also drug addicts — to provide treatment for young, young drug addict mothers by other authorities than social welfare and health authorities. We could talk a lot about oral health care, but Mr Lindén raised perhaps the most important issue here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u210	Mr President! There is a good discussion here about these customer fees, and it has become clear how this ownership in Finland is high overall in health care. But then I would also like to see what is done with free-of-charge services if they are not available, or if they do not, they will raise the ceiling. Take, for example, these dental services at the moment. THL estimates that there are 1.3 million missed visits, and for example, heart disease is affected in such a way that when the mouth is infected, it increases the risk of coronary heart disease. And how many cuts are left uncut or prolonged when you cannot check your mouth because, for example, hip surgery or joint replacement surgery requires good mouth condition? That is why I would say that, in any case, when we now have to do so that this maintenance debt really needs to be reduced, it would be very important that there should then be commitments and we should then take that private service to help. What we have at the moment is the legal fact that the websites of health centres and hospitals should show what kind of queue situation there is, how long we have to wait, but that will not happen, and the aid will not be able to assess it or monitor it. Now there should be a posture to it, because there are a lot of patients who need help but whose own hospital capacity is not enough. However, we have freedom of choice in the public sector, we could move to another hospital district to receive that treatment. That is why these queue data should be public. Then, of course, all in all, there is also a need for private service, and that payment must not, however, exceed what is necessary in the public sector. Now I really need that treatment guarantee to be implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u211	Mr President! I had to take the floor again to clarify to Mrs Lindén this free healthcare for children, which we tabled. Children's health services, which are entirely free of charge, would cost 5 million in 2021 for all children to be on an equal footing. But since this bill has been proposed to enter into force halfway next year, not since the beginning of the year — and then it will be the 10 million, quite rightly, as you said — it will be 10 million a year, but 5 million next year. Then, from this oral health care service, the service voucher is also a good solution to obtain services with the municipal service voucher and purchase service as well as Kela compensation. In this way, the purchasing service puts a greater burden on the municipal organiser because it comes with the administrative work, and with Kela's direct payment they would direct themselves to it, but both of them are useful tools for it. With regard to health care for children, and with regard to access for the elderly, where we have the proposed amendments to the section, these have been taken into account in the alternative budget of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u212	Mr President! As I now see in this debate that this ‘head mother’ has been ‘washed, so I want to deliver an appeal to the Preventiveness Labour Organization Network,the same way that we talk about cancer mothers who are sick of cancer,we are talking about the use of experientials during pregnancy or some similar I understand that the language is difficult and that the language is always trying to adopt the simplest form, but especially when it comes to a very vulnerable group and a strongly stigmatised group, I would like to see attention paid to this language. I know that in the scientific circles the concept of "head mom" has already been abandoned, but it is not
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u213	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 30/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Congressman Viitanen will introduce you. Let's have a general discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u214	Mr President! It is a question of annual income tax legislation, with scale checks on the tax scale, raising the reduction in labour income and basic deductions, and maintaining the solidarity tax. In total, this will reduce the tax revenue by 420 million, which will reduce the tax burden. This committee stresses that changes in the tax bases of this proposal will reduce the tax burden on employees in all income categories. And why a little blackmail is actually going to take place will be the result of these changes in social insurance contributions, which are, therefore, rooted in more distant history. This proposal contains a lot of these tax issues on employee benefits. They will be improved by a reduction of EUR 170 per month in the tax value of electric cars, zero-emission cars, and then an increase in the tax exemption of an employment ticket to EUR 3400, a tax exemption of EUR 1200 for an employment cycle. These are, of course, all positive reforms and, of course, the committee supports them. President! Perhaps one thing that is appropriate for a specific mention in this presentation is that this time the government also proposed an amendment to the sports fund. In other words, it proposed raising the current limit of the maximum annual amount from 100,000 to 200,000 in the government's proposal. But we in the section would have a somewhat broader debate on the need to consider the social security of athletes as a whole. Firstly, to improve: an athlete's career is very unusual, and that is why we wanted to make two improvements to this government proposal. The second concerns the fact that this time when this money can be withdrawn from the fund was raised slightly from 10 to 15 years, as requested by the sports field. And another improvement is that they no longer need to be raised in equal instalments, but can then in future, if necessary, also be increased in different amounts in different instalments. We consider this to be flexible, and in particular we wanted to give a good signal to the sports people and to the sportspeople that we want to see this issue of livelihood important. These interest periods, the uncertain times, certainly provided specific grounds for this. People in all sectors are faced with a more difficult situation in terms of the future, the employment situation and everything. President! At the end of the day, I am pleased that this is not about the corresponding social security problems of cultural authors, but it is about the same things being a challenge there too on the cultural side.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u215	Mr President! I would like to protest against the Christian Democrats, but at the end of the day I would also like to draw attention to this issue of the sports fund, about which I can say that, in an exemplary way, we worked well across the government's opposition borders in the tax section and so on in the Committee on Budgets, and we have made changes which have been received with gratitude by the sportspeople. But first of all, this protest from the Christian Democrats. We have made changes to the section on the tax table, the municipal tax deduction and the deduction of labour income, and then four statements on the tax exemption for the allowance for informal care, the increase in the household allowance and the refund of the child deduction, and the reduction in the tax deduction for the contributions of labour market organisations. Indeed, with these changes, we believe that it would be necessary to revitalise the consequences of the economic crisis caused by this corona crisis by reducing the tax burden on labour in order to improve people's purchasing power and their profitability. In such a situation, no one should be subject to increased taxation. Similarly, taxation should target more support for families, homes and home care provided in the government proposal. We also believe, with this half of the contributions from the social partners, that, on the other hand, in such a situation, it would be important to look at these different tax deduction rights with a slightly more critical eye. But, Mr President, I would also like to talk about this fund for athletes and the importance of the changes made to it. First of all, the sports fund is intended to ensure the survival of an athlete after his or her career. Under the rules, an athlete can transfer income generated during a sports career, and all these revenues from the sports fund are always taxed. Once again, the coaching fund is the one that, in accordance with very strict rules in its career, is used against receipts to prepare for it, and it is indeed clearly defined which income is considered to be related to coaching, but the sports fund is then intended for that post-graduate life. In line with the government's proposal, the Tax Section approved an increase in the annual ceiling of the income transferred to this fund of athletes from the current EUR 100000 to EUR 200,000, as well as an increase in unemployment of at least one year as a specific reason for such funds to be increased more quickly than planned. In addition to this, good cooperation was achieved in the section and agreement was reached on the extension of the current period of income from these funds transferred to the Fund for Sports from 10 to 15 years at the latest. In this context, it was noted that, for these specific reasons too, such as incapacity for work or unemployment lasting at least two years, these funds can be made available at least two years faster and evenly. In the Committee's view, this provision should always be interpreted flexibly and in the light of its objectives. However, I am extremely pleased that these amendments have been made to this draft law, and I am also very pleased that the committee groups had very good cooperation in bringing these amendments through. In addition, I think it is important that the committee stated that the sports fund should be more flexible than it is at present to secure the financial livelihood of an athlete after his or her career as an athlete, and that reference is made to at least a few points. Firstly, future legislative measures should support the equality and equality of athletes, both between individual and team athletes and between genders. Attention was then also paid to the social security challenges faced by athletes and it was noted that this requires greater attention and wide-ranging assessment. Of course, in this context it was not possible to go ahead with this, because we only had this one paragraph in the Income Tax Act open, and in that sense the changes that could be made to it were made. But I think that the next step would be to develop the possibility of this career coaching fund also for a team sport athlete. Today it is not possible, but only for sportsmen of individual species, whereas in our neighbouring country, Sweden, for example, it is possible. In that sense, it may even cause distortions in the player market in certain species, since it is considered that in Sweden these opportunities for self-employment as an athlete are better. Of course, when this is not possible in Finland for these sportsmen of individual species, it leaves them in a particularly difficult position, for example, for women hockey players or football players who do not actually come from that sport, but then, if they receive even a small amount of sponsorship income, immediately, when they cannot put it in that coaching fund, it is considered that it is their salary, not to mention the fact that when many of these athletes are, for example, on the basis of study benefits or social security benefits, housing allowance may be enjoyed or similar, these individual incomes of this kind then cut these benefits. In view of the fact that these athletes are indeed top athletes, but they themselves are paying for their own sportsmanship and they have little or no income from it, it is difficult to deal with their own career financial situation, and that is why this type of correction would be extremely important. And likewise, this EUR 20,000 limit, which has been the same for more than 20 years, passed over the turn of the year as a training cover: the cost of training has certainly increased in this time period, and this should then be increased. But these are the things of the future. To conclude, I would like to read the feedback of a young hockey player, a 23-year-old hockey player, ‘I am confident that these changes will ease the life after a career of sportsmen. For many, the leap into normal working life is great, and these decisions will certainly make it easier. Athletes are in a very different position with regard to so-called normal employees.” And then he goes on to say, ‘I'm sure he's still working, but this is for a bigger step. “ I would like to express these words with gratitude to the entire tax section and to the committee which has done a good job here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u216	Mr President! It is very important that the limits of the state taxation income tax scale at all income levels, at all levels of the progressive income tax scale, be increased by 2.5%, as estimated by the change in the index of earnings next year. This report has specifically emphasised that this proposal, which we are now dealing with, does not lead to an increase in the tax burden on employees. I explained to the Tax Department of the Ministry of Finance what consists of this whole change in the tax-like contributions of an employee, which, in the end, will lead to an increase in taxation as a whole. It is no longer a matter of history, but there is an increase of 0.20 percentage points in the daily allowance fee for sickness insurance, then the health insurance contribution is reduced by 0.02 percentage points, and then the employee's unemployment insurance contribution increases by 0.15 percentage points. These will become a total increase of 0.33 percentage points. Of course, their own figure is the development of the municipal tax rate in each municipality. It must be noted that the scale changes, including changes in the reduction in earnings and basic deductions, also relate to the share of earned income in business income, including income from agriculture. Then you could comment that this change, which was made in committee, is of course a good thing that an athlete can earn funds transferred to an athlete's fund over a longer period of time than before and also manage them in an appropriate manner. And it was probably not clear to anyone just now that we had the sports expertise available to Mr Essayah in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u217	Mr President! So there is a government proposal for a law on the income tax scale for the year 21. I would just like to draw my attention to the point where we are dealing with this, which has been mentioned here before, the periodicity of sports incomes and proposals for amendments to the sports fund. These are important for many athletes in preparing for the future. From the rewards of sport when there is no pension, these sports incomes can be funded after a career to provide financial security for the athletes who usually earn money from sport. Regrettably, many species can only dream of income from sport, but there are also species that accumulate quite well in terms of rewards and wages. The average amount to be transferred to the Sports Fund has been EUR 26000 per year. The limit that can be transferred a year has previously been 100,000, and now the government's proposal increases the limit to EUR 200,000. So it is possible to transfer 50% of the annual result, for example, an athlete who earns EUR 400,000 a year, to transfer the 200,000 that was the maximum. I don't think we have that many sportsmen in Finland who make this much money. Then there is the good thing about this change in committee. When this was the case in the past that, after two to ten years of sport has ended, you can earn this money, the committee has proposed that it be extended to 15 years. That's a good change. An amendment has also been made to allow the fund to be dismantled more quickly than planned, for example, if there is unemployment for at least one year. These are good changes. This is good news for sportsmen. Mr President! In general, I would like to say that the pension provision for athletes must be further developed and social security and the role of athletes must also be strengthened. Many athletes work full - time, and a large part of the income from sports is very low. For many, sport could be compared to an artist’s career, not even for money’s sake, but for love of the sport and self-realization of the sport. Sport brings experiences not only to athletes but also to the general public, and athletes often serve as an example for younger generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u218	Mr President! There are a lot of other things that are at stake in this report and in this matter, but I myself will only talk about this one detail relating to access to the sports fund for athletes. First of all, I would like to thank the whole committee and its tax section for their excellent work. It is great to see that such matters, which improve the ability of athletes to prepare for the post-sports career, work together across government-opposition boundaries. This is the most significant change, which, in my view, was entirely the result of the committee, because, in the past, it has been able to amortise this revenue from the sports fund after a sports career, whether it was only 5 years, and in the government's proposal it was 10 years, and now it has extended it to 15 years. This is a very significant change from the past. In practical terms, it means that the funds funded by the sports fund will be raised there after the end of the sport career in equal instalments, and in that case the time for, for example, being able to obtain training for yourself or to prepare for the post-employment period will be considerably longer. The second amendment, which also covered these exceptions, is important. In other words, if there is unemployment, for example, you can deviate from these differentials, and that is a very good change too. The amendment concerning the increase in the maximum level of sports security is also quite welcome and good in itself, but, as Mr Asell has said here, this applies to very few athletes. I could give you an example. In this, Mr Essayah well described how most athletes have this, and I personally think I am a reasonably good example of how this system is, of course, very necessary and good, but also how it works. So, in practice, when an athlete receives some kind of support every year — usually at least if he is a successful athlete or a potential athlete — from society as a variety of coaching support, either through the Federation of Species or, for example, through the Olympic Committee's top sports unit today, some get it from the club or from cooperation agreements, sponsor agreements or possibly from a prize fund, they can all be put into the coaching fund. It is conditional on a tripartite agreement involving not only its partner but also its association. And then this money, as it were, is being earned, and it acts as if it were a company: it is then being raised against the receipts, and it really has precise definitions of the costs that can be accepted in accordance with the accounting law. And then if there is something extra left in that coaching fund, so to speak, after all those expenses, then you can also raise it by means of a tax card as wages. By the way, as there is a very low income for athletes, so few are left, as it were, over the money earmarked for sports expenses to be raised to pay. And then if anything else is left over, they can be transferred to the coaching fund for the following year. Indeed, that amount is EUR 20000 and would like it to rise, for many athletes, even successful athletes, may vary significantly from year to year, especially in species where prize money is received. Well, then, if this is over, then that money can be transferred to that sports fund. So the point is that if sports becomes like such a profit, it can then be transferred to the sports fund from which they can be raised for the years to come after a sports career. Well, in my own career, for example, I was never in a situation where I could transfer money to an athlete's fund, i.e. in practice the preparation that I was able to do in the post-sports career, perhaps amounted to some EUR 10,000, which, as it were, had been over the cost of sports. In other words, rather quickly we had to find work, because there is no earnings-related unemployment benefit either. Of course, minimum unemployment security will be fine for a while, but it may not be very long, at least in that situation. In other words, the social, pension and unemployment security of athletes is still very poor and particularly bad for individual athletes who have no employment relationship, i.e. no employer — virtually all individual athletes are in this situation. And, unfortunately, when many people here in Parliament have the impression that all those who are a sportsman get along very well, the truth is quite different in practice. Most athletes live — even with the support of the Olympic Committee — even below the poverty line. All mobile income is put into practice for sports, student support is a major contributor to living, and it is, of course, limited by the fact that many people will then have difficulties in making progress in their studies at the pace of obtaining student support. And the student loan was also a means that I spent a lot of money on my sport at the time, and it will, of course, be paid after the end of the studies, and then we have to hope that at that point there will be an opportunity. So with this, I just wanted to describe the situation that many athletes have. It is very challenging and I therefore very much thank you for bringing about this improvement, but, as many have already said, there are still considerable developments. If I could do the first few things myself, then the possibility of transferring the coaching fund raised by Mrs Essayah to the next year, raising its limit, would be one, then the second would be for scholarship athletes pension security through Mela, which at the moment is already the practice of artist grants, and the third would then be like this a little more complicated, i.e. changing the definition of your work. If an athlete becomes unemployed and continues to practice, there should be no restriction on the possibility of receiving unemployment benefit when considering that he/she has his/her own job. And if we could get this list of three
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u219	Mr President! Yesterday, in connection with the energy tax, I said that this is a bit of an exceptional first reading when the atmosphere was quite serene, there was no hard cross-setting. It was relatively satisfied that a boost had been made to safeguard employment and climate objectives. And I must say today that perhaps a little is an exceptional first reading also in relation to the Income Tax Act. Often, at this point, we have had a great deal of break in the nests, but we have had the opportunity to do so earlier and we will probably continue to do so, so let it be a little less of this atmosphere. Overall, this tax solution is relatively normal. In other words, in my opinion, the important focus was already on this year last year, when there was a clear reduction in the tax burden on people on low and medium incomes. This is more, if you could say, perhaps even a routine solution. That is why it was important that it made it possible for us to think about other matters that were open within this law. And yes, I must say that Parliament also has the power to intervene in its own affairs. You don't have to expect everything from the government. People often think that there are only button printers here, but this is not really the case. This is the first time the section has had the opportunity to change the government's proposal. We are going to do that, President, I think, in the future. And that is why this is very positive, because these are clear improvements. It seems very historic to me that, as such a sportsman, I have the great honour of having a similar debate here with Multala and Essayah and Aselli, who have a major sports career, and in that sense you are all, I am sure, every one of us idolizes in one way or another, if that is the case. As a little girl, I was a representative of Aselli’s predecessor, Pertti Ukkola, with a bouquet of flowers, when he arrived as an Olympic winner at the airport in Finland. That there are such wonderful memories. And that is why it is important that we are able to guarantee our young promises, mobile children and athletes in general a decent living, and these improvements are important one at a time. But, Mr President, that is precisely because, in this case, the section intervened in those matters which we had the opportunity to intervene in. We noted here that there is a general demand for development, both in terms of pension and unemployment security, for both sports and cultural people. And I know that a similar debate is taking place, among other things, on the Committee on Finance's Committee on Education and Science. There has been a great deal of concern about the future and opportunities of many cultural factors, for example. And now, especially, of course, these [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u220	Thank you. — And Mr Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u221	Mr President! Representative Multala spoke well about this situation, which is what most Finnish athletes have in the end, i.e. there on the poverty line with their arts, and the student support centre, according to the studies, is the largest sponsor in Finland, which is indeed the majority of young athletes with that student grant and student loan who are squeezing and sports on the side with quite professional hours, but those resources are indeed very modest. That is why I think it is important to do everything that can be done in this system to improve their position, especially since this is primarily a question of cutting red tape in this situation and wanting to interpret these rules more flexibly, which are linked to these funds. In the beginning, these training and sports fund was created because of the fact that in time sport had such a period of so-called brown envelopes, when it was tax fraud and it was paid out in darkness with various start-up funds and rewards, and the sports people wanted to get rid of it and wanted a system that is transparent and that really athletes are able to accept these sponsors' incomes so that it all happens right. I myself think that all the athletes who are in these training and sports funds are the athletes who really return to the heart of wanting to have their own small income to support Finnish society through tax payments. Of course, we have athletes with millions of income, and most of the time their place of residence is in Monaco or is somewhere in the United States where the profession is carried out. These athletes are not affected by these sports funds or coaching funds, and unfortunately, for these athletes, the tax loss to Finland is 100% total. But this is, as I have already said in my speech in committee, the way of such an ordinary professional athlete who is capable of his own training and then, in a small part, of supporting his post-Athletic career. Indeed, as I said, I am extremely pleased with the work that has been done. Representative Multalak well listed future development targets. I myself sit in that committee on social security as a representative of my own group, and I thought that if there were a small slice of time left there, then this could have been raised, but I am a little afraid that perhaps the sportspeople themselves will now have to bring up the proposals and say that these are the most urgent ones, and that is how we would like things to move forward, and then let us go and see what is politically possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u222	Mr President! I would like to continue with this excellent speech by Mr Essayah. Of course, there would be enough to talk about this other proposal, and the Assembly has also objected to this – but I am not going to go to it this time, to maintain a good atmosphere in this Chamber this time. We can talk about it when there may be more listeners here. I would like to say this once again that, as Mr Essayah also works there, and I have taken this same wish to many people now, I know that movement is on the move and that there is a common will for what are now the priorities for improvement. Especially on the team sport side, there is the hope that one day sportsmen could be part of the so-called normal system, but we all know, of course, that it will require quite a lot of change and, of course, then raise the costs for employers as well as likely to mean a slightly smaller amount of euro in the hand for the monthly athletes. In other words, these are the very questions that we should be considering within sport. And I really want to underline that I hope that there will be even more understanding in Parliament that there are quite few athletes in the situation where it is entirely possible to avoid that payment of Finnish taxes and move somewhere else to do sports — and not to do so — and then, on the other hand, that the livelihood of sportsmen is often very hard-hitting. Everyone understands, too, that if there is great uncertainty about their own livelihood, it is also very difficult to concentrate fully on training, let alone to make top-notch results when there is a situation in many competing countries that, as if from a much lower level, there is already a full potential not only for living but also for training under the best conditions. Here we still have a lot to do in Finland, and it is great to see that there is a common will in Parliament to improve the socio-economic status of the athlete.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u223	President! I must say that, at the end of the day, I would like to thank the section, we had a good cooperation. I must admit that I was very impressed when Mr Essayah there very often used this ‘duunarian athlete’, as I was very much said. It was quite a good illustration of the fact that many people have very few incomes, and, contrary to what is often thought to be the case now only for privileged people, this is not, of course, the case. In that sense, I think it was important that we were able to make this change. And as has been said, I think it is a little nervous now that we are taking these issues seriously in terms of social and unemployment security in the field of sport and culture. Finnish sports, Finnish sports, Finnish culture, everyone, deserve this, and it is therefore good that, as a section too, we were able to play our part at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u224	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SIVM 13/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u225	Mr President! Indeed, I am presenting here our report on the Government's proposal to Parliament on the amendment of the Law on Vocational Education and Training and on certain related laws. Mr President! The Government's proposal contains some very technical amendments, such as those previously adopted in other legislation. All these laws are listed in our report. The committee also considers it important that the basic professional qualifications provided for in Article 32 of the Transport Services Act should be carried out by means of a basic qualification test, the so-called 'test model', in Article 120 on the tasks of the Working Life Committees. The introduction of an experimental model will increase the scope for certification of professional qualifications and facilitate the availability of labour in the transport sector. The committee supports the proposal contained in the proposal to extend the obligation to issue a certificate of employment under the Employment Contracts Act to apprenticeships. A certificate of employment as documentation of work experience, skills and working life skills can contribute to employment. This applies in particular to young people for whom apprenticeships may be the first actual or longer working period. The Government's proposal proposes that automatic feedback systems can be put in place for the collection of student and working life feedback. It is proposed to postpone the introduction of feedback on working life by one year, i.e. by 2023, when the collection of feedback on working life can be carried over directly to the automatic feedback system. The committee stresses the importance of feedback on students and working life in the development of vocational education and training, and stresses its use and supports the proposal made in this respect. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Education considers that the Government's proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal with the following comments and amendments. Now, first of all, this change in the financial contributions, which is in fact, can be said to be the main thing here. In other words, the most important proposal in terms of the content of the proposal relates to the proposal's 3rd draft law. It proposes to modify the percentages of the various contributions to vocational training to maintain the percentages of contributions for the financial year 2020. According to the proposal, the share of core funding is 70 per cent, the share of performance funding is 20 per cent and the share of effectiveness funding is 10 per cent. In addition, it is proposed to clarify the provisions so that the fixed-term increases to be decided on in the budget, which will be allocated to basic funding in the form of discretionary increases, will not in future reduce the accrual-specific funding of basic funding, i.e. the so-called student year price. Without the proposed changes, core funding would be 60%, performance funding would be 30% and effectiveness funding would be 10% in 2021. In 2022 the share of basic funding would have fallen to 50%. In the expert opinions, the proposal has been largely supported, but some changes to the financial contributions have also been considered problematic. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs supports the proposal because basic funding is sufficient to ensure a sustainable and sufficiently predictable financial basis for long-term planning of activities and possible solutions such as the establishment of staff. The committee is aware that some training providers have steered and developed their activities in anticipation of the increase in the share of performance funding in 2021 and in 2022. The Government's proposal represents a change of direction in the phasing-in of planned funding and may have a negative impact on the financial participation of some training providers in 2021 in relation to expectations and the development activities carried out. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs stresses the importance of the financial stability of vocational education and training for long-term activities and therefore understands the criticism that has been made, while at the same time stressing the importance of the sustainability of the basic funding to education and training providers. The committee considers it necessary and is convinced that the 30% contribution to performance and effectiveness funding will provide sufficient guidance for performance and effective action in the future. Then we said about the development of the financial system. According to the expert opinion, the funding system for vocational education and training is the most complex in the education sector and is hampered by a wide range of funding applications that hamper the long-term and planned nature of activities. Among other things, there is a general problem with the use of the financial system to apply discretionary increases in basic funding to the financing of certain regular expenditure. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs supports the continuation of the clarification of the financing model for vocational education and training and the reduction of the number of applications for funding. The committee is concerned that the financial model is considered to be too job-intensive and unclear and that it contributes to hampering the planning of operations. Then we present here our amendments to the first draft law and the second draft law relating to our legislative proposals. The committee's proposal for a decision is that Parliament approves the government proposal as amended on 3 and 4. the draft law, but Parliament would accept, as amended, the first and second legislative proposals contained in the government proposal. And this report contains a clause. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u226	Mr President! This government proposal and the report by the Committee on Culture and Education are in some respects to be welcomed in terms of simplifying the financing system for vocational education and training and reducing the number of applications for projects and increasing predictability. I would like to present the objection to the Assembly and the proposed amendment to the paragraph relating to it. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the criteria for the financing of vocational education and training. The reform of vocational education and training was prepared in broad cooperation with the field during the last parliamentary term and received broad approval. The reform-related change in the financial system was intended to enter into force in a long transitional period and to enter into force in full for the financial year 2022. The reform of the financing system for vocational education and training has been aimed at providing the skills that will enable the transition to work. The reform of the financial system has also been aimed at ensuring that the organiser of education has sufficient incentives to ensure the individual needs of each student and personalisation of the studies, thereby also contributing to the progress of the studies. The Government's proposal also reduces the predictability of funding for vocational education and training. The financial system has just been reformed and training providers have started to adapt their activities to the new financial system. The Government's proposal represents a significant change of direction and has a negative impact on the financial contribution of some training providers in 2021 in relation to expectations and planned and implemented development activities. The explanatory statement of the Government's proposal states that about 40% of the providers of education will decrease the financial account as performance and effectiveness rates increase. In euro, the biggest decrease would be close to EUR 4 million for the individual provider of training. This is a significant weakening of the current state. It must also be possible to reward the development of the quality and effectiveness of education through the financial system, and there is no justification for watering down the reform of vocational education and training in these areas. On this basis, we propose that the draft laws be adopted otherwise than in accordance with the committee's report, except in Article 32a of the third draft law. deleted. Let me say something about what I read here, what it means in Finnish: The aim of the reform of vocational education and training and the reform of the financial system was to provide incentives for the organisers of education to find employment when the student acquires the skills it provides or progresses in his or her studies, i.e. to complete those parts of the degree or degrees, so that funding will also reward more of the providers of education, i.e. those who provide that vocational training. This encourages every person who organises education to make sense of helping every young person, drawing up a personal curriculum and adapting their studies to the point that if, for example, a student needs more local education, it is possible for him or her to do so. If he can perform faster and demonstrate his skills in working life, he can also do so. And at a time when these contributions to efficiency and performance funding would have been higher in the coming years, this incentive would of course increase. And that is why I myself am concerned that this is now undermining this effect — that is to say, the fact that vocational training certainly offers the skills that will then enable us to find employment in the future. We believe that it would have been justified to continue to implement the reform of the financing system for vocational education and training, as was the case in the previous government proposal, and not to undermine the funding and effectiveness and performance of those training providers who have implemented this reform. So the performances have come from there, which means that the studies have progressed, and this has improved their running. And now we are going more in the direction that, in line with the number of students, funding will come in the future, as it was in the past. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u227	Mr President! First of all, I would like to support Mr Multala's objection with his amendments to the section. After all, this government proposal proposes to change the criteria for the financing of vocational education and training. This current funding system has recently, in the previous period, been reformed and has sought to ensure that the providers of education have sufficient incentives to care for the individual needs of each student and personalisation of their studies, thereby contributing to the progress of their studies. Now we are changing this: there are these percentages of what is given for basic funding and then what has been done varies. In other words, we should also be able to measure quality and demand a certain quality of education by getting better results from the student's point of view. The development of the quality and effectiveness of education must also be rewarded through the financial system. Vocational education has been in the midst of a major reform, and now there is an extension of compulsory education age if the legislative change goes through the parliament. With concern, I am following the field and the teachers who are now in this state of change. They have already been there during the previous term of government, and now, when it comes — if it does — to adopting laws and extending the compulsory age, and the problem of adequacy of funding comes through, it is a very pressing situation. Sometimes you think that you should also be able to give people peace of work to develop their own activities and not be afraid of what is coming again and what will be the next change. And now that there is still this corona crisis and the teaching methods need to be adjusted accordingly, this is a totally unreasonable situation for teachers, a totally unreasonable situation for teachers to bring a major change in compulsory school age law in the midst of all this change, and at the same time a change in the financial system will also be introduced. It is good that the financial system should be clarified, but it is not justified to revolutionise it as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u228	The chairman of the committee, Mr Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u229	Mr President! Indeed, we in the committee really understood those people and even those who felt that this was wrong. And I personally consider this to be a little bit of a coop because we did just such a simulation that if we had gone through with the old system, that is, with the present system this funding was distributed, who would have won, who would have lost. And as has been said in that protest, which I myself support, the individual organiser may have lost nearly EUR 4 million of what he had planned. You can only imagine that the school will have to live for the next year and plan to spend that money. And then all of a sudden, they say it's not going to happen. And this has been a good purpose in its time when this has been renewed. As a teacher in the field, I understand that it also matters that you know what basic funding is, but that we should increase the effectiveness of education. And those results and positive effects should then have some incentive. Otherwise, such training may not be sufficiently developed. When this reform or change in this funding for vocational education and training was made, the idea was precisely that results and effectiveness should be paid for. It was the same in polytechnics in their day that bonuses were given for it. And that was a good idea. Then suddenly it's changed. Well, I definitely believe that there is also such a so-called image disadvantage for us decision-makers. What is the picture of changing these so quickly? Should we not first look at the benefits of it, make a statement, and only then, on the basis of facts, change it? Now we have no investigation into this. I say that there are some positive points here, but the predictability that is really needed at the schools there, and the confidence in the decision-makers is falling a little short. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u230	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, TyVM 15/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Chairman of the Committee, represented by Mr Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u231	Mr President! The Government's proposal contains some of the interest-rate provisions on unemployment benefit that would now be extended over a year to 2021. The most important of these: the lay-offs could continue to study full-time until the end of 2021, and the right of the entrepreneur to labour market support would continue until the end of March. Instead, for example, the relaxation of the sanctions on the online job search would be eliminated. This is a situation in which a lot of new unemployed people became unemployed as a result of the interest rate, and because the service is confusing and difficult to use, job search was interrupted in so many cases because the deadlines or details required by the service were not completed. Now, this relaxation or relief is removed, and the committee wants to point out in its own report that the online service is still confused and that something should be done about it as soon as possible. The second point that the committee drew attention to is the suspension of the right to labour market support for entrepreneurs in very short parts. The committee understands that we do not know how the interest rate will develop, and the extension of the temporary derogation for a very long period of time to the future also presents problems, but when it comes to people's income security, the three-month withdrawal period is very short. The committee therefore believes that such short cuts should be avoided in the future and that it is absolutely essential that they be properly communicated in the situations in which they are used.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u232	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Chairman of the Committee, represented by Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u233	Mr President! Indeed, here I presented our report on this two-year pre-school experiment, and I already said that this is an impossible good thing. I myself warmly support two-year pre-school education and now it will be put to the test here. It's a long time for him to do this, too. This last period allowed for a reduction in early childhood education fees and has then been extended, and now this experiment in pre-school education will be launched. Prime Minister In August 2018, the Sipilä Government launched an experiment on free early childhood education for 5-year-olds with the aim of increasing the participation rate of early childhood education and thus promoting educational equality. The experiment has originally had to last a year, but the government has decided to continue the experiment in another trial period. And then the government of Prime Minister Marin decided to continue the experiment during the third period, from August 2020 to July 2021. The first evaluation report has been published in autumn 2019. And now we have a proposal for a law on two-year pre-school education. I am very much in favour of this being tried out, because there is always a need for those experiments in the major reforms that we are dealing with here. And even though there have been experiments here and we have already been informed that it has been well done, I do understand, on the other hand, that this two-year period must be tried out. But, yes, we have to make decisions already, and quite a bit of a mess is making these decisions. That, now that we have a report on this, we already have good evidence of previous experiments and phases, so that when we get the reports on this — and I believe that those experiences now do not change very much from there, what has been so far about this type of experiment and experimenting on this issue — then we have to turn into an operating model, and that positive experience in particular, to put it into practice and take it into practice as a permanent activity. But once again I say that two-year pre-school education brings precisely the more complete school path and precisely the path of learning. We then drew attention here to the fact that pre-school education is pre-school education, which means that it must also be remembered that the educare model, i.e. education and care, varies precisely according to the needs of children. That has also been taken into account. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u234	Mr President! Indeed, it is very much to be welcomed that the two-year pre-school experiment is now starting. That is where we support the government's proposal. It has been shown in many ways that, when more children at the age of five are brought into the field of planned education and education, it will be of considerable benefit during the school path and as an equalizer of learning differences, and when we know that learning differences have increased and, on the other hand, we have as many as 9,000 young people from primary school every year who do not have the necessary basic skills to succeed in the second stage, it is very important that this two-year pre-school experiment should now also start. During the last term of the government, there was an experiment on the free provision of early childhood education for the five-year-olds, and the results were very positive. It increased the participation rate in early childhood education and also improved the school capacity of these early childhood children, smoothing out differences by school. Therefore, it may have been hoped that even more rapid progress could have been made in this area and that, on the basis of the pre-school experience, this approach could be consolidated on the basis of the results obtained. I therefore propose a draft statement in which Parliament requires that two-year pre-school education be consolidated as a national operating model on the basis of the results of the experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u235	Mr President! Perhaps in this twilight the idea is starting to fly a little too much, but it just occurred to me that when these kinds of experiments are carried out, it sometimes feels like a 20-year parenting experiment with children and young people would be in order, when it seems that too many children and young people do not have the safe adult who would take life forward in any way, and the school is, as it were, the last place in which they try to catch, but it is not possible for everyone, even at the beginning of education there. In a sense, we also have a great deal to do in this society to promote and develop parenthood, that we have the safe adult — the safe listening ear, the lap to which you can return and go even a little older, that someone should be present and listen. Then we would probably have fewer of these young people who enjoy that train station gate and other places. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u236	Mr President! I support the statement made by Mr Multala. Representative Kyllönen: I fully agree with you. I noticed that there was some such ad with a picture of the family pet, and there was a headline that the best gift is the presence. I would say that it should be put on, as if tattooed on the paws of all parents, that the best gift is the presence — and especially the presence of a safe adult, every young person should have. And I'd go straight to practice. I wouldn't even try it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u237	Mr President! Indeed, this experiment in two years of pre-school education and the amendment of the early childhood education law are to be welcomed and good, and of course it was already tried last season, but perhaps it is also good to continue and get them from where they are going. As a matter of principle, as we now have an extension of compulsory school age in this Parliament, I would have liked to have been able to think, in the same way as the big reform, that we would first proceed through these experiments and only then be seen, but now, unfortunately, the situation is quite different with it. The government introduced it as a budget law, which has meant, among other things, a very tight timetable for the Committee on Culture, Education, the Committee on Administrative Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But it is good that progress can be made in this area in such a way as to take the two-year experiment in pre-school education. However, it can be seen that many young people who have completed primary school do not have the necessary literacy skills to complete their secondary education, and that is why the most important thing is that we have eyes turned on them for the early years and that we may also be able to do some of this experiment, and that municipalities and cities are more closely involved in pre-school education during the two-year period as well, in order to promote that support and measures for problems and shared educational responsibility are available there at an early stage. Mrs Kyllönen's idea of a parenting experiment and that it should be sufficient for everyone, at least one safe adult or parent, is quite a worthy idea. Since I know Mrs Kyllönen, I know that with great warmth and also with such heartfeltness you said, and it is easy to agree with. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u238	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 18/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u239	Mr President! In this situation, although it is proposed that temporary changes should be made to prepare for the spread of covid-19, I would like to remind colleagues that our entire public transport and service transport chain is in a very difficult and challenging situation and that it will certainly not change very quickly after this covid situation has been eased. In other words, VR, HSL, public transport on a large scale, buses, taxis, the whole chain, the whole field, which is connected to this, are in a very difficult situation. And also what we are all talking about as a group: for this type of public transport and for this type of organised transport, we should be able to increase the proportion of traffic. At the moment, we are in a very difficult situation to achieve this in the post-column period, so that we are awake to the fact that we also have businesses and operators after the corona epidemic is hopefully sometimes behind us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u240	Mr President! Mr Kyllönen, former Minister of Transport, spoke well. I have reserved my own contribution on the same subject. So now we're packing to be a little bit that this corona will take all our thoughts. I've often said that when you're always looking at the ball, we're looking at the corona ball. We should see what this corona does and what the bottom line has been. For example, that situation may have been very difficult in the municipalities, let alone when there is this corona. Let us now take this as a ‘transport service’. It is a wonderful idea that we have transport as a service, because every person's basic needs include moving and not everyone has their own car. We need these public transport. It is important that such temporary solutions should now be taken in this situation of interest rates, of course. But we should think, just as Mrs Kyllönen has said here, about tomorrow, that we will actually have these. After all, there is now a risk that transport companies and taxis and these will go bankrupt, and then it will not be very easy to get them out of there. And then there will also be a complete depression among these entrepreneurs. In this situation of interest rates, we should remember now that we are in favour of small entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in this situation supporting each of them themselves and buying that particular domestic service, including domestic service. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u241	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 32/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u242	Mr President! This is therefore a question of changing the distribution of corporation tax for the benefit of municipalities. There will be a permanent change of 2% to compensate for these reductions in early childhood education fees, and then, of course, there will once again be very important support measures for the municipal side in this interest rate situation, i.e. an increase of 10 percentage points to facilitate the impact of the pandemic on the municipal level. It is quite clear that this proposal is very necessary, worthwhile and important, because we all know that basic human services are provided in municipalities and there is often a very difficult situation at the moment, and here is the state's reception to safeguard the services. We note in the section's report these tax consequences. For example, this 10% change will have a tax revenue effect of around 550 million next year, and with this permanent increase in total next year, for example, corporate tax revenue will increase by 111 million, i.e. it will all be talking about quite large sums, which are very important. In a similar way to last spring, when these changes were made to the distribution of corporation tax, whether this is the correct way of allocating this between municipalities, but we do say that this is, of course, the case for the municipalities most affected by the reduction in corporation tax revenue, and that is why, in any case, in committee, we consider this chosen form to be appropriate. And, of course, this must be remembered all the time in the spring as well as here in the autumn, that this share of corporate tax revenue is not the only way to compensate municipalities for tax losses, but, in general, it will also be easier for municipalities in general, for example, through state subsidies, to influence and compensate for these direct interest payments. A positive proposal, and we are naturally in favour of adopting this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u243	Mr President! As Mr Viitanen said, it is a very difficult situation in the municipalities. This year, the government and the state have compensated municipalities for interest payments, but also other income losses to a significant extent, and it has even led to a positive result in some municipalities. However, for next year, the situation is much more difficult, and now that the government is still introducing new tasks or, for example, this law — which in itself must be supported — the idea of calculating early childhood education fees, we would in fact like to see them reduced even more in the assembly, because not only is it a very good incentive to make a living for families, but it also promotes participation in early childhood education, which the previous proposal also dealt with — the problem in this way of compensating municipalities for the fact that these incomes from corporate taxation do not affect municipalities in terms of the number of children aged 0 to 6, that is the age of early childhood education, or it may rather be said that children aged between 1 and 6 years of early childhood education. There is therefore a risk that these costs will not be fully compensated by municipalities, but that some municipalities will receive greater compensation than other municipalities, for which the compensation may be considerably lower. Well, why is this type of compensation chosen? Well, probably because the state pays a little less to implement it this way. The total amount will not be as high as if it were to be considered through state resources, which are therefore cost-based. My own concern is that in some of these cities, especially in the larger cities, where there are many children who are in early childhood education and who are of early childhood education age, the compensation is now much lower. It is only to be hoped that now that there are more tasks for municipalities — this two-year experiment in pre-school education will come, but then there will be the big reform of compulsory education, the cost of which will not be fully compensated for by the municipalities, at least for next year’s part, that the time will be quite assured of the original statements when you look at the statements of the draft law — and now that next year the government will not have the same rate of interest subsidies for the municipalities, the municipalities will not have to face the wall. Of course, the pressure on tax increases is high in the municipalities and, on the other hand, expenditure cuts from elsewhere, if compensation does not fully cover the increasing costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u244	Mr President! I'll pick up what Mr Multala brought up. This compensation for early childhood education payments is a real problem at a time when it comes to corporate tax income. Large cities have calculated that if compensation for early childhood education payments were made through the state’s share — and thus targeted at people aged 0 to 6 — it would mean about 300 euros per child aged 0 to 6 per city, but now that this compensation for early childhood education payments is made through this government’s corporate tax income, for example, my own home city, Oulu, with a large number of children, has been one of the youngest cities in Europe for a few years, and there are still a lot of children — it is still worth over EUR 100, about EUR 120, per child aged 0 to 6, or about a third of what is really the meaning. In the same period, Turku receives EUR 400 per child aged 0–6, Helsinki receives almost 500 euros per child aged 0-6, but there is Jyväskylä at that level of Oulu. Lahti receives less than 200 euros, Espoo receives over 200 euros, Tampere receives over 200 euros, Vantaa less than 200 euros. In other words, at least Espoo, Tampere, Vantaa, Oulu, Jyväskylä and Lahti from these ten largest cities receive far less per child of early childhood education than if it had been calculated as an average compensation through the state. This does not encourage municipalities, especially if you still think of municipalities with a lot of children aged 0 to 6 and, therefore, certain things, when there has been a time in the spring when there have not been so many children in early childhood education. From that point of view, I really hope that next year, if we have to do these same things again, this will not be the norm. Mr President! One more thing about these subsidies for municipalities: In this context, in general terms, the municipalities had a deficit of several billion dollars coming this year, and now that the government has supported municipalities, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities estimated a surplus of more than 1.2 billion in all municipalities a few weeks ago, but we still have a lot of municipalities that are making a strong deficit. It also shows, therefore, that the municipalities which have been in the front row due to the interest rate and which have been under pressure for the interest rate have not, however, received the subsidies that the state has decided to grant to the municipalities. So in that sense justice is needed there
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u245	Mr President! In that presentation, I forgot to say that, of course, in this context too, as in the past, when intervention measures were put in place in the municipalities, the committee stresses the importance of monitoring. It is quite clear that these changes in tax revenues must be closely monitored by local government and by local government in general, and this is also, of course, what we expect in this paper. In my opinion, the general principle and the general policy that has now been pursued towards the municipalities has been good and good, because it is precisely these losses that have been compensated for by the municipalities. For example, in my own town of Tampere, when this budget council has already been held there, there was more praise than reproach for the state's actions and was seen as absolutely necessary and good and as a salvation in many respects to the city's situation here and now, although now and in the future there will be a challenge everywhere, everyone understands that. It is in the state field, it is a challenging time on the municipal court, but precisely because of the fact that the everyday services of man are produced there in the municipalities, it is certainly a very important principle for each of us that the state also plays its part in that direction and secures these services on a number of different routes. This possibility of corporate tax revenue is one, as mentioned here, and other means are available at all times.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u246	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SIVM 14/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Chairman of the Committee, represented by Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u247	Mr President! It is a question of proposing to amend the Student Support Act. The proposal proposes to provide for a right of study allowance for UK nationals in the context of the right of residence. Due to the interest rate epidemic, it is proposed to take account of the obstacles to the start-up of studies and delays in studies in the terms of the student loan credit. It is also proposed to take into account the delay in studies in the terms of the student loan reduction. The committee supports the government's proposal to amend the Student Aid Act to take into account the effects of the corona virus epidemic on the study conditions of university students and the definition of the right of permanent residence of a UK citizen and his family member due to the EU separation. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Education considers that the Government's proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the adoption of the draft law contained in the government proposal without amendment. Firstly, the right of residence and the right of study allowance for British citizens. A national of the United Kingdom and a member of his family may, under the conditions laid down in Article 15 of the Treaty on European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community, have the right to permanent residence in Finland. Under the proposal, a foreign national of the United Kingdom or a member of his family who resides in Finland on a permanent basis and whose residence is not based on study, may be granted student financial aid if his or her right of study is based on a divorce agreement and he/she has a residence permit card issued pursuant to the application procedure provided for in Article 18(1) of the divorce agreement as proof of his/her right of residence within the meaning of Article 33a of the Aliens Act. A provision in accordance with the Government proposal ensures that the above-mentioned persons are eligible for student aid under the same conditions as they are today. The committee considers the proposal for a regulation to be justified. The second theme in this report is credit for student loans and student loan deductions. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the provisions of the Student Aid Act on student loans to take account of delays in credit due to restrictions on exceptional circumstances during the corona epidemic in the terms of student credit and student credit reduction for university students. A student loan credit can be obtained from a person who has raised student loans during university studies and completed a university degree within the time limit. As a student loan credit Kela pays part of the student loan drawn. The student loan credit applies only to university students who have started their first studies leading to a higher education degree on or after 1 August 2014. A student loan reduction is a tax deduction, the acquisition of which is required not only for the raising of a student loan but also for the completion of a university degree within the time limit. The student loan reduction applies to university students who have started their first studies leading to a higher education degree before 1.8.2014. In spring 2020, pursuant to the Temporary Implementing Regulations for exceptional circumstances under the Emergency Act, universities were not legally obliged to organise studies leading to a qualification and their guidance in the target period set for the completion of studies. In addition, on 17 March and 8 April of the regional government authorities. By decisions adopted under the Act on communicable diseases, the premises of educational institutions, universities and universities of applied sciences have been closed between 18 March and 13 May 1920. Distance learning in higher education institutions will continue as a general rule until the end of the academic year 2020-21, as recommended by the Board of Directors. We have stated in this report that, because of these various challenges arising from the covid and corona epidemic, the students have already changed their lives, and that this has required a great deal of resistance to the tournament, and that is why we absolutely believe it is important to move this law forward. Here at the end it states: ‘The committee considers it very important to carry out the assessment of the effectiveness, adequacy and possible need The interest rate epidemic is still ongoing and it is difficult to assess the impact of the epidemic on the chances of completing studies during or after the autumn semester 2020.’ In other words, we encourage this law to move forward quickly and to bring about these facilitations, and also to assess future needs. Our proposal for a decision is: ‘Inadmissibility by the Parliament of a legislative proposal contained in HE208/2020. “ — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u248	Mr President! This is indeed a unanimous report from the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, and it is linked to the fact that the effects of the corona epidemic have led to situations in which students have been unable or very difficult to complete their studies within the period normally prescribed. In Finland, we have an excellent system and an incentive for students to graduate within the specified time frame, i.e. this credit for a student loan. If your studies are completed within the time limit, part of the loan you have taken during your studies may be forgiven or returned after your studies have been completed. This is a very good reform and improvement of our system, and now this proposal really brings a certain amount of flexibility to it because not everyone has been able to complete their studies in this time frame. This presentation also includes issues related to the UK’s resignation from the EU and also made the situation a little more complicated for students who are studying here than when students from an EU country are studying in Finland. For their part, then, flexibility is being introduced to enable them here to complete their studies when this corona epidemic is over. As far as students are concerned, it must also be said and commended to universities that it has been great to see how universities around Finland have also taken this as an opportunity to renew their activities and adapted their activities to these prevailing conditions and have created different opportunities to study at a distance as well and to carry out their studies at a distance. In fact, the studies we have received have shown that it has been gratifying how well the students have been able to complete their studies to a large extent. However, there are many areas of study, such as compulsory traineeships or similar studies, which may not be possible under such conditions where there is a risk of infection, and which will inevitably delay the progress of studies. It may also be necessary to point out in this connection that some universities have opened up open university studies free of charge for larger groups or even for all, such as the University of Eastern Finland, which is of course a fine hand-out for those who, for example, have lost their jobs because of the corona pandemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u249	Mr President! Let me also briefly say that I think it is very important that we do this. There was complete consensus in the committee, but I would just like to stress that it is very important that we now come against these students on this subject too. This is precisely the case with this student loan credit and student loan credit reduction because it is specifically linked to its performance in the target period, and it is not quite possible to comply with those target dates here. In this regard, to which Mr Multala referred, I quite agree that universities and, in general, all of these schools have really been faced with considerable challenges during the last spring. Those challenges go on and we don't know how long this is really going to last. Every now and then, in the Committee on Education, we have heard reports from the Finnish National Board of Education which it regularly produces for us on the subject of the studies in its own sector. Thank you for that. We've been talking about this kind of coronation. Now it looks like it and it comes to my ears that our college students are feeling sick because they now have this distance education going on. Of course, not everyone can, because some people benefit from this distance learning. They feel that it is better suited to their style of learning. But there are very heterogeneous ways for people to learn, and certainly heterogeneous teaching methods at a distance. And that is why it is intended that, even before Christmas, the Committee on Education will hear such a corona hearing, in which we will also be consulting student organisations. We want to pay attention and catch up on the situations where that bad feeling is now occurring, because now every young person who feels bad must get help quickly. Otherwise, it may have long-term consequences and study may be delayed for a long time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u250	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 35/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u251	Mr President! I could not resist asking for the floor when I discovered that there was one thing that was familiar with EU life here. In other words, this proposal is based on a regulation of Parliament and of the Council targeting importers from the Union who import tin, tantalum and tungsten and their ores from conflict areas and gold, or so-called conflict minerals. For the first time in the future, this whole supply chain would be subject to the reinforcement of due diligence obligations. So now this is the first binding regulation at EU level that obliges companies to respect the principle of due diligence on human rights, which is what this due diligence means. And it must be noted that that sustainable mining activity is of great importance. And from time to time, when these domestic operators, who often have foreign roots, are curvatured, we must remember that quite a bit
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u252	The 21st item will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u253	Mr President! Again, I could not keep my hands off that button when it came to this temporary support for afforestation. In fact, this is also an important climate action, because I have at least spoken about this afforestation in the past, but at that EU level, from the point of view that carbon sink can be increased in many ways, and in Finland now that it is being done with wasteland, that is very wise. I would also say that, in the development cooperation package, Finland should put shots on the afforestation side just because it would gradually eliminate soil erosion and desertification, but these are, of course, things that are not necessarily of interest to so many colleagues at this time of night, but I just wanted to mention them here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u255	The 28th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — First signatory of the initiative, Mr Talvitie, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u256	Mr President! Indeed, we are having a referral debate on the legislative initiative I have taken, which is above all equal. In the bill, we propose that every Finnish person who has been married or cohabiting for at least five years should be entitled to a six-month widow's pension, the so-called early retirement pension. Now that is not the case. The current law particularly treats cohabiting and widows under the age of 50, childless and stepfamily widows in an unfair way. Under the current law, they have no right to a widow’s pension, and it is estimated that hundreds of young, childless or stepfamily widows and even thousands of cohabiting spouses, regardless of age, will be affected. There is broad support for this initiative. Among other things, the multi-faceted families of the Parliament and the Young Widows Association have supported the bill and dozens of colleagues from the side of the hall. A correction has been awaited for a long time since the reform of the survivor's pension started in 2017 and in summer 2019 the social partners agreed on the framework for the reform of the survivor's pension. However, on the basis of the media data, it appears that the expected correction would not be forthcoming. That is why the bill is increasingly necessary and timely. This should be taken into account now that the family pension system is being reformed and the Government proposal is expected to come to Parliament in the winter. What is this about on a daily basis? I'm sharing a true story from the summer of 2017. My sister was suddenly widowed when she was 40 — in fact, at the same age as I am now. I remember yesterday’s morning when I was going to drive to FinlandAreena in Pori. I read a note asking you to call me before I go to the wheel of the car. Instead of pori, I headed to South Ostrobothnia, and the following weeks we lived with my sister’s family in a mourning home. In the middle of all the other support and need, I saw my sister reading Kela's letter. So Kela mailed a letter to the mother of the secondary family saying: “Your marriage has been dissolved because your spouse is dead. You have the right to a widow's pension. And instructions on how to apply for support. In the midst of all the other pains, longings and sorrows, it was quite scandalous, for in a few weeks Kela announced otherwise. She did not have the right to a widow’s pension, even the six-month early retirement pension that this bill is about, because she did not have children together with her spouse, only the children of her and her spouse, and she had not yet reached the age of 50. I asked a written question on the subject last spring, which led me to receive a lot of similar messages and everyday stories from people. They repeated the same feeling of injustice. Unfortunately, we cannot correct the status of these widows afterwards, but a change in the law could remedy the situation for future widows. Unfortunately, it affects several young widows every week, including today. It also affects hundreds, if not thousands, of those who have lived long, decades, in a cohabiting relationship but have not been married or have not lived in marriage for five years before the death of the spouse. The bill also proposes a correction to this. In other words, all widows who have been married or cohabiting for five years would be entitled to an initial pension of six months. Mr President! In the current state, the widow’s pension paid by Kela actually has two components: an initial pension of six months, which may start from the beginning of the month following the date of the spouse’s death, if the required conditions are met, and a possible supplementary pension. Paying both in the present state ends when the widow turns 65. When the spouse dies, the widow is entitled to pay the widow’s pension if she and her spouse have or have had a common child. In this case, the age of the widow is irrelevant. If the widow and her spouse do not have a child together, the widow is entitled to a widow’s pension if all of the following conditions are met: the marriage has been completed before the widow’s 50th birthday and the spouse 65th birthday, the marriage has continued for at least five years before the spouse’s death, and the widow has been at least 50 years old at the death of the spouse, or she has received an invalidity pension under the Employment Pensions Act or the National Pensions Act for at least three years. The problem with the widow’s pension paid by Kela is, therefore, that a widow under 50 who does not share a child with a deceased spouse does not receive a widow’s pension at all, even the six-month old pension. This and the restrictions on the date of marriage and the duration of marriage result in inequalities between widows. However, the young, childless or cohabiting widow has an equal need for financial support during the adjustment phase. The death of the spouse is often an unpredictable crisis, which has a proven impact on the functioning and working capacity of the widow. In addition to the burden of the situation itself, a young widow may face financial difficulties as a result of restrictions on the widow’s pension. Not everyone has a support network, and you may suddenly have to take responsibility for everyday life all by yourself. The age stage is characterised by debt and little wealth. In an acute crisis, it is unreasonable to lose not only a spouse but also a home and, as a result, a familiar local network. The exclusion of childless widows from the Pensions Act shows that there is no desire to identify different family situations or diverse family structures. For example, a stepfamily often lives in a family of children, even though children are not common. In a widowed family, the financial crisis affects children and their opportunities to live and engage in a familiar environment, among other things. Also, restrictions on the date of marriage and the duration of marriage do not recognise the prevalence of cohabiting marriages. A marriage of less than five years may have been preceded by decades of common - law marriage. I got a lot of stories about this, too, last year. One of the most touching stories, perhaps, was that the spouses had been married for 26 years. They had married, and 17 days after that marriage the mate had suddenly passed away. Even though they had been united for 26 years, before the law this widow was deprived of any widow’s right to a widow’s pension. To the household: Under the current legislation, widow’s pension will be reduced after six months of early retirement by taking into account the widow’s own imputed earnings-related pension provision. The reduction usually leads to a situation where no pension is paid after six months. As a young person, the widow’s pension is in practice fixed-term, for a period of six months, and the pension would benefit the lowest-income widows who would otherwise rely on tax-covered social security. Thus, the extension of the widow’s pension entitlement will result in a moderate increase in costs. According to Statistics Finland, 563 persons under 50 were widowed in 2017. Some of them share underage children and are therefore already covered by pension law. The average widow’s pension is EUR 575 per month and more than half of the survivors’ pension is lower than that. Mr President! Finally, the reform of the survivor's pension. Its aim is to update the survivors' pension provision in accordance with the Employment Pensions Act and the National Pensions Act to meet the changed needs of society and families. Thus, the reform has been carried out since 2017, and the social partners have agreed on certain frameworks in summer 2019. The primary objective is to secure the livelihood of the adjustment phase following death. The aim is also to improve the position of children and families with children and to refocus family pension benefits, taking into account changes in working life, family structures and society. What else would it be to take into account, just through equal widow's pension, these changes in working life, family structures and society? The reform of survivors’ pensions includes an agreement between the social partners on extending widow’s pension rights to unmarried couples under certain conditions. However, on the basis of the media data, this government proposal does not correct these status of secondary families or young widows, because if the spouses do not have a child together, they are still classified as childless, even if the daily life is quite different. It would be precisely in this instance that this bill would correct equality. Mr President! The exclusion of widows without children and stepfamily members from the Pensions Act shows that the legislation does not want to identify these different family situations. Extending the right to a widow’s pension to widows under 50 years of age, childless widows and unmarried couples is not a major financial investment. Above all, it is equal pay, which affects hundreds of people each year in the midst of everyday life and difficult, often surprising grief and longing. I have gone through this initiative with the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Markus Salmone, and the vice-chairman of the committee, Mrs Mia Laiho, has signed the bill. Mr Pekonen is also aware of the bill and has also answered a written question in the spring. I therefore appeal to the whole committee to take a legislative initiative, although it does not have a hundred names, but tens of them, when the future reform of the survivors' pensions comes to Parliament and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in the winter to come. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u257	Mr President! Thank you to Mrs Talvitie for this important bill and also for sharing these personal experiences. Certainly no one wishes for a situation for himself or his or her loved ones that the spouse dies unforeseeably, or even if he or she knows it, it is always a very sad situation. And even less would hope for the financial difficulty that may result from the suddenness of being left alone. Of course, it is always a major, major crisis for everyone when a loved one dies. In fact, it is quite unusual that, in a situation where a spouse is divorced, the other spouse is liable for maintenance if the children remain, as it were, primarily for the care of another, but in that situation, if, as Mrs Talvitie described here, the spouse dies and may be concerned, even if both children are not entitled to any social support. And that situation may, of course, be even more difficult financially, because even one’s own ability to work may often suffer for at least some time, even if the age itself is still capable of working. That is why this proposal for every widow to receive a pension for this six-month period, regardless of the age of her own or spouse or whether she has a common child, is very important. And I agree with the hopes that the committee will take this matter on board in the context of the forthcoming Parliament on this issue. And yet this matter, which is not necessarily large in cost to society, is very important to the individual family, that individual widow. Hopefully, in the future, we could be in a situation where all widows are on the same footing and can be in a situation where such a sudden crisis affects them, care for their families and stay in that familiar, safe environment, for example in their own home. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u258	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mrs Talvitie for her very important legislative initiative and for her excellent work on this subject. I would also like to thank you for that presentation and for clearly bringing this matter to the Chamber for information through personal experience. People’s everyday life often finds those shortcomings in the law, and when a representative intervenes and tries to correct them, it is very good. And I also hope that the committee will take on board Mrs Talvitie's fine bill, which I myself signed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u259	Mr President! I too would like to thank Mrs Talvitie very much for this bill which she has presented, the bill on widows' pensions, by way of example, and I must say that it is very much to be welcomed and I warmly support it. The fact that childless and reconstituted families are legally excluded from the widow’s pension seems quite inconceivable. Equality does not work at this point. A widow under 50 who does not have children together with her spouse is not entitled to a widow’s pension. The death of a spouse is in itself such a hard, harsh place that the first thing you probably don't think about is that it also involves this kind of economic side. I hope that this will be treated with merit and that this law will be implemented. Thank you again, Mrs Talvitie, for doing the work on the law. Law initiatives are not that simple to make, and even though it does not have over a hundred names now, it does not mean that it is not behind it. That is why I hope that the law will proceed and be implemented. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u260	Mr President! Representative Talvitie gave an introduction that even the more hardened legislator’s corner of the eye was moistened, from the personal experience and the telling of it. Of course, the starting point is that no one would have to face such legal, legislative, economic bombs in grief and regret any more, as is the case with life in connection with the death that is close to him. And I personally share the same view that I hope that the committee will deal with this with the seriousness and strength of what has been given to Parliament in this House. Equality before the law is something that we should be monitoring, and that is also a big issue in this legislation on widows' pensions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-03-ps-157.u261	Mr President! Thank you, colleagues Multala, Peltokangas, Elomaa and Kyllönen for these encouraging words. It is true that this shows that the Survivors' Pensions Act is mainly provided for about 50 years ago, and in that sense the law really needs to be updated for this millennium and this decade. I have thought that it is of course important that we have a government and an opposition and a government proposal and an opposition proposal. But last season, I made one bill that was a change in the Housing Company Act. There was broad support for it from side to side, and in the end it also went through. It became a very good proposal from the Ministry of Justice at the time of Justice Minister Häkkänen and a unanimous report from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which came into force last spring. And in this regard, too, there is certainly the prospect of this reform of the survivor's pension, which may be an extension to the common-law spouse, but this legislative initiative would then have the opportunity to introduce this right of the young widow to this widow's pension, at least for this six-month period, and in that sense the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will have every opportunity, as Mrs Elomaa said, to take the bill into consideration, even though there are no hundred names in the future, and in that sense I hope that all the members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will take this issue seriously, and then we will be able to draw up. I also understand that, even though this comes from this Kela family pension, now that the government has given certain things to the social partners to frame, the social partners may not have understood that, when they work on certain matters from that table, they also scrape this Kela family pension and who is entitled to the family pension, in a way, two laws go a little further. But thank you very much for this encouragement and support, and I hope that the bill will receive a worthy reading in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. - Thank you.
