ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u2	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u3	Mr President! At Helsinki Airport, 180 flights are still operated on Friday. Since the start of the crisis, up to 200,000 people have arrived in high-risk areas, including Italy and Spain. At the airport, alerts and alerts are used on the display screen to ask people to go to conditions similar to quarantine for two weeks. These people have not been met by the Health Authority. Many people do not hear or care about instructions. They move from the airport around Finland, even in public transport. Finavia cannot take action by the authorities, the Border Guard has no authority, the THL experts were told that people came as a surprise, and there was a data breach in the Ministry. Mr President! This activity is spreading the virus. Restrictive measures don't help when the virus spreads from abroad. I ask the government: how is this possible? Who made the mistake? What are you going to do to reach these people?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u4	Mr President! Minister Kiuru would certainly be able to explain this situation more precisely, as certainly some of the ministers present, but it is quite clear that when you arrive in the country, you have to go into quarantine on your own. The Government has already outlined this measure in the past. So when you arrive in the country, you have to quarantine yourself for two weeks, have nothing to do with other people. My view is that there have not been sufficiently clear guidelines here — as the representative described — and my view is also that this situation has been addressed and that both health care staff have been directed to the place and clear instructions have been given to passengers on how to proceed. I know that attention has been paid to this issue and that an active effort has also been made to resolve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u6	Mr President! Hospitals are concerned that there are not enough protective equipment, such as respiratory shields. The same will be heard from many other sectors requiring close contact — already at the beginning of the epidemic. On Monday, it was reported that supply security stocks were opened and sufficient supplies were transported to units. However, the messages about the few shelters have not stopped. The experts in Finland only found out that there will be more working-age people in intensive care due to the corona and that the virus will also bring down younger people. This will further hamper the adequacy of healthcare capacity, especially intensive care facilities. People are told that we are very well prepared. I will ask the government: How long will the emergency storage facilities last for? How many new respirators have we got? What are the arguments that Finland is well prepared for its corona pandemic?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u7	Mr President! We are prepared according to our pandemic contingency plan, and accordingly the supply reserves have also been fulfilled. We have existing legislation on the amount of these protective equipment we need to have in the security of supply warehouses. As Mr Purra has already said in his question, these security of supply stocks have historically been opened at the beginning of this week and millions of copies have already been delivered to five special areas of responsibility all over Finland, and these facilities are being delivered to hospitals for use. At the same time, we are constantly filling up stocks. We cannot live in a situation where we live on the sole basis of this existing stock, but it is clear that these stocks must be replenished at all times. We have already ordered more protective equipment on the international market,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u8	Mr President! Security of supply is my responsibility. After all, we have a good system in Finland, so that we have a security of supply centre that prepares for all crises. We also have these protective equipment in storage at the Security of Supply Centre and, at the request of STM, these security stocks have now been opened — only at the request of the relevant Ministry — and have now been delivered through STM and hospital districts to health care units. These stocks are constantly being replenished. We are purchasing, and our experts are looking for all logistical possibilities to complete these stocks for all these instruments. So we've got this covered. All of this is an official activity, and it is well equipped in Finland, and this is done at full power.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u9	Then let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u10	Mr President! As early as 2009, during swine flu, it was found that Finland lacks breathing machines and also nurses who know how to use breathing machines. That's when. The armed forces have restored 40 planes. This pandemic preparedness plan was last updated in 2012. Is it time to update this plan? I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office, how many breathing machines do we have? What is the situation with respiratory protection devices, are there enough in this crisis for everyone around Finland? You told me, Minister, that millions of shields have already been distributed from the reserve to use. Is there gonna be that million? Mr President! We are in the midst of a very shocking crisis and medical staff need answers, as do people who are afraid of this disease. Tell us what's going on with the ventilators.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u11	Mr President! During that weekend and early week, I made a survey of how domestic production in both of these, both breathing masks and then in these machines, would be possible on a very fast schedule. In Finland we do not have a manufacturer capable of producing this CE III level directly from this point of view — missing machinery, missing raw materials — but some protective equipment can be manufactured. Interestingly, of course, we have a Finnish company that makes these demanding in southern China, and its daily production is about 200,000 copies. So there is, of course, this bridge. With regard to breathing machines, we are currently working on what components we can find, whether such a consortium is to be found and able to start manufacturing. There is a possibility: the Swedish company has a licence for these machines,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u12	Mr President! In this regard, my colleague has already explained the possibility that we could order domestic or other local production or a little longer in the midst of this acute crisis. Another aspect of this question is whether we have users, because knowledge in this case is the key. Although this material is ready to receive new equipment — the use will be tough over the next few months and so there will be no problems, so that all material assistance will be necessary — even in terms of knowledge, we must be prepared to start re-training those people who then have no tasks to do without urgent surgery. They are to be raised to power control stations and then trained from power control stations to perform intensive care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u13	Mr President! Helsinki Sanomat today published an extensive article on coronavirus and its spread. Finland’s estimates of the spread of the virus are tenfold lower than those of British Imperial College and WHO. In Finland, the speeches of politicians and public authorities continue to refer to herd protection, which is unsustainable internationally and ethically, as Professor Pentti Huovinen of the University of Turku says in his article: “It is a strange idea that we should do a herd of protection through the possible spread of the killer virus. “ Professor Vapalahti, who has been interviewed, suggests that it is possible to limit the spread of the virus if everyone stays home for three weeks, while in the meantime improving the testing capacity and other preparedness at a rapid pace. Does the government intend to continue with the idea of herd protection and slow down the infection?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u16	Mr President! The Finnish Government has no strategy of this kind, to which the representative referred, and I have also said this several times to the media. The goal of the Finnish Government is to slow down the epidemic. That is why we are taking these tough restrictive measures, which Parliament is debating today. Yesterday, among other things, we have issued a regulation to Parliament to restrict mobility. These are tough measures affecting fundamental rights. So we want to slow down the epidemic. Another thing we want to do is to ensure that the carrying capacity of Finnish health care is safeguarded in all situations and that everyone who needs care is treated. The third element is the protection of groups at risk, i.e. the protection of the elderly and people with underlying diseases in particular, would not be infected and therefore their lives or health would not be put at risk. These are the objectives of the government,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u17	Mr President! The interest is moving forward, and we need to take action. Restrictive measures must be taken for this progress, but at the same time measures must be taken to safeguard Finnish jobs and the survival of companies. In other words, we need direct support for businesses and we need these good measures as such. But in addition to that, Prime Minister, we need a view: we need a view of how long you need to be there at home, when you can start moving, when you can open the restaurant. There is a big question behind this which I have been wondering about during a couple of weeks, a month, a crisis management period: what is the scenario in which the government bases these measures, which in themselves are now decisive? There must be a scenario, there must be a clear strategy, how to get out of this, what we are, and at what pace to combat, how we are helping and protecting the well-being of jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u18	Mr President! The Government's strategy now is to deal with the acute crisis and at the same time ensure that Finland is a welfare state in the future. At the moment, we are using all our energy and resources to protect Finnish people from this disease, and we are also taking tough measures to succeed in this. At the same time, the government has also provided Parliament with an amending budget on a timely basis and, together with all the parliamentary parties, has also increased the budget for this amending budget. The purpose of these measures is, above all, to help Finnish companies to overcome this acute crisis, to ensure that we have jobs in the future and that we will have jobs in the future, and thus also to build a more solid economic basis for the future and thus also a basis for prosperity in the future. The government is currently focusing on dealing with this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u19	Mr President! The problem of interest rates is a very serious threat and can only be tackled together. All of us Finns have to do our part, each of us has to do everything in our power to avoid close contact. In this exceptional situation, when fundamental human rights are restricted, particularly in the case of Uusimaa, it is very important that there is no leak in the fight against the spread of the disease. The government itself has instructed people to return to Finland, so it has certainly not come as a surprise that there have been and will be more returnees. Minister for Foreign Affairs Haavisto said today that there are still some 40,000 Finnish passengers worldwide and a few thousand passengers are looking for a return route to Finland. The government is the body that leads to the fight against the crisis and guidance. That is why I would ask Prime Minister Marin: how is it possible that the government did not properly instruct the authorities at the airport in time? And I would also like to ask: we can now count on the instructions and regulations being very clear and people being steered from the airport.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u20	Mr President! The Government has stated that everyone returning to Finland must be quarantined. They must establish themselves in quarantine, and it is clear that this guidance must be clear, and it should have been clearer in the past. I myself have thought that this will also be the case. Now we have found that there have been shortcomings and we can no longer influence this, but we can make a difference that from now on all the guidelines are clear, because it is important that people who return to Finland do not spread the disease forward. I cannot say that the government will succeed perfectly in all the activities that we are doing. We are living in uncertainty and we are living one day at a time, but I can tell you that we are doing our best. We will do our best to control this disease and save lives and that Finns can rely on our health care to maintain its carrying capacity,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u21	Mr President! We are living in extremely challenging times. Finland is facing the most serious crisis in the post-war period; there is no need to dodge it any further. When the disease is severe, even the potions must conform to the disease. It seems that the closure of Uusimaa is incomplete. Traffic is still allowed and there is a verbal argument for mobility. How will compliance with closure be monitored if an oral argument is sufficient? How do we find out if they're true? In the same way, is there not a significant risk of an infection leak, as was the case with return flights? Such restrictions are either made properly or they are not made. Otherwise, they will only increase the adverse effects of restrictive measures. At the same time, I ask about the police budget in the amending budget: It has been made before this decision to close Uusimaa, which will swallow resources severely.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u22	Mr President! Thank you to the representative for the good, important questions. This isolation of Uusimaa is about slowing down the spread of this disease. The police are coming to supervise the work. It is quite clear that the contribution that the police are going to make to this is also out of some other police work. There is probably a very common understanding in this Chamber that police resources are already weak and tight. In practice, the police can ask, inter alia, for assistance from the Defence Forces or border guards, although it must also be noted that the return of internal border control also consumes resources from border guards to a very large extent. So I'm sure the Defence Forces will support the police, among other things, in traffic control. The focus is still on people having to follow instructions and recommendations. Not everyone in Finland can be fined by the police. Even now, the police do not monitor the speed of every Finnish traffic on the roads. It is the responsibility of every human being on this issue. We have now received more than EUR 5 million in the amending budget to the police for the first time, and, as you mentioned,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u23	Mr President! Protecting people's lives and health is certainly the top priority for all of us, and, as we have heard here, the articles do not in themselves protect anyone, but it is now up to us whether we have understood that we all need to change our behaviour for each other's benefit. Next comes caring for people’s livelihoods. Today, in the Committee on Finance, we have made quite a lot of additions to the government's basic proposal, and there is a total of about a billion packages that we are trying to ensure that jobs are maintained and that businesses survive this crisis. In Finland, we have many companies, business names and self-employed people who work in sectors where working in fact currently violates these guidelines, which aim, for example, at a distance of one metre. Such professions include hairdressers, cosmetologists, foot nurses, massagers, physiotherapists. I would have liked to ask how the government intends to instruct you,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u24	Mr President! Indeed, as this crisis progresses, it has become clear that Finnish legislation does not provide all the instruments that the government has considered necessary. That is why we have brought to Parliament this week a government proposal to close restaurants, diners, cafes, nightclubs and bars, among other things. This is the kind of instrument that we have never had in legislation before, and that is why we have brought this proposal quickly. Nor do we have any legal instrument, for example, to shut down all such places in society, starting with barbershops, where we will then be able to curb this epidemic. The passing through of this previous whole from Parliament proved challenging, and Parliament has now required a regulation from the government, which will be subject to the parliamentary ex-post review, and further clarifications, and we will provide them. That is why I personally believe that this weekend we will not be able to close these diners and restaurants. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u25	Mr President! The Director-General of the World Health Organisation (WHO) has stressed the importance of extensive testing to combat this epidemic and save lives. He has said that a firefighter does not turn off fire blindfolded — it is impossible to prevent an epidemic if it is not known who is ill. The experience of China, South Korea, Singapore shows that aggressive testing and contact tracing together with social distance and community activation can save lives. Finland has maintained very strict criteria for getting to the test. Even health professionals have found it difficult to get tested, and these capacity problems have been used as grounds. I would argue that, if there were to be a will, then there will be factors and there will be laboratories when we just use the capacity that we have in principle. My question is: is it now the intention of the government to rapidly increase the number of tests?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u26	Mr President! The answer is, yes, yes. You asked about the increase in testing capacity and, as I have said before, we need to raise the testing capacity. It is quite clear that there is a need to test more and more. Where will people be found to do this work during the peak weeks? Surely, then, when Parliament takes a position on the obligation to work, it will be possible to look at this whole from the point of view of all the staff groups where there will be capacity to actually carry out this test. Then where does the diagnostic come from? There has also been progress on this issue, and it must also be remembered that there are currently no such CE-marked testing activities on the market, because of course this virus has not been known for so long that it would have been possible. The THL is also authorised to act as an authority for such tests.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u27	Mr President! For many Finns, work and enterprise have suddenly changed to a situation where negotiations are under way and saving their own business. We are particularly concerned about SMEs, sole entrepreneurs and freelancers. Now companies are applying for aid from Ely centres for rents and other basic expenditure. However, the problem has become that the number of applications has increased exponentially and the Ely Centres have not been able to meet the needs of companies. That is why more resources are now needed for the Ely centres. Mr Government, what is the government doing to improve the operation of the Ely Centres so that businesses and sole proprietors, including hairdressers, can overcome this difficult corona crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u28	Mr President! Congressman Kiljunen, those Ely Centers won't be able to handle it if these lone entrepreneurs go in there. Consider the situation: if 150,000 sole entrepreneurs are suddenly transferred to ely centres, those ely centres are completely blocked. I'm sure you won't be able to get your decisions out in six months. That is why yesterday evening has in fact been started and the previous night and this morning has been turned into a model in which the municipal business could be the director, and this has now been done on a very fast schedule — thanks for working with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. This volume is so big that we won't be able to find the characters in those elys so quickly, no matter how much we recruit at the moment. We are forced to apply for such another model, and of course here comes our own legalism. We have to make a model through which we can run money, because we always have to remember that it is the single entrepreneur, the sole entrepreneur to whom we need the money to go,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u29	Mr President! We are in an exceptional state: familiar routines are broken, children are in remote education at home, older people are not allowed to meet, people are very concerned about their own health and the well-being of their loved ones and their livelihoods. This crisis affects all of us. Some municipalities seem to have a good understanding of their role in these exceptional circumstances and have gone on to develop entirely new services instead of lay-offs: youth work and family services have gone online in these municipalities, older people and people at risk are being reached by telephone, and the services are available. However, this has not been successful for all the municipalities. If we now forget low-threshold mental health services and family support services, we will start a cycle that will take generations to repair. So I ask Minister Kiuru: What kind of measures does the government take to ensure that all municipalities in Finland provide residents with services that support well-being under exceptional circumstances? How to support the availability of low-threshold services, mental health services, student care services and family services throughout the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u30	Mr President! The question is a good one, because it has not been so easy in this country that we could say that everything would have gone straight. That is why we instructed the whole field on Friday that everyone should have a uniform line on the way in which, however, services are available in basic services when the need is obvious and health is threatened. In this respect, we have addressed the problems that have been encountered over the last few weeks. This line is maintained in Finland. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that it is important to keep the initial level functioning and, in this respect, doctors' reception must now be more exemplary in order not to put patients directly on a special level, i.e., in practice, in medical districts where there will be a heavy burden in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u31	Mr President! In many regional companies, the labour force from abroad has been critical for its ability to function. These examples are in primary production, agriculture, horticulture, where seasonal workers are necessary. At the same time, as we have seen in this debate, I believe that through the negotiations we have a six-digit number of people who are currently being laid off and perhaps even being laid off. I have two questions for the government: How will the availability of labour in seasonal critical industries be secured? And the second question: what kind of measures does the government take forward so that problems of confrontation are dealt with, that is, how can workers who are laid off be put to work in those sectors where there is a need for labour?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u32	Mr President! At the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, we have received a number of concerns about the fact that, when seasonal workers are not available now, what is being done to ensure, for example, that the workforce is available in agriculture, berry farms and elsewhere. On the agricultural side, there are many things to be done, other than berry picking, and there are all sorts of things where foreign workers have previously been available as seasonal workers, and now that it is prevented, of course, this is a big issue. It is also a question of security of supply, and I think that we should look at and prepare this question from this point of view to enable the workers here, including those with a migrant background who may be doing another job, to change the system in such a way that they can move on to other tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u33	Mr President! This is a unique situation and, of course, the government cannot blame itself for the fact that things are not going perfectly. In some respects, however, decision-making has stumbled in a way that is difficult to understand even in these circumstances: people have been flown without any control from the worst epidemic areas, and Finland was the only Schengen country that did not restrict traffic to Russia and Russia — this is essential because nobody knows what the situation is in the eastern neighbour. Let's hope we've learned from all these trickery. Restrictive action will have the greatest impact when it is done in time. In Italy, they were not made in time and the mark has been in line with it. My question concerns how the government evaluates the development of Finland’s neighbouring countries and its possible reflective effects on Finland. We do not know about Russia, as has been said, but Sweden has chosen a very different strategy than everyone else. Well, it could end well or it could end in disaster.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u34	Mr President! Finland has closed its external borders and its borders, with the exception of the northern and western borders, where there are natural areas of employment. In these areas, the necessary work is still allowed: you can cross the border, work and return to your home. There are natural employment areas, which is why this line is different in this respect, but otherwise traffic as well as coming to Finland is severely restricted. On the other hand, we want freight transport to continue to run. Goods transport is allowed, and it is absolutely essential that food and other supplies, both industry and people, are provided in Finland as well, so that the goods are secured. We have also been discussing this border issue at the European Council, and today we also have a videoconference at the European Council which talks about these borders, and we have a common line here. In other words, the external borders are closed, but EU citizens can still travel through Finland to their countries of origin. For example, a flight can come through Finland and go to another EU country — this is still possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u35	Mr President! When asked about this line, the Finnish line has been clear from the outset in that we chose this line of limitation and blocking from the point of view of the contacts. The less people who have been exposed or infected have contact, the more effective this will be. At first, it meant that large-scale home quarantines were carried out in our country, as you remember, for schools and for people who were exposed. This line in the early stages worked. Many other countries in the early stages failed to do so. In addition to the suspicion that these chains of infection would no longer be able to hold together in the future, deeper, more stringent restrictive measures were already being prepared in advance. These measures have not been implemented in all countries. In this respect, the measures which the government was able to take were taken. The actions that have now been taken together with Parliament,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u36	Mr President! The world’s examples show that the most successful work is done as early as possible by the firm actions that have been set. This applies not only to mobility but also to testing. South Korea, Singapore and even China are tested much more than we do in Finland. Now we have a ban on moving away from Uusimaa, and that is good in itself, but if you look at these people from abroad, for example, yesterday a friend of mine who came to Helsinki Airport at Finnair said that there were hardly any instructions on quarantine, what that means. A person who does not know what quarantine is should be explained with his hand,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u39	Mr President! With regard to this package and with regard to these tough restrictive measures: I also think it is important to learn something from this crisis, and now we see that our legislation has a rigidity and rigidity that, in a crisis situation, is not likely to resolve the situation. We have also had shortcomings in the legislation, a good example of which is that we have not been able to close restaurants in Finland, for example, within the framework of the current legislation. Now we have brought to Parliament a government regulation on mobility restrictions, this Article 118 of the Emergency Act, and I really hope that it will be brought through Parliament and that these restrictions on movement will be introduced. From the Government's point of view and from the point of view of our health, these are necessary, but this is in the hands of the Constitutional Committee and Parliament. As this crisis progresses, it has become very clear that our legislation is rigid. It is, for example, preparedness legislation, in many respects that we have a number of different points behind the lock.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u40	Mr President! I believe that, at the latest, it is now understood across the board that Finland is now facing the most serious place in post-war history. This is it. This is it. The new information that has come from the progression of this disease, for example, that when the normal intensive care period is about a week, the corona patient seems to have between two and three weeks, means that we have to save every single place of treatment. That is why these measures, which the government is taking — that is to say, restrictions on movement were not in place even during the war in Finland — are absolutely exceptional, but they are absolutely necessary. [Right:Why not? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u41	Mr President! That's a very good conclusion. I agree that neither we humans nor the economy will ever recover if we do not get this corona virus for treatment. We've got to get this thing in the glove. In order to get this into the glove, the first and most essential measure is that social contacts must now be reduced to a minimum.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u42	Mr President! I'm still trying to clarify. Representative Lindtman referred to these restrictions on movement, and there was a cry from the other side of the hall: why was it not done before? I'm trying to spell out what's going on here. I'm trying to spell out what's going on. It is a question of us not being able to introduce the provisions of the Emergency Act, as it were, into the back pocket and then, if necessary, use them, but we can only introduce this Article 118, for example, when everything else has been done, when it is absolutely necessary, and in this respect too, it must be proportionate. Our preparedness legislation has been built in such a way that it is behind a lot of locks. It is not a particularly flexible instrument in a crisis situation. This is understandable because these articles interfere with fundamental human rights. There is a reason why this legislation has been built in this way, but at the same time it must be recognised and noted that it is not the kind of thing that a government can adopt agile, rapid and easily restrictive measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u43	Mr President! As has been well described here in previous speeches, it is if not the most serious, at least the most serious peacetime crises we have ever had in Finland. Here, too, I would like to thank all the parliamentary parties and groups for having been able to deal with this issue in a united manner. I say that neither the government parties nor the opposition parties will succeed in this situation unless we work together. The pressure is high on all of us, and that is why I would like to see no false claims being made here. The Government’s strategy and the Finnish strategy have never been a so-called herd strategy or a search for herd immunity, but the aim has been to prevent the outbreak from going off and protect groups at risk. I want it here to brighten up. We have introduced very exceptional restrictive measures in Finland. Such drastic restrictions on fundamental rights have certainly not been introduced during the peace period. I have been criticized, for example, by older people,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u44	Mr President! This assessment is based on the assessment by our health authorities of what is necessary. And it is necessary to isolate Uusimaa from the rest of Finland by restricting movement between Uusimaa and the rest of Finland. This is primarily aimed at treating all people who need treatment, i.e. ensuring our intensive care capacity throughout Finland. So now those living in Uusimaa need to come back here, and if they need hospitalization, they need to take care of themselves in the Uusimaa region, where distances are shorter and the capacity is relatively good. So this is our goal: to make sure that every person is taken care of. In Uusimaa, the incidence of the disease is twice that of the rest of Finland. And when you also ask whether this should only be in the capital region or in the whole of Uusimaa, we actually have these outbreaks in Uusimaa quite evenly and can therefore be expected and our health authorities assess,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u45	Mr President! Health care in Helsinki is in a situation where the medical staff treating corona patients does not have sufficient protective equipment. They will have to wear the same disposable mask, which is only for 30 minutes, for the whole shift — and I would like to point out that we are talking about medical staff for corona patients. If these goods really exist, why is it that this item from the security of supply warehouses has not moved to these, and is there really enough of this stuff? Then I have also heard from importers that the private side buys and imports goods all the time, but the public side is not properly informed. I have just been informed that a private importer is importing an aircraft load of equipment but the public side has shown no interest and they are now wondering whether they are going to have to sell these protective equipment to Estonia or Norway, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u46	Mr President! In reply to Mrs Packalén with regard to these protective equipment, as I said earlier, the reserves of the Security of Supply Centre have now been opened and these protective equipment will be delivered to all five specific areas of responsibility for which it will be distributed centrally. Of course, I cannot personally know which offices at the moment these equipment has been delivered to, but these equipment has left the warehouses. At the same time, I would also like to say that we are complementing these stocks both on the international market and on the domestic market. In particular, the production of these visors, to which Mrs Packalé may have referred in her speech, has already begun by two different commercial operators here in the country, and that is, of course, extremely good news that we are also getting our own production. At the same time, however, we must also consider the appropriate use of these protective equipment in those areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u47	Mr President! The Government is, of course, in charge of this whole and is making guidelines, but we have every authority within its own remit. That's the way it is. Finland is a democracy and we have democratic institutions that have their own tasks. We have authorities with their own powers and tasks. In the medical districts, we have pandemic plans that will be followed. Neither the Prime Minister nor the individual under the Prime Minister can go to the hospital district, for example, to guide the way in hand. Even in crisis situations, we must trust that the Finnish health authorities, who are top in their field, will be able to do their job — both in our medical districts, in our municipalities and in our Department of Health and Welfare, these people are the best in their field. The Government, the Government, lays down the guidelines, and the Parliament, for its part, approves them or is not approved,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u48	Mr President! Health is, of course, number one, but the symptoms of corona are extensive and serious in society. Many of the companies before the interest rate are healthy, their bills, their payments, their rents are now in a real place: the cashier is empty, there is no cash flow. In the 1990s, more than 30,000 companies fell from our country, and it has been found that the biggest error was that companies could not be allocated or understood to provide direct aid. Well, it wasn't very much there then. We welcome the fact that in Parliament the government's business subsidies for the amending budget have now increased to EUR 1 billion, and it is important that they can be directed to barbers, cafes, gyms, including self-employed people, as the Minister has done. Lintilä noted above. I'd like to ask you two questions. A lot of people are asking if you can get some pure support for that rent payment. My question is, have you considered direct rental aid? Secondly, could VAT be returned to companies in the early years? It would be an effective, quick way of helping these companies beyond this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u49	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Heinos, for the important question. I know what's going on. I myself am the daughter of the assisting family, and I well remember what it was like to grow up in a family in a recession in Finland, where a lot and a lot of businesses fell in close proximity, and those tracks have carried on to this day in this country, and everyone will certainly believe that such a situation must not happen again. This economic blow, which results from the corona, may be deeper than the recession of the 1990s, so everything that can be done is absolutely essential that we now help companies to overcome this exceptional situation. I am grateful to the Committee on Finance for being able to act very quickly when we began to learn how many laid off people are and what is happening. With municipalities, we are now going through how to direct the support of self-employed people to all the necessary expenditure and services. The fact that we will be able to recover the VAT already paid at the beginning of the year requires a larger system reform, but next week we will also be discussing tax legislation here, how to postpone the payment of taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u51	Mr President! Measures have been taken to prevent the spread of the Corona virus, which in many ways limit the fundamental rights of citizens. Unemployment is about to explode into unprecedented numbers in different sectors. Parliament is rapidly adopting a law on the temporary closure of restaurants. This decision alone results in the lay-off or dismissal of tens of thousands of workers and drives thousands of small entrepreneurs into distress. The unemployment funds and the already congested Kela are becoming increasingly congested. The payment periods for unemployment benefits and income support are extended to several months if nothing is done. We must now immediately abandon unnecessary bullying and red tape for the unemployed and make payment decisions quickly, for example by means of an advance procedure. I would ask the minister concerned: How will the government, under these circumstances, secure the smooth functioning of the unemployment funds and Kela and ensure rapid payment of benefits? Authorities have been given strong powers, but what about people’s livelihoods?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u52	Mr President! As Mr Yrttiaho here points out and very well describes, this situation is truly worrying. It's about people's livelihoods, food, medicines, paying bills. We in the government will do everything we can to ensure that we can make a living for people in the midst of this crisis too. We in the government have already said last week that we are now urgently preparing measures to speed up the payment of unemployment benefit and also to prevent this congestion. Of course, it should be noted that Kela also has other benefits that must be paid. At the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, we have monitored the situation in Kela on a daily basis with regard to the payment of these benefits. There is still no such peak in sight, but it is certainly coming, and we are now trying to do everything we can to make this peak even too. This acceleration will also require more money for Kela, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u53	Ärade Herr Talman! Regeringen har tags till kraftiga och välavvägda åtgärder för att bekämpa spridningen av coronaviruses. Besluten är baseade på fact och expertnas analyst. Landets yttre gränser har stängts och Nyland kommer att isoleras. Ändå landar flera flyg per dag på våra flygfält med finländare som på vår upppmaning återvänder hem. Det är viktigt att man på flygfälten har tydliga anvisningar och tar till säkerhetsåtgärder för att Hindra spridningen av viruses. Jag skulle muro fråga minister Harakka hur många finländare man ännu väntar på att ska komba hem, och hur koordinergen med Norden och de övriga EU-länderna går så att de lyckas komma hem.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u54	Irade the Talman! Tack för frågan. Minister Haavisto and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are responsible for these repatriation flights and also for this Nordic cooperation, which I believe is close. After all, he has publicly estimated that some thousands of Finns are still returning on these flights. On the other hand, these commercial flights are waning, and that is what they should be. As far as my powers are concerned, when these exceptional circumstances were established, on 19 March we immediately began to restrict aviation and all air services from abroad were directed to only two airports in mainland Finland, Helsinki and Turku, because these two airports are the only health check airports under international agreements and the Aviation Act, so the conditions and possibilities for managing return flights are good.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u55	Mr President! I will return to this test capacity: Currently, the situation in the special northern area of responsibility is that the reagents required for the analysis of the samples are sufficient for analysis of approximately 100 to 150 samples per day. The need would currently be between 600 and 800 samples. It would be possible to take considerably more samples as such, but the chain would be broken down by that lack of reagent. The basis on which these reagents are delivered to different countries is unclear. It is clear that Finland is not getting enough of them. The manufacture of these reagents takes place mainly in Italy, Spain and the United States. Demand on the world market is currently high and supplies are being competed for at international level. I ask the government: how do you intend to ensure that all the regional laboratories in Finland will in future receive sufficient reagents and other supplies needed for the analysis of samples?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u56	Mr President! The starting point is that everywhere in Finland, where there is a laboratory, this could be done. Not all medical districts have exactly the same status. From the point of view of increasing capacity, sampling points should be increased by smoothing up the sampling process itself, doing two- and three-shift work and also by acquiring new equipment and these reagents requested by the representative. All of this has to be done. At the moment we have been able to raise that capacity to 2100 to 2200 samples per day. Last week, when this issue was discussed in the Chamber, I promised that we would achieve 2300. We are now very close to the fact that it is coming about. So so far, 16000 samples have been tested in Finland, and all in all, you can say that it is much or little compared to other countries, relative to the population base, more than it is thought to be,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-26-ps-35.u57	The third item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the second session to be held today. The Council of Presidents proposes that the following procedure be followed for the sole reading of the draft amending budget: The debate will begin today at the second plenary session on 26 March 2020 with a general debate with a rapid contribution, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, in the order in which I am considering it, we can give responses. The relevant votes will take place today at the end of the general debate at the same session.
