ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u1	The fifth item in the order of business is presented for the presentation of the interim question. Mr Petteri Orpo and Mr 72 other representatives have tabled a mid-term question on the rejection of the economic and employment objectives of the Government Programme. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u2	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u3	Mr President! According to the Government Programme, the Consumer Fees Act will be revised with the aim of removing the barriers to care and increasing the equality of health by, among other things, extending and reasonableing the fees. The current amendment to the Customer Fees Act is ambitious in achieving these objectives. The reform is broad and supported. A key part of the reform is the free access of primary health care nurses. The law in force allows municipalities to charge an adult customer a fee for a carer’s visit, but the level of payment is not regulated by law. Thus, the practices and the level of fees vary from one municipality to another. This means that carers' visits would now be made completely free of charge to customers of all ages. This would help to address early health problems, prevent more serious health problems and take a step towards a basic level free of charge. Also, clinic visits would be free of charge for minors when they are currently subject to the same charges as for adults. In particular, freedom of payment would improve the situation of vulnerable persons and families, especially in situations where there is one or more sick children. The free movement of health services would also be extended in other respects. The law would clarify that mental health care in primary health care is always free of charge. School health care would be made free of charge for pupils of all ages. The services of support centres for victims of sexual crimes and the treatment of HIV infection would also be made available free of charge. The ceiling would remain at EUR 683. However, it would include many new services, which would allow the ceiling to be met much faster and more and more users of the services in the future. As new items, the ceiling would be the fees charged for oral health care, the charges for temporary home care and temporary home hospital care, the fees for various therapies, the fees for distance services and the fees paid for income support. The extension of the ceiling, in particular to payments for oral health care, is likely to reduce health inequalities and is a highly desirable change in the situation in which the challenges facing oral health care are faced. This change would also promote equality between different population groups. For the first time, the Consumer Fees Act would introduce provisions on the determination of long-term housing payments. There is no such regulation in the existing law, and the practices of municipalities, for example in the payment of long-term enhanced service housing, are very varied. In the future, the payment of long-term enhanced service housing would be determined on the basis of the customer’s income in a much similar way as in institutional care. The fee should not exceed 85 % of the customer’s monthly income, which would have been reduced by law. However, the customer should always have at least EUR 164 per month. In turn, the payment of long-term service housing would be determined in the same way as in the continuous and regular service provided at home. Income limits and a payment table would be introduced in the law, where the maximum contribution rate would be determined precisely according to service hours. This would also be an improvement in relation to the current situation, since the legislation in force does not provide for the impact of the amount of service received on the charge for home care. The law would also highlight the obligation of municipalities to lower customer fees if the levying of the charge endangers the customer’s livelihood. This is particularly important. Reduction and non-recovery would also be a priority in relation to income support. In addition, the law would provide for the obligation of the municipality to inform its customers of the rules governing the relief of payments. In this way, customers will be better acquainted with their rights and, if necessary, will be able to demand that the fee be reduced or not collected in full. Mr President! In accordance with the Government Programme, EUR 45 million has been earmarked for the reform on an annual basis. The financing needs for next year amount to EUR 17.9 million, which is due to the entry into force of the legislative amendment in mid 2021. With regard to the ceiling, the changes would take effect from the beginning of the whole calendar year, i.e. from the beginning of 2022. With the Government's proposal, almost a million Finnish social and health care customers would reduce their current costs — a quite significant change. Increasing free-of-charge services and extending the ceiling to new services would improve the position of families with children and customers with high levels of services in particular. This proposal therefore contributes to increasing equality in health and to shifting the focus to preventive services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u4	Thank you for the presentation, Minister Kiuru — and then we will move on to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u5	Mr President! We have a long-awaited and long-awaited legislative reform that will facilitate the everyday lives of many Finns. The reform of the Social and Health Care Customer Fees Act is a very welcome improvement and clarification of customer fees, and it will increase the accessibility and health equality of services. Mr President! The draft law contains many important improvements for citizens. Primary health care nurses' receptions, minor clinic visits, mental health services in primary health care and services provided by support centres for victims of sexual offences become free of charge. Free of charge also supports early intervention in health and mental health problems. This will help to prevent the emergence of the most serious health damage and the suffering and costs it entails. On the other hand, oral health care, temporary home care and home hospital care, physiotherapy, neuropsychological rehabilitation, nutrition therapy, foot care, speech therapy, and other similar treatments, as well as certain remote receptions are excluded. In the future, the invoice should also indicate whether or not the payment in question will raise the ceiling. This is important for the customer's access to information. Proposals for amendments to the cap would improve the financial position of customers, in particular those who use a large number of services. The ceiling for more than one customer would be met during the calendar year, while the burden on customers of using social and health services would be reduced. Mr President! This is a very significant improvement in, for example, oral health care. In particular in the lower socio-economic groups, oral health is generally weaker and the need for treatment is greater. The cost of oral health care is significantly higher than in other health care services and is often an obstacle to proper treatment. So a lot of people who don't have a lot of money don't take care of their teeth because of the payments. In particular, larger dental repairs are not made when there is no annual ceiling for payment. Now oral health care finally comes under the ceiling. I made a legislative initiative on this a few years ago and I am very pleased that this change, which improves public health and reduces inequalities, is now making progress. Mr President! In addition, payments for long-term enhanced service housing will finally be clarified. In the future, the payment of enhanced service housing would correspond to the costs of long-term institutional care, i.e. only one customer charge could be charged for the service. In addition, payment rates for home care would be limited according to service hours. The payment of long-term service housing would also be consistent with the payment of continuous and regular home care. These changes bring much needed clarity to the payment jungle for elderly services. This improves the equality of residents in different regions when differences in billing by municipality are eliminated. Mr President! In addition, the proposal confirms the primacy of customer benefit relief in relation to income support and provides for the obligation of the municipality to ensure that the customer is informed about the provision of relief. It is important that customer fees are now reduced and payment reductions are used more and better communicated, as far too much of the social security payments will end up in recovery. Mr President! The proposed changes are estimated to reduce municipalities' customer fees by a total of EUR 45 million by 22. This would be replaced by a corresponding increase in the central government share of basic services for municipalities, so there is no reason for the municipalities to object to this change. The changes in the Customer Fees Act would have an impact on the customer fees of an estimated one million Finnish social and health care providers, of whom 98% would reduce the current fees. The impact of the change on users of health and social services is particularly felt by families with children, home care customers and people who use a lot of services. A change of law will bring relief to the lives of many deprived persons. Mr President! Customer fees shall not prevent you from seeking treatment. The Left Alliance welcomes the Government's proposal to extend the freedom of payment, extend the health services included in the ceiling and clarify the charges for older services. The changes to the Customer Payments Act improve the situation of many sick, elderly and deprived people. In addition, this change can help to shift the focus of health care towards preventive and low-threshold services, thereby also increasing the cost-effectiveness of the system — dealing with problems on time when it is cheaper and, of course, more humane. Mr President! The Left Alliance's aim has been to combine and reduce social and health care ceilings. There is no such extensive renovation now, but the current customer fee reform is definitely a big improvement and the right step in the direction that customer fees are becoming ever more reasonable. This will bring concrete relief to the lives of many Finns. Mr President! This is a major and important historic reform, and I thank the government for finally having done this and brought it to Parliament. It is now up to Parliament to ensure that this bill can be dealt with as quickly as possible to facilitate the lives of Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u6	Mr President! In Finland, the share of customer fees in healthcare costs is high in international comparisons. That is why this proposal, which makes customer charges more affordable, is indeed welcome, and here there are many very good and worthwhile proposals. When the payment of primary health care nurses’ receptions came into effect at the time, there was a lot of criticism. I very much welcome the fact that these will be free of charge for all age groups in the future. Similarly, it is logical that the free provision of health services to persons under 18 years of age should also be extended to obstetricians. The extension of the ceiling system to include oral health care, temporary home care and also temporary home hospital care, as well as therapy fees, is a very good innovation. The previous speaker has already pointed out that the long-term objective has been to bring together the caps, i.e. the caps on pharmaceuticals and customer fees and travel expenses, because, for the low income, these separate caps may in practice be quite high. Indeed, this has been mentioned for a long time and it has always been promised that this report will be carried out. I hope we will see the day that these ceilings will be brought together. I now pay particular attention to this situation in oral health care, which is also topical in the corona era, in the sense that the so-called nursing debt begins to accumulate in the mouth of Finns, as dental care has now focused mainly on the management of on-call cases in public health care during this corona epidemic. Well, since at the same time the government is planning to abolish private dental benefits for Kela and then, on the public health side, the fees for dental care would again come to the ceiling, I hope that Minister Kiuru will comment on the concerns that may result from this, namely the concern that we will be putting more pressure on public oral health care and, at the same time, growing queues. So how can we ensure that there is sufficient resources in public dental care? If you look at the capital region, then there is a very significant part of oral health care here, especially in the private sector, and if those queues grow very long, then the ceiling will not help, but people will have to seek private dental care or then those mouths will not be taken care of. On the other hand, if these Kela compensations have been removed, it is particularly problematic for low and medium incomes. Then, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the payments for long-term improved service housing, which would be laid down according to the government's proposal and presented in the same way as for long-term institutional care. Indeed, there are considerable problems at the moment, i.e. payment practices vary greatly in different municipalities, but the price of improved service housing everywhere in Finland far exceeds the average monthly earnings-related earnings-related pension. After all, the most challenging situation is if the service housing sector is still in relatively good condition and the need for service is gradually growing. In this case, payments will start to increase, while the elderly’s ability to perceive their own economic situation is deteriorating. The problem is that pricing consists of so many things that it can be difficult to understand the total price for an elderly person or his family. I tried to read this government proposal carefully, but I hope that the Minister will clarify what is really the real change here. Well, it is one concrete change that comes with this EUR 164 resource, which is some kind of improvement compared to the current situation, but if you look at the impact of these various measures on the finances of the municipalities, then there is no such effect here. Are these payments reasonable or not? Why isn't it in these statistics? It is stated here that ‘on average, the customer’s income from the
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u9	Mr President! The aim of the Government proposal is to remove the barriers to treatment and to increase equality in health. Reasonable customer charges and increased freedom of charge lower the threshold for access to treatment and increase the accessibility of services. The honorable goal is that no one will be left without care due to customer fees. Changes are now made with a brisk hand and, yes, with a fresh grip. The current ceiling for health care payments will be significantly extended, i.e. in the future the ceiling will also be increased by oral health care payments, therapy, short-term home care and short-term home care, as well as certain remote services. Payments for income support would also be included in the ceiling. I believe that this is a clear policy change and a welcome reform, i.e. a smart policy. Young people, and thus families, are also given considerable attention. In other words, there would be a total waiver of fees for under 18-year-olds, i.e. there would be free visits for under 18-year-olds as well as visits to the health centre, which are of course the same today, but also visits to hospital clinics and hospital emergency services. Good! This change would be very significant, particularly for children and their families with very high levels of disease and long-term follow-up. It is quite clear that they have been shaking, and their need has been heard at this point. Nursing visits would also be made free of charge for people of all ages. At the moment, a fee may have been charged for carers' visits. This is the point of view of the low threshold and the promotion of health. I also take pleasure in clarifying the freeness of mental health services in basic health care. The current model has not always been equal. We all know how fragile the field of mental health services is. In the future, no fee should be charged to persons under the age of 18 for an unused and irrevocable invitation. This change may therefore help to prevent this kind of underage debt. Of course, I myself think that it is sometimes good to teach young people to take responsibility for the expenses they have agreed. Well, perhaps this kind of humanity aspect is in order. The law would also include provisions on customer charges for home-based services and long-term housing services. Payments would be determined on a uniform basis both in home services and in long-term service housing. President! The proposal should now at least go to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. That's good. I believe that the big picture is in order here, but I am sure that the Committee of Wise Men will also have something to say, perhaps something to change. In fact, with this in mind, I could ask Minister Kiuru for clarification on one point. In the future, therefore, home care support will also be taken into account when calculating the amount of income-related customer fees. I myself was wondering a little bit about the situation of families with children, and I was wondering if this might be a place for a little clarification or some new consideration. This proposal is strongly on the side of the families, but I am not sure about this point. President! Developments are evolving, and so it is now. Thank you to the government and the Minister for a good presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u10	Mr President! Customer fees are a major obstacle to the use of services among people with low incomes. The free of charge of carers' visits, the free access to basic health care and mental health services, as well as the other extensions of the free movement of workers that are now being proposed, are certainly to be welcomed. However, for example, these visits to the health care nurse’s office are currently free of charge for the majority of municipalities — about 40% of municipalities are currently charging some kind of fee. It is also important that, with this reform, this different type of basis for payments is partly harmonised and thus regional equality is improved. In general, customer fees are a very important factor in people’s indebtedness. The statistics showed that a total of 3.4 million enforcement cases were initiated in 2018, of which nearly 390000, or more than 10 per cent, consisted of these social welfare and health care customer fees, and this alone indicates that this current level of payment is currently too high for too many. In that sense, this enlargement of the free movement of goods and, hopefully, the lower threshold for basic health care will also pay for themselves by bringing help to the service in the past. Mrs Räsänen has already pointed out that, now that we are making and expanding the list of charges to be charged to the ceiling — and in particular the oral health care payments and the addition of customer contributions for income support are important — it would certainly be nice if, in this context, it could have been possible to move ahead with the fact that all customer fees, medicines and travels have these separate caps on payments, these caps on payments would be harmonised. In that sense, this is one of the objectives that the Christian Democrats have been pursuing for a very long time in this House, and we have hoped that it will be possible to move forward on this matter in some time. Of course, now that we are back in the process of social reform, at least after that, there will certainly be a time when we should look at this issue. The fact that the caps relate to these links with the calendar year has also been one of these factors, particularly for low incomes. Finally, when the Minister is here, I would like to ask specifically about the continuous and regular provision of services at home. So here, with this reform as a whole,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u11	Mr President! Over the last decade, health care payments have been increased several times, and these increases have increased poverty among many citizens who need a lot of health services or even prevented the use of these services. This group includes a lot of elderly people, and I have been looking at this bill from the perspective of the elderly and also the people with memory problems, because this week we are celebrating Memory Week. The proposal to reform the Customer Fees Act is more than necessary. The central objective is to moderate customer charges. According to Article 11 of the current Customer Fees Act, customer fees may be reduced or not collected in full, but this provision has not been sufficiently complied with and therefore people have been subjected to financial distress or even enforcement due to health care charges. The new law emphasises the priority of reducing and non-recovery of customer charges in relation to income security and at the same time clarifies the regulation of appeals and strengthens the customer's legal protection. In the future, the municipality should provide the customer with sufficient and understandable information on the regulation of relief. This has given me a lot of feedback that this issue may not be adequately shared with customers, and that is one problem. A good innovation is also that more services would be added to the ceiling, i.e. the ceiling will be extended to, among other things, oral health care, temporary home care and home hospital care, as well as certain customer charges for remote services. In the future, the ceiling would also be increased by customer fees, for which income support has been granted. The ceiling would remain unchanged, i.e. EUR 683. The customer should continue to monitor the fulfilment of the ceiling itself, which may be challenging for many people with memory disorders, for example. I would have liked to have found a different solution to this, because I am convinced that modern technology would somehow make this possible. The new rule is that the invoice for the customer fee should indicate whether the fee is generating this ceiling, and this is of course a positive change. From the point of view of many long-term ill persons, a particularly important innovation is that the nurse’s visits become free of charge. For example, a memory nurse is a key person in the construction of a complete care chain for a person with a memory disorder, a support person, and in the future this visit fee will not prevent a memory nurse from attending, as is unfortunately the case at the moment. This is a good step forward, but the long-term objective must be free of charge for all health centre services. Another thing to support in this bill is the inclusion of provisions on customer charges for long-term housing services. Fees would be determined on a uniform basis in the provision of home services and in normal service housing. At the moment, payments are entirely dependent on the municipality, and even within the municipality there is a great deal of variation. In the future, payments for long-term enhanced service housing will be determined in much the same way as payments for long-term institutional care. In this way, charges for customers in need of 24-hour care and care would be charged on as uniform a basis as possible. This is important for the equality of people with memory disorders, as in enhanced service housing the majority of residents are memory ill. It is also a good idea to define personal access, and it is a positive thing that it is now in the same direction everywhere and must be admitted. This will enable important personal needs and wishes to be realised in the future. Mr President! Despite these good changes, more research is needed in Finland on the impact of low income and poverty on the treatment of long-term illnesses and the use of services. In addition to the costs and disadvantages for the individual, the studies should calculate the costs and disadvantages for society. We therefore need more calculation of alternative costs. For example, what is the cost of illnesses caused by sickness or loss of ability to function by the elderly because they have not been able to make sufficient use of the services? There is therefore a great deal of work to be done to reduce poverty and inequality among people with disabilities and older people in the future, but this bill is certainly to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u12	Mr President! Thus, the customer fee reform and the ceiling would be extended to new services, so that in the future the ceiling would also be collected for oral health care, temporary home care, temporary home hospital care and therapy. Customer contributions paid for income support would also raise the ceiling, which would strengthen the last resort of income support and reduce customer dependency on income support. Mr President! This performance contains a lot of good elements. It is a good thing that customer fee reform is finally being carried out. Throughout the parliamentary term, the Finns have raised the issue of non-compliance with the customer fee ceilings and, for example, the fact that there are excessive fees related to medicines. We have three different customer fees caps: the health care fees, the 683 euros, the medicines 572 euros, and then the trips that Kela has reimbursed, which are 300 euros. For example, we Finns have suggested in our alternative budget that it is very important to take measures to determine how and by what means to ensure that people with low means are also able to obtain the medicines they need. This could include the removal or amortisation of medicinal products, or alternatively a combined and reasonable cap on pharmaceuticals, travel expenses and customer fees. Mr President! Of course, there are still some flaws to be corrected in this law. It remains the responsibility of the customer to monitor when the customer fee cap is full, and this can be very challenging for some people. The Sipilä Government's proposal on social welfare reform in the last period suggested that the obligation to monitor the ceiling should have been transferred from the customer to the province, but the present proposal does not propose any changes to the monitoring obligation. I would have asked the Minister why I did. Would it not be much easier for the customer that Kela, for example, would be the one who would follow the ceiling? It is really challenging for older people, among other things. Secondly, we believe that part of the payments will continue to be determined on the basis of gross income. This means that the payment of long-term institutional care is determined on the basis of the customer’s net income, while the payment of a continuous and regular home service is based on the customer’s gross income, and this proposal does not change this. In addition, the customer charge for long-term enhanced service housing would be determined on the basis of net income and the payment of other long-term housing services on the basis of gross income. It is also necessary to highlight this small margin for increased service housing. Yes, I think it is too small money, which will be left to the customer. It's that 164 euros a month, and this is a very small money for that person's own use. Mr President! The problem of infection in Finland is also raised here. It is a good thing that resources are also being allocated here, for example, to HIV-medication, but it is surprising that when the presentation text here tells about the situation and services and the number of people who do not have a municipality of residence in Finland — they have the right to receive medicines and health care — we do not know how many people in this group we have in Finland because they do not have information in the Population Information System or other registers. We Finns have already recently suggested that a person who applies for health care services should be registered so that we may then know how many of them there are and how they will receive that treatment. Finally, I would like to point out that there is a high level of social security charges for enforcement. For example, in 2018, the total number of social welfare customer fees was 39,000, of which 69,000 were health centre fees. Mr President! We will get this to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and then we will certainly go through these issues, and there will certainly be many interesting hearings there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u13	Mr President! In Finland, health care fees are highest in the Nordic countries and cannot be increased. In our country, disease remains a major risk of poverty and exclusion. The aim of this draft law before us is indeed to reduce the barriers to treatment and to increase equality in health. This bill is based on the total reform of the Consumer Fees Act, which was prepared under the leadership of Minister Saarikko, due to a lack of time during the last parliamentary term. It is at the bottom of this, but there are also significant differences when compared to that proposal, and this is only part of the reform. When I started reading this proposal, I thought that we were finally doing the right thing in Finland about the free health care of children — that was the gem of the previous government, the previous parliamentary term, i.e. the Sipilä government, the customer fee reform — but when I read this bill, I noticed that Marin's government and Minister Kiuru have deleted this part of this proposal. I therefore ask, when the Minister is here, whether there has been an assessment of the impact of children on the Sipilä Government's proposal and why this great idea that children's health care in Finland is really free of charge has been removed. Children are still charged for rehabilitation, physiotherapy, day surgery, hospital transportation, institutional care and so on. That would be a good answer for the Minister. Of course, these are value choices, but what is good is what has been pointed out here is that there will be no more medical fees, and what is also good is that children's payments could be included in the parent's ceiling, and that will certainly make it easier for families of children with a lot of illnesses and long-term illnesses. It is also a good thing that the Marin Government and Minister Kiuru did not reject the Sipilä Government's proposal to extend the obligation not to charge customer fees or to reduce the fee if the payments endanger the income of the customer or his family. But it is unfortunate, as has already been pointed out here, that it was rejected that the monitoring of the ceiling would be passed on to the service provider, that is to say, the responsibility rests with many elderly people, and it may be very difficult for them. Among other things, the Regional Administrative Agency has expressed in its opinion in the consultation that the proposed regulation does not guarantee that the most vulnerable customers will also be able to benefit from the ceiling regulation, and that is one of the things that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must assess. What is excellent is that you have here the Sipilä Government's proposal that oral health care should be included in the ceiling. I think it is a huge public health leap, a significant improvement, because poor oral health is a major cause of health inequalities, and that extension of the ceiling also supports the ability of young people to take care of oral health after reaching adulthood. The family background must not be visible in the condition of the teeth, and unfortunately it can even be seen. So this was important. The opinions raised the issue of insufficient public health resources. Here the MPs know that our entire oral health care is built on the idea that almost half of the people are using private services for oral health care — and now, Minister Kiuru, you are going to scrap the Kela allowance and leave half of the Finnish citizens completely blank in oral health care. — The Association of Dentists and Mr Räsänen proposed that Kela be increased as part of this customer fee reform so as to enable people to actually receive its oral health care service. Maybe you could include that in the ceiling. It would also be good for the committee to assess this. Well, the great thing is that mental health services become free of charge, it is excellent and it is clarified. I hope that the therapeutic guarantee will also be introduced as part of employment measures. — But, Minister Kiuru, what is strange is that the free flow of money disappears immediately if a person with mental health problems is provided with a service and if a somatic problem is treated at the same doctor's office, and that is completely absurd. — — — — For example, when there is a doctor in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, there will certainly be a crowd watching and remedying this malpractice in this bill. It is also difficult that the medical service is subject to a charge and the nurse’s reception is not. In itself, it is not a problem — it is good that there are free carers — but it is quite often teamwork, and there is a risk that this proposal will result in an inappropriate division of labour. I hope that this too, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, will not be distorted by the good division of labour that has enabled better and more effective services. Well, it was wonderful that you, Minister Kiuru, in this presentation during Sipilä's government, submitted the harmonisation of payments for this service housing. — After all, they have varied between municipalities and within municipalities, and there is much to be estimated here. It may be of concern to me that these income limits are different from those in the Sipilä Government's proposal. In this respect, certain elderly people are getting higher payments, and when this payment is progressive and taxation is progressive, many pensioners are really tight. It would be good if this matter were assessed in committee. What may now have to be taken into account is that this proposal is a little behind its time. Many municipalities already have services and housing for older people that are not known in the Social Welfare Act, on which this payment law is based, so that it is good that Parliament should consider that at least this payment law would not hinder the development of services for the elderly. There is a lot of good in this, but perhaps in the end these economic effects: Unfortunately, they have been inadequately assessed, as have many of Marin's government's proposals, i.e. they will be replaced and compensated for by less than costs. Perhaps the Committee on Finance should also give an opinion on this. Mr President! In conclusion, the Chancellor of Justice has particularly pointed out this draft law and considered it a risk that such a proposal will lead to congestion of services and more difficult access to services as a result of its queue. That is certainly why this is also important in the Committee on Budgets, so that this well-intentioned proposal does not weaken [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u14	Mr President! Customer payment law reform has been long awaited. Unfortunately, last season it was not dealt with, but it is here now, fortunately. It affects all Finns. The less revenue is available, the more significant, of course, those payments become. The great thing about this proposal is, as was the case with Sipilä's government's proposal, that the ceiling is now considered to include the fees for oral health care. Oral health care is an important part of people's overall well-being and health, and it also plays a role in exclusion, in getting work. A healthy mouth is also a certain kind of business card for other services and social contacts. The increase in customer charges for long-term enhanced service housing and long-term family care can also be considered a well-founded and good reform here. It brings customers of long-term enhanced service housing, family care and long-term institutional care into an equal position when determining payments. This is a clear issue of equality which, fortunately, will now be corrected. It has been defined that EUR 165 per month would remain available. It has been considered to be a low margin of use in the opinions, given the fact that it is necessary, however, to obtain personal hygiene supplies, leisure activities, spectacles, personal aids and medicines, which, however, must be paid for the sum of EUR 165. Free ownership is also relatively high, and for many sick or long-term sick people, the situation will be challenging early in the year when all the caps have been reset at the turn of the year and the expenses will have to be paid in full. Often the same patients also have a lot of both social and health care services and travel expenses and high medical costs. For example, some of the elderly on low incomes have failed to apply for health services because of their financial situation. The good news is, of course, that for minors, the clinic visits are free of charge. It is only unfortunate that not all health care services for children have been introduced to this, as was the case with the previous one, In the Sipilä Government’s proposal — so that we can really get the needs of the children done properly — the health services that are not just the clinic visit but that involve much more, and of course the therapy and rehabilitation are the most important. It is important that these should also be included in the free movement of goods. Mr President! According to preliminary impact assessments, as some have been done here, a change in the law would have significant cost implications for the finances of municipalities. If implemented, these proposals would mean significant changes in municipalities' customer income. In addition, the impact assessments are completely missing, for example, the financial assessment of housing charges as well as the assessment of new forms of services. This possible decrease in the share of customer fee funding should be taken into account in the central government transfers of municipalities. After all, 45 million have been budgeted for this bill, but the Municipal Council, for example, estimates that the cost to municipalities is about 58 million. I would like to raise the same concern that has also arisen here: the congestion of services. At the moment, we have a nursing debt due to the interest rate and have already had queues, especially for oral health care. How does this bill affect the demand for their services? At the same time, the government has planned to reduce Kela compensation for private medical visits. This can have a significant impact. The increase in Kela benefits in this situation would be welcome in terms of dental visits as well as in terms of other medical visits. The shortcoming here is that the monitoring of the ceiling is now left to the customer himself. We know that many users of services who use the services included in the ceiling are multi-sick, old people, and managing to follow the ceiling itself is not quite simple. It would have been desirable if the obligation to monitor the ceiling had been removed from the customer, as suggested in the previous proposal. I would also like to address the question of mental health patients in connection with medical visits to health services. It is unusual that if someone else is present at the same visit, a physical problem that comes up in connection with a mental - health visit, you cannot intervene without fearing that you will then have to pay for it. It is good that we now have this in Parliament. I am sure that in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health we will go through this carefully and, of course, try to make the possible changes that we can make.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u15	Mr President! It is difficult to imagine that there would be a single representative in this Chamber who would be satisfied with the operation of the social and health care system. Yet, even with this bill, it cannot be corrected. Last year, more than 450,000 social security contributions were due to the enforcement. Not everyone can afford to suffer in an inclusive and competent Finland either. Countless millions are being taken away from those in a vulnerable position in the pockets of collection companies. The most offensive thing is that these people are also being deprived of credit data and, as a result, full membership of society for years or even for the rest of their lives. We've got millions of inheritors traveling to tax havens. The bill falls multiplely to the poor, the municipalities and the state. Of course, the best remedy would be money to extend the free provision of services to the most deprived. It is absurd to write a very small invoice first and then, in the event of late payment, to launch a huge machinery to recover the claim and to determine the customer's ability to pay. The amount needed for the most deprived free-of-charge social services is apparently far too small for the government suffering from billions of blindness to be taken into account. Ironically, the costs of the current collection and enforcement and the economic, health and social problems they cause would cover the necessary services. Mr President! Overall reform would therefore be necessary, but with minor changes, this partial reform could also remedy the most glaring shortcomings and also save money. Subsidiarity of income support over customer charges should not lead to an explosion of double labour, as it now threatens to do. The right to a reduction or non-recovery must be determined at the same time and on the same criteria as the right to income support. As billing is based on eligible decisions on the payment, the customer/municipality or joint municipal authority should only be responsible for the billing and its voluntary recovery. For example, the total cost of recovering directly enforceable claims may not exceed EUR 51 in total, but in reality the arbitrary behaviour of recovery companies is something quite different. Therefore, the municipality or joint municipal authority must also be responsible for the legality of voluntary recovery, even if it uses, for example, a collection company as a technical biller. Furthermore, this requirement does not infringe the right of local self-determination. Instructions to be added to the invoices on how to make an adjustment and on how to reduce or not to collect the fee are in itself a good thing. In practice, however, dealing with such matters within the required time frame often exceeds the capacity of the customer of social and health services. Therefore, after sending a payment claim, but before transferring to enforcement, there must be a separate discussion with the customer in which the need for correction or reduction or non-recovery is checked. Mr President! The principle of partial reform of this customer payment law must also be that everyone can afford to suffer and only those who are not willing to pay, not those who are insolvent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u16	Thank you. — And now the hour for this debate is getting full, so I will give Minister Kiuru another five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u17	Mr President! Thank you for your good contributions during this debate. It can be said that it has not been very easy to prepare this bill either, because we all have so many hopes in Parliament as to how this package of payments should be reformed. When we remember that work has already been done on a proposal from the previous government, which has been widely supported by these increases in income over the last period, we are in a situation where quite a bit of the basis of this bill has already been examined together here. However, in recent memory, the fact that the good presentation presented in the last period actually contained the de facto removal of ceilings which made it possible for money to be made available in another way is no longer the case. Last year, the committee also found that this evaluation of expenditure had not been successful, which led to different costs. The unfortunate truth is that during this past year these amounts have been further revised and a very careful presentation has been made of the way in which these costs are assessed. For this reason, despite the fact that there are 45 million available, hopes have been at a very high level. I have to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are certainly a great many of them here in this Chamber, as did the undersigned, who, in the long run, are in favour of pursuing a completely free-of-charge basic activity. In this regard, we are now taking a step towards the free access of carers who alone take 14 million out of this total pot. It must also be acknowledged that it is quite a big leap towards free payment, but not yet the complete leap that many of you have called for. Congressman Sarkomaa asked very well that when there was such a good presentation during the last reign, why not everything was included. It's true. I too would have liked all the services for children to have been immediately free of charge, but when we look at this 45 million framework for this reform, which has been set up in accordance with the Government Programme, we did not have enough money in place to make all this immediately available — and in that respect the leap is now quite large: EUR 22.4 million from EUR 45 million to this, without jeopardising the substantial withdrawal of the payment for other service recipients. That is to say, by removing the ceilings, this reform is not being carried forward now. In this respect, I would also like to draw attention from the point of view of the representatives to the fact that there are not as many available doors as we would all like. As far as the debate is concerned, who will benefit from this, who will be harmed, it is clear that, in a situation where we have such a fragmented system of combining these social contributions, the level of payment and payment will always change. It's obvious. In this case, when we are talking about the recipients of almost one million benefits and, in parallel, we are talking about the loss of 33,000 people, it is important to see which euro amounts are moving, and that too has been very carefully assessed within this bill. I would also like to point out to you that if anyone thinks that the current practice, for example, with regard to services for the elderly, would be equal, the opposite would be the case. After all, these payments vary very much from one municipality to another, and if they are not collected, there will be losses for the people living in those municipalities. But the fact is that we are now seeking a model in which the whole of Finland would be in a fairer situation. I also think that this relief debate is very important. If national legislation makes this reality, both in the last and in the present proposal, then this principle of relief must be taken seriously, and I think that is what Mrs Ranne and many of you spoke about in a very careful way as to why this is important. I would also like to point out that we cannot leave this proposal alone because all payments have been abolished, although I would have liked to have done so already, but at the same time we cannot demand and criticise, at the same time, an enormous amount of additional investment, particularly today, in relation to the issue of the opposition's financial situation. I myself am also a prisoner of this money, but I believe that we have managed to achieve a very balanced whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u18	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u19	We will now resume the debate on item 6 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u20	Mr President! One of Finland’s biggest health challenges is that health problems cannot be addressed in time. We are paying a high price for this, both humanly and economically, as problems accumulate and diseases get worse even if they are deadly. Unfortunately, this problem is highlighted especially in the case of the most low-income Finns. The life expectancy of a low-income man is more than ten years shorter than that of a well-off woman, and this difference has only increased in this millennium. Inequality and income tax are sometimes the subject of a rather colorful political debate, but I hope we can agree that it is not right for one to die more than ten years earlier just because of poverty. Solving health inequalities requires investment in both the quality and accessibility of basic health care, and customer fees play a crucial role here, as even a small customer fee, as it has been studied, raises the threshold to seek help for your own health problems, especially for the poorest Finns. For many, it is precisely the first step in the path of care that a carer visit is being made, and that is why it is particularly great that it is here that the carer visits are now made free of charge. This is of enormous importance in calculating the threshold for seeking treatment. At the same time, it has also been recognised that unfortunately health problems are building up. This will be better taken into account in the future, as more and more services will be covered by the cap. The proposal also identifies the difficult situation of people who have to pay customer fees on the basis of low social security. In the future, customer fees, for which income support has been granted, will raise the ceiling. In addition, this underlines the priority of reducing and non-recovery of customer charges in relation to income security. In many ways, therefore, this proposal brings us closer to a situation where money is not an obstacle to access to health care. Mr President! This reform lowers the threshold for seeking treatment, which has a huge preventive effect. Regrettably, many Finns suffer from serious health problems that could have been controlled with timely treatment or even eliminated at best. This applies to many of Finland’s people’s illnesses, whether it be cardiovascular diseases or mental health problems, which have become Finland’s main cause of incapacity for work. It is therefore particularly good that this proposal clarifies the freeness of mental health services in primary health care and that carers' visits are indeed made free of charge. As I said earlier, it is precisely these carers' visits that are the first step on the path of care for many, whether they are mental health problems or other illnesses, and that is why this abolition is an essential way of lowering the threshold for seeking help. The right-time access to treatment is also supported by the abolition of clinic fees for minors, as many health problems arise at the very age of teenagers or on the threshold of adulthood, and the earlier such problems and risks are identified and prevention is started, the better the Finns can, the better the Finns will be at work and the more money we will also save to deal with the worst health problems. Finally, I would like to raise a small but enormous issue, namely the right to free treatment for victims of sexual violence. It is indeed high time that this problem were now corrected. No victim of violence should have to pay for the help he needs. It is therefore good that the customer fees of the Seri support centres are now being abolished. Of course, it has to be noted here all the time that as more and more Finns get access to health care, the volume and quality of the service must at the same time be invested in it. This is what the government does in many ways, and of course it must also compensate for the effects of these losses on municipalities, because in the end — at least now before the reform of social welfare and health care — those services are produced in the municipalities. It is therefore important to monitor the real impact on municipalities and then, in due time, to reimburse these costs to municipalities, because this will ultimately ensure that money is actually enough to provide quality social and health care services. It is in the interests of all of us that Finns get treatment on time, because it is much cheaper to treat on time than to fix serious problems later.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u21	Mr President! The reform of the Customer Fees Act is a welcome step towards more equal and preventive healthcare. This reform lowers the threshold for the use of basic health services and encourages early transmission. Timeliness in health care is also, to a large extent, a cost-effectiveness issue. Free visits to nurses, outpatient mental health services and underage clinics support the well-being and health of many people and families. The timely contact with health and medical care and the low threshold over which to enter the care room are a change that is genuinely close to the person. It’s a lot easier to ask if I can get help when I don’t have to wonder if after the doctor’s fee there will be money for food at home or if the child can do it this month. In addition, the reform is an important equality measure, as it secures free visits to the victims of sexual offences throughout Finland. Oral health care and temporary home care are provided below the ceiling. I am also pleased that, in addition to physical therapy, other therapies, such as neuropsychological rehabilitation, speech and operational therapy, are also being put under the ceiling. These also affect many families with children. For many customers, this facilitates multiprofessional rehabilitation and takes our society a small step towards equality. However, the next steps should be taken towards free health care for children. Mr President! Although Finnish public health care is often perceived to be cheap, whatever it is on a global scale, we still have a lot of people who are concerned about health care payments and increase the real risk of being subject to enforcement in relation to customer fees. Now the government is taking this up so that the opportunity to receive help and care in a more timely manner becomes a permanent part of the basic health care of our society, and that is why the proposal is more than to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u22	Mr President! The Government Programme addresses the root causes of indebtedness by increasing social security for the most vulnerable and improving access to services. At the end of 2019, the default marking was already over 380,000 Finns. In a survey conducted by the EAPN, the Finnish Network against Poverty, 20 per cent of respondents reported that credit data had passed due to treatment or drug costs. So there are many ways in which the nursing debt accumulates. The interest rate has weakened the financial situation of municipalities and increased the number of waiting lists for care on the non-urgent side of care. The price tag for this crisis cannot be paid for by the most vulnerable. Mr President! The reform of the Customer Fees Act will make it easier for many low incomes to expand the freedom to pay for social services and to make payments more affordable. It is already possible to obtain payment relief by means of a separate application from the municipality of residence. Children's and young people's clinic visits and access to care must not depend on the family's financial situation. The aim of the reform of the Customer Fees Act is that customers do not have to rely on income support to cope with customer charges. Man’s position in the service system must not depend on the municipality in which he lives. This law improves the equality of people and the accessibility of services. This will help us to narrow the gap between well-being and health in Finland. As has already been said in previous speeches, information on payment relief and customer rights must be available easily and easily in every municipality.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u23	Mr President! We are not striving to live on a level playing field here. We will not face the same hardships and challenges and we will never know what one has been through or is going through in his life. Unfortunately, hard work and will mode are not always the keys to a healthy life, no matter how hard you try. Instead, as a society, we have a duty and responsibility to help up when you fall, to walk by your side, when the ladder climbs from the very beginning, have been more flimsy, encouraging and enabling, and to ensure that we do not create unequal opportunities or obstacles to rise, because we decision-makers in this Chamber have the power to choose what kind of support network we are prepared to maintain and create and at what price, because ultimately it is always a value choice, whether we are prepared to take care of everyone. This government, through its presentations to this Chamber, has shown humanity and care, respect for human dignity and a genuine understanding that our relevance is not dependent on how many tax dollars we produce in this country. Having worked for a long time in child protection and on the mental health and substance abuse side, I am genuinely grateful for how this government understands the importance of caring for and supporting people's well-being and how our economy can and will grow and develop in this country. By removing obstacles to timely treatment, we will stop the accumulation of problems and the worsening of health problems, and then we will reduce and prevent human suffering, but also reduce costs in the long term. They say big ships turn slowly. The current reform of the Consumer Fees Act is one of the many ways in which we aim to ensure more equal access to social and health services and to ensure that every Finnish citizen has better access to care for his or her health, as social and health services belong to everyone who needs them. We know that we have more problems in accessing healthcare in Finland than in other Nordic countries. We also know that, according to research data, 20-30 per cent of customers in social services feel that high customer fees and that a poor economic situation hinders access to services. With this important reform of the Consumer Fees Act, we are now expanding the free movement of social and health care services and making reasonable payments. The reform will make the primary health care nurse’s appointments free of charge, and this is an important change, since at present about 40% of municipalities are subject to a charge. From EUR 9 to around EUR 40, it may sound small in this Chamber alongside the large sums, but it is not a small sum for those whose position we are trying to improve with this reform. I would also like to mention that we are now securing free visits to the victims of sexual crimes throughout Finland. This is an important issue, for everyone who has been subjected to such a shocking act deserves all help as quickly as possible and completely free of charge. Finally, I would like to emphasise that although this proposal is important and worthy of support, the work on reform must continue thereafter. We need to look at
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u24	Mr President! During the last government term, one of the most important reforms in people's well-being, a reform of the Consumer Fees Act, was not completed. Now this expected bill is finally here in Parliament in a referral debate. In 2019 more than 450,000 social welfare and health care customer fees ended up in enforcement. In total, the number of customer fees for social welfare services ending in enforcement has doubled over the past ten years. It is unreasonable to think that a person is in debt because of illness. Let's go back a few years. The maximum customer fees for social welfare and health care were greatly increased between 2015 and 2016. As an example, at the beginning of 2016, the level of customer fees was increased at one time by a separate increase of almost 30 per cent. This ceiling was widely introduced in municipalities. In practice, it meant an increase of more than EUR 10 to the hospital’s day of care, for example. In my former work, I saw close to the effects of this historic great increase in people’s lives. For the most low incomes, such increases are disproportionately high. In addition to the increases in customer fees, the contributions to pharmaceuticals and travel expenses have also been increased. This leads to more and more customer payments being paid by means of income support and a growing number of people being forced into enforcement because of these payments. Many resort to quick levers, at their worst, treatment and medication are compromised, and problems are piling up. Low-income households spend more on their income on social and health services and medicines than on high incomes. This includes the elderly and the disadvantaged, who have the greatest need for services and care due to their illness. At its worst, customer fees and higher rates of illness increase the amount of care debt: treatment is not sought and food is bought instead of medicines. Social, economic and health problems are piling up, and it is very expensive for society to fix them. The impact of the bill now under discussion is great: 980,000 people would be reduced in customer fees. The aim is to make carer’s receptions free of charge in primary health care, among other things. In addition, visits to the clinics of minors are made free of charge. This is especially a key relief for vulnerable families when children are suffering. The free provision of mental health services in primary health care will also be clarified and the free provision of care, research and medicines related to communicable diseases extended to some extent. The ceiling will remain unchanged, but the services generating it will expand. The ceiling will also be extended to oral health care, therapy, temporary home care and temporary home hospital care, as well as customer charges for certain remote services. As I said earlier, a large number of people have to rely on income support to cope with customer charges. According to Article 11 of the Client Fees Act, which is already in force today, the customer fee must be withheld or reduced if the payment endangers the livelihood. This is now being further sharpened, as too little of this Article 11 It has been applied in practice. The aim is that customers should not have to rely on income support to cope with customer charges. Therefore, the Customer Fees Act would highlight the priority of reducing and not collecting customer fees in relation to income support. Customers' access to information about the relief or non-recovery of customer charges must also be made more effective. Mr President! The purpose of this bill is to remove treatment barriers and increase health equality in accordance with the Government Programme. In particular, I welcome the fact that regional equality in customer fees would be achieved so that the price of illness would no longer depend on the place of residence. The proposal reduces the financial burden of seeking basic health care, including oral health care and mental health services. At the same time, the focus on social and health care is being shifted to basic services and preventive activities. The Future Social Centre will develop basic services to ensure that these services respond to people’s needs and problems can be addressed in good time. The customer fee reform now presented also supports this development.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u25	Värderade Talman! Regeringens förslag till reform av lagen om klientavgifter inom social- och älsovården är ett steg mot en rättvisare social- och älsovård. Enligt propositionen ska avgiftsfriheten utvidgas och avgifterna göras skäliga och Jämlika i hela landet. Till exempel sjukskötares mottagningar inom primärvården, poliklinikbesök för personer under 18år samt ärenden som henför sig till vården av vivi smittsamma sjukdomar föreslås bli avgiftsfria.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u26	Mr President! This important reform is now a necessary step towards strengthening the basic service and shifting the focus to preventive action. The Future Social Centre will develop basic services to ensure that these services respond to people’s needs and problems can be addressed in good time. The customer fee reform now presented supports this very development. Mr President! Currently, the situation regarding the free movement of mental health services varies from municipality to municipality and it is unclear which mental health services are free of charge for the customer. This proposal now clarifies the freedom to provide basic mental health services and records in the law that they will always be free of charge in the future. It is important to clarify the free movement of persons so that people do not fail to apply for the necessary care because of the fees. In mental health services in particular, it is particularly important to remove additional barriers to access to treatment. Mr President! In the case of families with children, an important reform is the free-of-charge visit of an underage child. Health services are already largely free of charge for minors. However, for example, charges for visits to the clinic may impose financial burdens, especially on low-income families, where the child needs a lot of medical care services or where there are several children with a disability. This reform will therefore be a relief for a great many families.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u27	Mr President! The objective of this reform, which is being discussed, of removing the barriers to treatment and increasing equality of health, is very much to be welcomed. The main concern about the proposal relates to the deteriorating state of public finances and the growing plight of municipalities. This threatens to water down good goals. In many places the services are congested because of the corona. It has been estimated that it will take years to discharge the resulting care and service debt. Ageing will further increase the need for services in the coming years. The objective of tightening access to treatment without haste increases the pressure on public finances. The estimated costs for the lower deck, both for the present proposal and, for example, for compulsory education and nursing, will further reduce the mobility of municipalities and will result in savings and cuts in other services and other items. In turn, the free use of services increases the use of services, which, when resources are scarce, leads to lower availability of services and longer queues. These are important concerns with regard to this proposal, which has a good ultimate objective. Mr President! The reform of the Consumer Fees Act proposed by the Marin Board of Directors is not an overall reform, and the partial reform now does not eliminate the need for a comprehensive reform. It is therefore necessary to consider the need for a partial reform right now, as the overall reform becomes a reality in the context of a possible acceptable social reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u28	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. The debate will take place immediately after the Minister's presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u29	Mr President! The government is proposing to repeal the laws on light cars. In the background, the EU Commission has tightened up its position on Finland’s legislation on light cars. From the Commission's point of view, legislation on light cars is incompatible with Union law. This is a proposal which would therefore eliminate the inconsistency of national legislation with EU law. At the same time, it is a proposal which, unfortunately, does not yet allow light cars to be used in Finland. Mr President! A great deal of work has been done to find a solution suitable for all parties, which would have enabled the legislation on light cars to be amended and brought into line with the requirements of EU legislation. The Commission was aware of the state of Finland's will, and a common way forward was sought through numerous negotiations. In the early stages of the negotiations, the Commission met Finland and proposed to apply for a derogation from the regulation of the Driving Licence Directive. Well, Finland presented its amendments to the Commission and was ready to apply for this derogation in a timely manner. The legislation on light-duty cars would have been amended and thus made light-duty cars available in Finland, subject to national regulations, but when the Commission's legal service levels were strongly opposed to deviations, the Commission was ultimately unable to grant a derogation despite its own proposal. Well, after this, we didn't have much of a choice. The only alternative was to abolish the laws. The entry into force of the laws on the basis of the above criteria is not possible and, on the other hand, the postponement of the entry into force of the laws, taking into account the position of the Chancellor of Justice last autumn, is also not an option. Mr President! When Finland repeals the legislation on light cars, we will avoid the Commission's infringement procedure. It would be very likely to be subject to the infringement procedure and could ultimately lead to the repeal of the legislation in any event, as there are no alternatives to amending the legislation in accordance with EU law. It is also possible that the Commission would bring the matter before the Court of Justice of the European Union and thus that the infringement procedure could ultimately result in financial penalties for Finland. On the other hand, if the laws were not repealed now, it would also create considerable uncertainty for light-duty users while waiting for what the Commission or the Court of Justice of the European Union would say. The repeal of the laws, particularly if it were to take place after entry into force, would cause financial damage to citizens who have converted passenger cars into light cars. In addition to citizens, companies selling light cars and their equipment would also be affected. In view of the fact that there is already evidence of non-compliance with EU law at this stage, the State could also be liable for such damage. Mr President! The repeal of the legislation on light cars at this stage would not affect the current situation in terms of road safety, traffic flow and emissions or the movement of young people. Of course, the impact of the original government proposal on the introduction of light-duty vehicles would not materialise either. However, work on improving road safety for young people and on light cars will not stop there. Active contacts and prior engagement with the Commission will continue in the course of a possible reform of the Driving Licence Directive. The Commission's public consultation on the Driving Licences Directive is due to be opened this autumn. A legislative proposal from the European Union may be submitted in early next year. We are well placed to provide the Commission with concrete proposals and solutions to reform the directive in order to promote the safe movement of young drivers. The Act repealing the law on light-duty vehicles would enter into force on 1 November 2020 and would ensure that legislation on light-duty vehicles does not take effect in time. And then personal regret to the committee for the fact that the committee's handling of this issue is rather short, precisely because the deadline is the beginning of November, and that we have continued to negotiate closely with the Commission and have been looking for new ways of doing things right up to the last few months. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u30	Let's go to the debat. I would ask those Members who wish to make a reply to this question to stand up and press the V button from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u31	Mr President! The Coalition Party is in favour of light cars. We want mopeds for young people and safer means of transport in general. It would have been possible to take account of the comments received from the EU, which has been raised many times in these discussions. Here, too, the left-wing government seems to go behind the back of the EU Commission. However, the Commission offered our country a solution to Finland's application for a derogation from the scope of the Driving Licences Directive. This would also have made it possible to introduce light-duty vehicles in Finland, according to the Commission. Mr President! It seems that this decision has been taken by the left-wing government even before these negotiations with the EU, even though public opinion suggests otherwise. Our young people in Finland need safer means of transport in a country of long distances, and fortunately the time comes when this government no longer exists.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u32	Mr President! First of all, thank the Minister for his excellent report, which was clearly not fully listened to here by the representative of the Assembly, because it was very clear what the EU instructed us to do and how we did it. It must also be pointed out to Mr Heinos that even when you were the second party in charge to promote this light-duty vehicle legislation, the Commission's comment was on the basis and it was known that this might not go through. This is, of course, a pity for all of us. We have had broad support in this Parliament for light car legislation, for a national anomaly, but of course we are working with EU legislation in such a way that it does not conflict, and we are not taking sanctions against the state or causing financial problems for private people or companies as a result of the entry into force of this legislation. We are.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u33	Mr President! However, this light-duty vehicle case tells quite well how absurd the EU is today. The safety of children is put behind the wheel of bureaucracy — an incomprehensible situation. This is a lot of talk about Finland being bigger than its size. What does it mean, and what weight does it have? Well, now we know. Well, that's not exactly true until after France and Italy's moped industry. We do not know how much after that, but the French and Italian motor vehicle industry has more weight than the Finnish state. Everyone can wonder how much power we really have, because we cannot even protect our children sensibly. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u34	Mr President! It is very regrettable that such a good thing falls into EU bureaucracy, as the previous speaker said. The Centre is in favour of the introduction of light-duty car laws in Finland in the future, and Finland should then contribute to a positive solution for light-duty cars in the context of the reform of the EU Driving Licence Directive. As Minister Harakka said, the work is going on, and I sincerely hope that this message will also be taken forward. A mobility device such as light cars would really be good for young people, both for students and for young people to get into hobbies. That would be very important. The fact is that young people need safe means of transport. Lightweight cars are an essential part of the mobility of young people, and the centre continues to support the line that:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u35	Mr President! I have to say, this is a very sad government proposal. This is a sad presentation for Finnish young people, as has been said here, we have all said. They could have moved to safer vehicles, but now the mopeds and other ATVs are still running in that traffic and, as we know, they are unsafe. In fact, complaints were made to the Commission on this matter and, apparently, those complaints from motor vehicle manufacturers in southern Europe, Central Europe, were so hard that the Commission was not prepared to do this — sad. And, of course, Finland is a model student of the EU. It does occur to me that the reputation of the troublemaker could be taken here and that this infringement procedure is beginning to question the fact that it is really such a tough thing for our Republic now, because it is a question of young people's road safety. I'd like to ask you a quick question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u36	Mr President! As the Minister said at the beginning, the EU initially gave Finland a few lines and believed that an exemption for light cars could be possible. However, the EU later took a turn and announced that it was in breach of the Driving Licence Directive.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u39	Mr President! I also support the fact that this kind of light car system for young people comes and thus young drivers will have safer tools to drive. But there must have been the problem now, in principle, that 15-year-olds who do not have proper driving training would have received a machine with a weight of 1,800 kg per hour, plus a couple of thousand kilos. It's different then for the rest of the environment. It is certainly an important point here that there is more to the traffic than that driver. An important point here — and perhaps the essential point — is driving training. The previous driving licence training reform completely eliminated the practice of slippery driving, and driving train foundations and other safety centres are now calling for this to be needed in the future. Now they want to tell you if this is what's coming. I would now like to ask whether there is a need for training courses and if this is the way to get these slippery driving training courses?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u40	Mr President! We need to do what we can to remove the obstacle to the introduction of light-duty vehicles caused by EU legislation. As things stand, we need to focus on helping the future EU driving licence directive to enable light cars to move forward on this important issue. EU legislation in this area is unhelpably outdated. Improving road safety for young people is extremely important. The accident safety of mopeds is poor and replacing them with a more sensible solution would improve road safety. Light-duty cars would be a very good way for young people to move, especially in sparsely populated areas. The mobility of young people between the ages of 15 and 17 is often challenging in our sparsely populated country, so making this easier without compromise in terms of safety is very important. Public consultation of the Commission on the Driving Licence Directive
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u41	Mr President! The European Commission has stated that from the Commission’s point of view, Finnish light-duty vehicle legislation is contrary to EU law and will not exempt Finland from the scope of the Driving Licence Directive. The answer is clear, and I do not see any reason to push EU legislation on light cars any further. The Commission said the same thing last autumn, which meant that an additional one year was requested for the preparation of the Light Trucks Act. It can be said that this law was, as it were, a dead-born motion that at no time really had real prospects of survival. This is not the only similar legal amendment that was pushed through last season despite the warning of experts. People must be able to move around services within a reasonable time, with reasonable effort and cost regardless of age, income level and postal code. More sustainable solutions need to be found to combat transport poverty. The Light Car Act is not, and it is therefore right that the government should now propose to repeal it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u43	Mr President! Perhaps we in this country fear sanctions in vain, because in 2002-2018 Finland has been subjected to these sanctions more than 1800 times, so it is not the end of the world. I would have asked the Minister whether we have an assessment of the Swedish model system so that we do not have to wait for this reform of the driving licence directive, but go in the same way as Sweden has been active in using this kind of own interpretation, and it has been well-established in Swedish legislation for over a decade now. There is a category of A-tractors and it is not a question of any exemption, but the Swedes have been implementing this model for a long time and the Commission has not intervened, neither the French nor the Italians nor the Spanish have complained about it. In other words, can we proceed according to the Swedish model?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u44	Mr. Speaker! You can see the benefits of being a model student in the EU. Finland is paying billions to the EU, but even in such a small matter, the government is afraid to fight back — it can. Well, this proposal is in itself a good example of the extent to which the European Union's decision-making power, its control, has grown, and it is sad for Finnish voters that voters in parliamentary elections cannot influence their everyday affairs, such as the law on light cars, but the regulations are made in the EU and then the Finnish governments humbly listen to them. It is worth stopping here to reflect on this direction of the EU when the President of the Republic has confirmed the entry into force of the law, and now the EU is denying it, and the government is humbling and whistling. Think about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u45	Mr President! This is very regrettable because, as many of us have already shown, light cars would have been much safer for young people, and especially in rural areas, in smaller cities, this mopeding will continue to continue, and we all know its problems of insecurity, and yes it will also be used in cities, especially for hobbies and otherwise. I have no doubt that there has been no attempt to influence the European Union. This was done by the previous government, and I'm sure it's done by the current government, but I have to say that the result is nothing. The result of this influence is completely zero, and nothing can be done about it, and it will not be improved by explaining it. We are now going to have to abolish the law here, or at least the government is going to do so, and that repeal of the law makes no sense. By the way, if there is no other conclusion to be drawn here, then at least there is the fact that motor vehicle manufacturers:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u46	Mr President! Under these circumstances, this government proposal is justified and, of course, it is accompanied by requests for further work to be carried out in such a way as to improve road safety. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is a good idea, particularly in these areas of road safety for young people, to take a rather definite step forward and to reflect on it. Now we have another problem with the renewal of driving licences, the fact that these reduced-age cards for under 18-year-olds have been issued on very light grounds. In other words, when the idea was that, for exceptional reasons, an exception could be made to this age limit, it appeared that it was so that now more than 95% of these applications for exemption had been accepted. That acceptance has become this kind of established habit. This should draw attention to the fact that it, as well as
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u47	Mr President! This law is a little sad in the sense that this was adopted by the previous Parliament by a large majority and, unfortunately, now we have to repeal it. Above all, it has been a question of improving road safety for young people in a sparsely populated area, improving road safety in general and improving young people's ability to engage and do things even where public transport does not go. This is a very big setback, though. I have thought in this way that, when something good needs to be seen here, at least that basic work has been done to ensure that, when the European Union renews this directive, I think that, just as Mr Satone well said, this work has already been carried out, when it has already been done by the previous government and when it has been done by this government, and now that it has not quite reached the result it was supposed to achieve,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u48	Mr President! When it comes to road safety, the phenomenon must be seen as a whole, and that is why the safety of those who do not drive must also be taken into account, among young people whose parents, for example, cannot afford to buy them a light car and who therefore end up walking, cycling or public transport. It is the law of physics that the heavier the vehicle is, the greater the damage it causes when it hits. The faster the vehicle travels, the more likely a person is to drive it, and the more serious the accident is. These facts cannot be denied. Unfortunately, it has also been seen that some young drivers have not acted as responsibly as they should have been, both for mopeds and now for 17-year-olds. Otherwise, it is important to take into account those people who do not have access to cars. In addition to minors, this concerns an increasing proportion of ageing Finland, and therefore public transport
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u49	I will give you four more debatable speeches, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u50	Mr President! Let us think for a moment about the fact that on what basis this was actually rejected in the EU, because, since the 1970s, similar equipment has been in use in Sweden — without more terrible problems, not the threats that the previous speaker said that road safety would have suffered terribly. Or would it have been the fact that, as a whole, the representatives of the government parties have had the greens, because this has clearly come from a couple of Green representatives in the direction that they are very pleased with the rejection of the law in question?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u52	Mr President! This is indeed a question of road safety on the one hand and of young people on the other. As Minister Harakka explained very well, it is a question of this law being incompatible with EU law, and it is therefore wise to whistle the game off. This result was already foreseeable. It is worrying, as has been said here, that there has been an increase in young people's traffic offences and traffic accidents, as driving licences have started to be issued more to minors with an exemption. Since the 18th reform of the Driving Licence Act, 17-year-olds have been allowed to apply for a driving licence more easily and lightly. As has been said here, driving lessons have also been reduced, which has certainly contributed to the fact that young people will experience these accidents. I very much understand the need for young people to move independently in sparsely populated areas, and solutions to this need to be found to reduce climate emissions from transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u53	Mr President! It has to be said, Minister, that this proposal is moderately lax, and, if you look at the big picture, it seems that among the laws of the Finnish Parliament this is not so important, and here we are now appealing to the legal services of the Commission. I was just thinking that, in recent times, this legal service — apparently the same service that the Council uses — was very loudly led in the direction of the interpretation that 750 billion are, as it were, in line with all the agreements, although not even the whole legal service itself took a stand on it. It is a bit of a drag that if this EU really is like this, that even a small thing it patronizes the Member State and in big things it is done as it is done. Here comes such a big contradiction that the citizens are beginning to wonder what this kind of community is, and I agree with the previous speakers who felt that someone won in this lobbying of the Finnish Government from 6 to 0.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u54	I will give the Vice-President and the Chairman the answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u55	Mr President! On the part of the opposition, many speakers have underestimated this infringement procedure, and I would actually like to ask the Minister how you personally see this infringement procedure. Would it take effect, and what would be the likelihood? Do you have any idea what the possible sanctions would be for Finland? There has been very little talk of them here, they have not been mentioned at all. Similarly, the question to the Minister is that the views of the Chancellor of Justice, for example, have not yet been mentioned. When this was the last time, when this extension to the entry into force of the laws was obtained, the Chancellor of Justice, in his own statement, said quite strongly on this issue too. My position is and the position of the centre remains, as I said in my first speech, that we want young people to be able to use light cars in Finland in the future, and I personally hope that through the Driving Licence Directive:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u58	Mr President! Indeed, it has been said here, among other things in Mr Satonen's speech, that the work of influence has been nothing. This is not the case; the matter has not been closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u61	And now, Minister, three minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u62	Mr President! Thank you for this colorful debate that has been expected, in which the motives of mine and the cabinet and the officials were questioned. I would like to remind you that in due course I myself voted in favour of this law. The explanatory memorandum to this bill's Government's proposal states that 28 October, 7 November, 19 November, 12 December and 16 December last year and 17 January, 3.2, 21 February, 28 February and 14 April, 17 April, 4.5, 13 May, 25 May, 27 May and 4.6. In the middle of this corona period, we have been in contact with the Commission and we have tried to bring about a change here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u65	And now let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u66	Mr President! Good Minister and good colleagues! As I said earlier, I am disappointed at the proposal and the solution that is now going to reverse the introduction of light-duty vehicles for young people. During the last parliamentary term, the legislation on light cars adopted by a large majority in Parliament was in the wind during this term of government, and the requested extension now appears to have been revealed as an empty card. It is truly regrettable that no progress is being made on this issue. We have heard good speeches here. For example, the former Minister for Transport, Mrs Kyllönen, highlighted the Swedish model of how Sweden has been able to resolve this, and I am sure that solutions could have been found in Finland too if there had been enough desire to do so. The comments received from the EU could have been addressed and could have been taken into account, for example, these problems or concerns raised by Mr Asell, such as the maximum weight of the car or the number of passengers in the car, or other measures. Speed, for example, was one that was discussed even then. But what I do not understand is that the abolition of this law on light cars would in some way be regarded as an act of road safety, which was also the case here. If we compare mopeds, which are now another alternative to these light cars, then we must remember that today's modern, real cars, which these light cars would be, have collision shields, even external airbags, they have airbags for drivers and automatic collision prevention arrangements, and no motor vehicle has otherwise done any development to minimise the damage that happens when a moped comes into contact with a cyclist or a pedestrian, but this has been given significant attention in ordinary, real small cars. Therefore, these light cars would also have been safer from the point of view of light traffic and pedestrians. And when they had a speed limit of 45, the city would have had a speed of 40. That is what the legislation already provides for today. In other words, this argument that mopeds are safer is not true, and now we have legislation that allows young people, 15-year-olds, to drive tractor cottages, which are by the way many times more dangerous to walkers and cyclists than the mopeds are, and otherwise they have a speed limit of 60 kilometres per hour — the age of 15 years, the tractor cabiner, and it can be driven in Finland. Well, we're running out of options. Many families have bought tractors with a T3B card. Their prices will fall in the future, and they will then become more and more visible on the road, and they will be dangerous to pedestrians and cyclists. Well, there has been some debate on road safety in general, and I would also like to comment on it at the end of my speech. One of the things that has received a lot of publicity is this age-exemption system in which young people aged 17 have obtained driving licences. I personally hope that, with these unfortunate accidents, our debate and atmosphere will not go down the road of a total ban on these age-exemption arrangements. In fact, it would be a huge loss in a country of long distances for many families who need these cars, for example, when they go to school, when they go to study, or when they go to hobbies. That is why, as the Minister has pointed out, measures are being taken, I would like serious consideration to be given to strengthening and restoring additional requirements for driving instruction. Before this 2018 reform, there were more than 40 hours of compulsory driving and theory lessons, and now you can actually get a driving licence for 14 driving hours and 8 theoretical theory classes and some of these driving hours can be driven by a simulator, i.e. without getting in the right car at all. [SunaKymäläinen's interlude] I myself would also be prepared to make a few further tightening ups on driving licences for 17-year-olds, but the main objective should be that we should have access to safer means of transport for young people in a country with long distances. As was pointed out in this debate, we have a lot of areas where public transport does not work even when vocational training is taking place, not to mention evening hobbies or weekend hobbies. And when you bring up criticism and concern, it is good to also bring some solutions. Personally, I would like to see some tightening up of this means-tested exercise. In the past, only a few dozen of these permits were granted a year, in 2019 almost 12,000, and I know how easy it is to get it today in Finland: in practice, a certificate from a summer job is enough for a permanent licence. In my opinion, this need-tested exercise could be tightened up, and another change would be to make claims to check the history of traffic offences. I do not believe that an age exemption should ever be granted to a young person who has previously committed a road traffic offence, and an authorisation that has already been granted should be lost if such an authorisation has been granted. Two last three comments: I have also wondered whether such an age-exemption licence could only be valid from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., for example. Does a young person who receives a card for his studies or hobbies need to drive at night? I don't think so. Could these drivers also have a zero limit on alcohol?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u67	Mr President! Yes, this is a very strange case, as has been said on many occasions, and the end result is clearly disappointing. It is therefore very difficult to accept the contrary of reason, and yes, I am looking in the direction of the European Union. Mr Heinonen is very keen on this issue to be politicised, as it were, in internal politics, or on the opposition exchange, but, on this point, this amazement, after all these measures and after all these means, is certainly in the clumsiness of the European Union. The centre is definitely on the side of light cars for a number of reasons: from a safety point of view, of course, but also from the perspective of equality and freedom of choice. And yes, also the former chairman of the Greens, I think also the party secretary, wrote a fine column here in the last few days, in which he announced that he had realised the future of rural areas, how driving is necessary, and yes, light cars are also a solution and an important way of making life easier in rural areas. President! Many 15 to 17-year-olds live far away from school and hobbies in areas where public transport is therefore not an option. These mopeds, which we know, are of course popular with every weather racing game. They allow many young people to expand their territory, and of course they also make it easier for parents to transport, for example, but the problem is the safety of mopeds in the event of an accident. The light cars would have been a good solution. It is also a question of freedom of choice and equality, as I mentioned. Thus, there were plans for a safer alternative for young people than these frail mopeds. In fact, the Light Truck Laws were adopted in Finland in a sensible way at the end of the year 18 by a large majority, but the EU Commission considered light-duty cars to be contrary to the EU Driving Licence Directive and the EU does not allow a national deviation in this respect. The EU also woke up very late, only after about nine months after Parliament had adopted the light car laws. That's weird. Well, a year's solution was sought, as the Minister has presented here, by turning all the stones and stumps, as Parliament has also called for in its opinion from the government, but unfortunately no common vision was found. So we are against the wall, and I believe that there is no alternative but to abolish the laws on light cars. However, this must not be forgotten, but we must concentrate our resources on the fact that the new EU driving licence directive, which is currently under preparation, will enable light cars either directly or as part of a national solution. You really have to hope that reason prevails. Problems with the safety of mopeds have not disappeared and the need for light-duty vehicles, that is, a much more sensible alternative, has not disappeared. Even on the basis of the feedback from the consultation of the draft light car laws, there is a clear support for light cars in Finland, even though they are now stuck in EU bureaucracy. President! I consider this light car balling to be a very strange case. This does not show confidence in EU action. I cannot understand that there are irrational decisions here, where security and the use of common sense have no place to say.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u68	Mr President! It is a pity that Parliament is now being asked to abolish the light-duty car legislation. In the last parliamentary term, the legislation on light cars adopted by a large majority in Parliament would have been precisely necessary for young people. In rural areas in particular, and also in rural areas, they would have been an expected and safer alternative to mobility for many families. It is the light cars that increase the safety of drivers between the ages of 15 and 17, and safety is the starting point on which the assembly has also established its own position. The active and passive safety of light-duty cars is better than that of mopeds, and they also have mass restrictions, which increase pedestrian safety. Lightweight cars must also be newer, making cars better equipped with safety devices and also lower emissions. Now you can ride a moped like you used to. Light-duty cars would also have had a speed limit, which would have reduced the risk of an accident and the consequences of a possible accident. For many families, this would also have been a longer-term solution, since a light car can be converted into a normal car when you get a driving licence. It is extremely worrying that today the number of tractors is likely to increase, and we have been given the opportunity to read in the paper about the unfortunate accidents that have occurred to young people and children in the use of these vehicles. If we go back to this process of trying to promote this issue, I am sure that the Minister of Transport has tried to take this issue forward and resolve it. It is amazing that we in the EU will not be able to get this little thing through, but instead we will have the EU recovery package, the hundreds of billions of loans and the direct aid that can be given to other countries. So, yes, it would be a place to make a difference. If there is no place for influence in this matter and there are no results, then one must wonder what the real incentives have been for this recovery package and what the willingness to decide has actually been for the representatives of Finland there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u69	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to emphasise that the criticism was not directed in any way at Minister Haraka or his staff, but was directed purely at the Commission. After all, their conduct has been completely irrational in relation to what should be the treatment of the Member States in accordance with the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u72	Mr President! If there was a very good speech from Mr Laiho on security at the meeting, then the representative On the other hand, Mrs Kyllönen from the left made a very good speech from a very legal point of view and that there should be similar rules in the European Union, with the exception of any exceptions made at that time, on similar issues. It goes to the sense of justice, and it also sits well in the sense of justice. In the case of these light cars, there has been much of a question, not only of the safety aspects that have already been well listed here, but also of accessibility and equality, that is to say that young people in a sparsely populated area or in rural areas have access to hobbies, to summer jobs, to school and to achieve that freedom. Here in the capital region and Helsinki people too often have the impression that there are trams somewhere other than Helsinki and soon Tampere — there will be no trams. Here in Helsinki too often there is a picture that the subway can reach everywhere — well, otherwise you can’t. And because you have your own car available, which would otherwise be safe and not like a moped-like light-duty car or a light-duty spider, this reform would have been necessary. On the other hand, Minister, I hope that you will not promote the kind of reform that Mr Heinonen put forward, that is to say, a reform which will bring about more regulation, which will then have different times, when you are allowed to drive and when you are not allowed to drive. I have to say that sometimes in the countryside or even a little more remote, for example, hobby shifts are so late that you can’t get out of there if you get a car banned at ten o’clock. I hope, Minister, that you will not promote this type of assembly, more regulation-promoting moped, light-duty car legislation. Mr President! There has also been some talk here today about these waivers for permits for 17-year-old drivers. That is where I quickly dug up the statistics, and if you look at the endangerment of road safety, it is true that in the first half of 2019 there were 63 of those statistical entries and 108 in the first half of this year. So there's a difference. But what's behind the statistics? Well, at the beginning of 2019 there were 671 17-year-olds with a B-driver exemption, and at the beginning of this year there were 6500, that is, ten times more, so this difference is relatively small, although each offence is of course equally reprehensible. And as far as driving bans are concerned, in relative terms fewer 17-year-olds have been banned from driving than 18 or 19-year-olds, so we also use the correct facts if we want to argue on the basis of facts and not just mud data.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u73	Madam President! If we go to the end of Mr Könttä, then I think that we should carefully assess this 17-year-old issue, its impact, and make an assessment of its impact. But, as has been said, it has been in force for a short time and it must be assessed what changes and what legislative needs will be in the future. I am a little surprised by the contributions made by the delegation in the previous debate that the assembly, which has always been very strongly flagged on behalf of the EU and which has also highlighted the fact that the market is functioning and guiding, has now come up with proposals, even from a representative from a police background, that perhaps this EU directive should now be violated and acted against what the Chancellor of Justice has said in this country. I am perhaps surprised by the fact that, normally, the majority has defended the middle-income group and even the better-earned ones, and perhaps those who are able to make these changes and drive these cars and, similarly, those who are defending entrepreneurs, but now those threats here in the legislative proposal would then come that, if we were to go against this, there would certainly be liability and also financial damage for the families who have made these changes, and it would also increase the uncertainty of companies. Without commenting on the other debates that have taken place here, it is surprising that the Assembly itself has changed its line so quickly in this matter. But this is exceptional legislation insofar as last season this has been driven by the government and supported by a large majority of the opposition, and so it has now, that is to say, that this government wants light cars for transport and that support from the opposition will also come. But Mrs Kyllönen well described the fact that the biggest bogeyman is there at the end of the EU, and how these common rules are being complied with or ignored. It goes without saying that the car industry and the motor vehicle industry are now driving past the rest of us. In other words, we are going very harshly in who has lobbyed and what and what conditions, and Finland is going to be trampled on there. Unfortunately, it has remained, but I believe that the government and, above all, Minister Harakka will work to bring this forward and to change positions there at a later stage with this directive. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister what might have already been said in the opening speech, namely what the concrete proposals might be, what should now be proposed in this directive for Finland as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u74	Mr President! The previous government must be commended for its unbiased departure from children's safety before promoting the use of light cars by young people aged 15 or over. And as has been heard here, there was the will of a large majority over the last period, and it seems that the same will exists even now. In the preparation, however, no Suomi supplements were taken into it — and I think it was a good thing — on the contrary, the aim was to achieve the most practical implementation possible, and at least it did not come as a surprise to me that there were stumbling blocks at the end of the EU. It is clear that French and Italian moped manufacturers and, of course, their dealers have been there for lobbying and complaints and complaints to the EU. However, business will certainly suffer in the case of these moped companies at that point if such a light-duty vehicle could possibly still spread across Europe. However, in my opinion, the issue of road safety for young people is one that must be a strong priority. There has been a debate here during the debat that these light cars are, however, much heavier in mass than the mopeds, but we must remember that they are also impact tested. These mopeds, those cardboard boxes, they're not gonna be tested anywhere. Then you have to wonder, though, that when you are looking for a less emission-efficient alternative here, what is the reason why the Greens are against it? Even in these light - vehicle tunings, it has become that if it starts to travel, if it starts to travel, like 180 kilometers an hour when it is tuned. But the sealing of the limiter and the adequate sanction will ensure that it is possible to control it. It must be remembered that even mopeds are quite easy to tune up: about 15 minutes of mechanical work and a tuned moped already runs twice as fast as it is allowed. This Swedish model was carried through quite a lot in the Committee on Transport last season. In practice, it's where you have to remove the back seat. As I recall, the directive allows tractors so that there are only two places there. And then it has to be for pulling or pushing, which means that at least the tow hook should be tuned, and the speed limit is 30 kilometers per hour. I'm not exactly warmed up to this either. Is that necessarily a good thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u75	At the end of the first hour of this referral, I will give Mr Haraka two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for this debate, in which one important feature has been our common concern about road safety in general and the safety of young people in particular. As I have already said, the driving licence law is already a little early in the examination of the government and the Ministry of Transport and Communications, just like this regulation on taxis. When there are concerns and faults, we will immediately find out how these problems could be addressed. Now, however, the fact is that we do not yet have the data on how this amendment to the driving licence law has affected us, and until we have the knowledge base to which the government has already committed itself under the Government Programme, we will not make any rash decisions, but of course we will be following, for example, the serious endangerment of road safety by drivers who have started underage with great care. We already have the possibility of restricting ourselves if we consider them to be good, and I am sure that this debate should continue, but, as I said, this security is, in any case, going forward in this debate with good points. Of course, it is interesting to hear how the representative of the previous government very colorfully barks at the law of the previous government, but this sometimes goes this way. I would also like to stress that I agree with these views that the European Commission did not, for the time being, listen to a certain amount of reason. We will continue to influence these age limits, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u77	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u78	We will now resume the debate on item 7 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u79	Mr President! To continue this debate on light cars that started earlier in the day, I must say that this government proposal is sad. Road safety, especially for young people, is an important issue. Lightweight cars are to be welcomed in order to improve road safety and the smooth running of transport for young people. If it is not a question of political will to make this issue of light cars possible, then it is at least a question of the skills and ability of the government to influence the EU. However, it is now the case that the Commission is about to reform the driving licence directive in the near future. It has been said from the Ministry of Transport and Communications that the only way to get young people to use vehicles such as light cars in the future is to influence the content of the future driving licence directive. The Government has reported that it has been active in its efforts to influence the EU in relation to the Light Car Act. What guarantees that the government's active influence on this issue of the Driving Licence Directive will lead to a better result than what we have now seen with regard to this law being repealed? The result was not just achieved in terms of EU influence. If the minister were still here, I would ask how the government intends to ensure that the safety of young drivers is improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u80	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 19/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. After a presentation by the chairman of the committee, the debate will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u81	Mr President! I present the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the Government's proposal for legislation on the temporary amendment of Article 11 of the Act on temporary epidemic compensation and income support. The proposal for temporary compensation for epidemics supports the economically most vulnerable persons and families in society in a situation where the limitation measures resulting from the covid-19 epidemic have entailed extra costs. Persons eligible for basic income support during the period of limitation if they continue to be beneficiaries of basic income support in the autumn of this year. According to the survey, the corona crisis has resulted in increased costs for families with children due, inter alia, to the increase in food costs resulting from the closure of schools. For those living alone in risk groups, additional costs have been caused, for example, by the delivery services of pharmacies and grocery stores. Discontinuation of rehabilitative work activities also interrupted the payment of the associated operating allowance from several recipients of income support. During the interest-rate crisis, the need for income support and food aid has increased significantly. Renting and debt problems have also become more common, and those living on minimum security have no savings to spend on extra expenses. Complementary and preventive income support has partly facilitated the situation and recommendations have been made for the implementation of the aid during exceptional circumstances, in which additional costs have been taken into account. However, the committee considers it justified that the payment of the epidemic allowance should be made without application to all beneficiaries of basic income support and that no separate consideration should be given to the granting of the aid in the municipalities. The committee draws attention to the fact that the proposal has been prepared with a very urgent timetable and has not been consulted during the preparatory work. It has also been suggested in the expert consultation that the proposed epidemic allowance will not be applied effectively and comprehensively to the economies that have suffered financially from the epidemic. The Committee considers it important that, in the future, as the epidemic continues and the economic situation may deteriorate, attention be paid to the targeting and coverage of the various forms of aid. However, the committee considers that the proposed epidemic compensation is necessary and should be allocated to the most economically disadvantaged beneficiaries of basic income support in this situation. The committee supports the adoption of legislative proposals, in particular with changes relating to the tax exemption, the status of Åland and the entry into force of the proposal. These changes are reflected in detail in the committee's report. The committee's report was not unanimous, but one objection has been lodged, and two members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have also signed it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u82	Now I ask those representatives who want to use the reply to the question, to stand up and press the V button from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u83	Mr President! The interest rate increase supports the most deprived Finns in the midst of the corona crisis. There really is a need for support. In the middle of the corona crisis, food queues have increased, debt problems have worsened, and Finland’s level of social security is already too low. Here in the Chamber and in the public debate, there has been criticism of the increase in the interest rate on income support for misdirected. However, the subsidy is intended for the most deprived Finns, and people with low income are entitled to income support if the conditions are met. So the interest rate increase is directed to where it is meant to be, that is, to the most deprived people of all. Mr President! In the past, companies have been supported by very large sums in the middle of the interest rate. The status of workers who have lost their jobs or have been laid off has been facilitated. It is high time that we also supported the poorest Finns in the midst of this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u84	Madam President! It is a real shame that the government has not listened to the experts' statements when making this proposal. Among other things, THL considered: ‘The need for compensation in autumn2020isunjustified. Moreover, the compensation is not effective in relation to the objective of supporting families in which the corona virus epidemic and restrictions have caused additional costs and costs.’ In addition, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities stated: ‘In the autumn of the year, with a positive increase in the epidemic compensation, The Association of Local and Regional Authorities argued that this EUR 60 million would have been allocated directly to municipalities as a universal state contribution in relation to, for example, municipal income support customers or long-term income support customers. Why didn't you do this? Then the support would have gone to those who most need it, and the municipality would have decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u85	Mr President! This temporary epidemic allowance for the recipients of income support is, of course, a good idea, but this bill has not made an impact assessment of who is best targeted. It is not targeted effectively and comprehensively at those economies that have suffered the specific corona epidemic, and it is precisely because of the corona epidemic that this compensation has been planned. This requires that income support should have been provided in the spring and also in the autumn, i.e., in practice, pensioners with low incomes or entrepreneurs whose business has gone downhill and who have endured the spring and summer and now need income support, will not receive this support. The experts have also been critical of this, and in particular the THL has strongly criticised the targeting of this aid and the fact that it: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u86	Mr President! This support is now indeed, as Mr Sarkkinen's speech, for example, pointed out, targeted at the most deprived. It must be understood, however, that income support is a form of support that everyone can apply for at such a low level of income, i.e. no groups — no families, no students or others — will be excluded. A number of other corona subsidies could certainly have been allocated at this stage to the various recipients, but it must also be understood that this aid was now intended specifically for these most vulnerable ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u87	Mr President! Yes, at this point, the government wants to make a policy that is passed on to the poor. Perhaps the greatest measure of the welfare state is how it manages to care for those who suffer distress. That's what this is all about. Of course, the corona epidemic has affected the daily lives of all of us, but it has made the situation particularly difficult for the very most vulnerable, who have had no financial room for manoeuvre. In many respects, restrictive measures have weakened their financial situation and have forced them to incur extra costs. President! This government proposal will ensure that the aid provided by the epidemic compensation is available as soon as possible and is as light as possible administratively. We certainly have enough heavy-duty bureaucracy in this kingdom, and on this point:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u88	Mr President! I believe that there is always a need to support the disadvantaged and the weakest, but unfortunately this is not what this proposal is doing. It is not particularly aimed at low-income families with children, as we have tried to justify this proposal. A very large proportion of the beneficiaries to whom this money goes are single and young and childless. We would have liked the aid to be targeted specifically at those on low incomes who have suffered as a result of this corona epidemic, and it would be the best way to achieve it, as we suggested, that this money should have been given to the municipalities and that it could have been allocated to the recipients of its income support on a discretionary basis. Another way would have been by what THL suggested, i.e. it would have been a good idea to spend money on labour market support and, for example, on raising children, and then especially the unemployed and families with children with low incomes would have benefited from it. Perhaps it is just a lack of preparation that, in this sense, this argument, that is to say, the payment for epidemics.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u89	Madam President! Yes, it must be acknowledged on the right side of the hall that the poor person is a stranger to the people of Peru, because not all entrepreneurs received subsidies from Business Finland or the State Treasury, but I did not hear a whiny word here that ‘you can’t,when everyone doesn’t —at that time you don’t agree with anyone’. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] If we also consider that the money has gone to the municipalities, and we are talking specifically about the discretionary distribution of it, then unfortunately we also have places where the multiplier determines who receives the subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u90	Mr President! I am a little surprised at the debate that this would not now be targeted at families with children or those with a hard time. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] It is clear that there are certainly points in this proposal that need to be looked at more closely and that we should have collected opinions, but there was no time for that. I am sure that in the future we all hope, for example, that child impact assessments will be carried out when proposals are made,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u91	Mr President! I am concerned, however, that this Chamber ignores the experts' statements on this, and, as has been heard here, this is not a question of interest rate. It seems that proposals are being brought into this Chamber to mention the interest rate, which can then be used as a pretext for making various expenditure increases, and that is strange, to say the least. And, as was heard here, a representative said that this is about support for the most vulnerable, but it is not then about this corona, which is nevertheless used as a basis for the draft law. In other words, I think that this is at least extraordinary. And, as is stated here in these statements, this does not now apply to those who have suffered the most from this interest rate, and it has become a cost. Therefore, the objection raised by the People's Party and supported by the National Coalition Party is quite valid and should not be ignored.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u92	Madam President! In the referral debate, I have already thanked this motion for the temporary payment of the epidemic and for the fact that at last we are also taking account of the most disadvantaged. For the most vulnerable in Finland, we refer specifically to those who receive basic income support. This group includes a large number of people who lost many of their services with the interest rate and thus experienced various disadvantages that are not measured in money. This will at least bring a little comfort to these people. EUR 75 is neither compensation nor any of the things that this has caused many people. It has been suggested that supplementary income support should be paid. It increases the functions of the municipality, and many times there are also criticisms that the functions of the municipality are being increased. It is quite the case that if we talk about supplementary income, then we will step on the mine, that sometimes those decisions are made on the basis, which is not really the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u93	Mr President! There have been criticisms here that this epidemic aid does not target all the most vulnerable people or that there would be problems in targeting it, and I am sure that that criticism also has its backsliding. In my opinion, it is clear that this is probably not completely targeted, but I think that this is a situation quite similar to that of business Finland, for example. Even that wasn't 100% accurate. But what we are sure of, however, is that this applies to the people and families who were last spring and are still customers of basic income this autumn. And when it is said that this does not come from low incomes, at least I do not know anything about high incomes, which is a customer of basic income support. I have no idea of any good income that was a basic income customer last spring and is still a basic income customer at the same time this autumn. So it is certain that at least this will be paid to those on low incomes. The amount is not huge, it is EUR 75 per month. And it is also certain that when this is paid to beneficiaries of basic income support,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u94	Mr President! The draft law is based on a good idea to support the economically most vulnerable people and families to whom the corona crisis has caused additional costs. However, the committee's discussion has shown that the proposed epidemic allowance is not targeted effectively and comprehensively on the economies that have suffered financially from the corona epidemic. It would have been essential to redefine the aid to those in need. There must be no reason to ignore the experts, to ignore the facts. According to expert advice, for example, many low income families with children who have been hit by the corona crisis are now excluded. It would have been very important to find ways of targeting this precisely to those on low incomes who have now been hit hard by the interest rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u95	Madam President! Families with children have experienced real distress because of the corona, but so have many who live alone in the home. That is why this aid is really needed for the most deprived. 75 euros a month is a lot of money when food expenditure increases, because children do not eat at school, or when you have to pay for transporting medicines home or you need a better connection to study so that you can study at home. That is why I would ask: Why would a single person be worse than a family with children? I would like to remind you that we have a huge number of lonely people, men and women, whose lives are becoming very difficult during the corona. That's why this model is good. It takes into account all those who need help. Singles can also be in their 30s, and they too need to be heard. I find it strange that people can be classified in different compartments.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u96	Madam President! Thank you for your excellent contributions to Mr Malmi and Mr Salmon above. Yes, I can see that we are talking here about exceptional circumstances which, in addition to families with children, have particularly affected people living alone, who also have a lot of people who are in need of help in their everyday lives or who have been in need during the time of the corona. People living alone have needed help, for example, by transporting pharmacies and grocery stores home. A lot of things have come up that they have not been able to do in their everyday lives, and these have brought them additional costs. There are many single - parent families where children have had to eat at home instead of at school, which has also increased the cost of eating at home. So, yes, this aid is targeted specifically at the less fortunate. It is quite clear that other groups of people need to be taken into account in the future, so that we can support them better, but it has now been done to target those most in need.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u97	Mr President! At this first reading I was already delighted that the assembly seemed to have a heart for this presentation, but the disappointment is great now that it has come to the Finnish people’s line on this matter. It seems that it is simply the view now that we are helping the wrong kind of poor people. We know that the corona crisis has hit the people with the lowest incomes and those in the most fragile position in this society the most. It also seems strange that the group, which often drives the norm and drives the red tape to be severely reduced, is now behind a proposal that would specifically increase that bureaucracy. After all, the income support system has moved to Kela. From those municipalities, those posts of benefit handlers have been closed down. There is simply not enough staff there at the moment to deal with the question that is now being raised in this protest. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u98	Mr President! Mr Honkasalo has just made the right point, namely that social security should aim for a simple system and reduce the red tape, and I understand that this is exactly what the THL's point in its opinion was missing when it proposed that instead of the government's proposal, it should be considered whether this money should be allocated to labour market support. It is the logic that, logically and in accordance with all the fine doctrines, we should develop primary social security, and this income support is the last, complementary support system, and I believe that if we had not been so busy, then perhaps a slightly deliberate solution of this kind would have been found. [PresidentAnuVehvillainen : Representative... ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u101	Madam President! True, the Finns of Peru also base their views very much on expert opinions. In our opinion, for example, THL's statement was simply to stop the blood. They have stated that the arguments put forward by the government are misleading. So really, these are our ideas based on those expert opinions, and it is good — we learn from this at least — that it is not worth saying in advance, being for or against before consulting experts. The Finnish Federation of Child Welfare was very concerned that a large number of low-income families with children are excluded from the target group of the proposal. So this is not a complete one, and I must admit it. Yes, you, the good government, must admit that these expert statements cannot wipe the table. Yes, these should have been listened to much more closely, and that is why the protest made by our Basic Finns was that it would be targeted there for discretionary income support, and it is good that the Coalition Party came to the line of the Basic Finns. Our line is purely based on expert opinions. We appreciate THL's statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u102	I would now like to ask those Members who still wish to speak in this debate to press the response button from their place. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u103	Mr President! Income support is defined as support for the poorest Finns, those whose income is otherwise insufficient to cope with the necessary expenditure. If these Finns are not helped, they will have no bread and medicines to buy and no rent. These Finns have not been able to lose the most in euro, as they had the least of all done. That does not mean that they do not need and demand help, but vice versa. The loss of EUR 10 is quite different when it is lost by the average person than when it is lost by a person who would have bought the last food of the month with that money. Therefore, this increase in income support was an absolutely necessary step in this situation. This does not mean that there should not have been more, but it should have been done in addition to this, not instead. It is therefore quite incomprehensible that, on the right side of the Chamber, the poorest Finns are set against each other, as if the other euro were off the other.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u104	Madam President! Surely no one in this Chamber has claimed that this would be a perfect hand-out for all those with the least income support. This is certainly a compromise, as many times have to be done in these hand stretches, but already the fact that these people are ready for income support, tells us that they are selected for this kind of help. Yes I think at least this way that even though there is this kind of ex post compensation, it is better than nothing at all for families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u105	Mr President! This proposal for an epidemic compensation is precisely about the loss of interest to these beneficiaries. I would also like to emphasise that income support has to be provided here both in the spring and in the autumn. When we talk about speed, this ability to react is not very fast — now, retrospectively, Christmas gift money is given. This group, which receives basic income support, is of course disadvantaged. It is not a question of questioning it, but it is a question of giving this under the guise of the interest rate and targeting the low-income ones. There are a lot of low-income pensioners — low-income pensioners, low-income families — who are excluded from this proposal, so do not say that this is the lowest-income group. And I would also like to point out that we have had critical expert opinions on this point. Finnish Federation of Child Welfare
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u106	Mr President! Now we really have to ask whether we all understand this in the Chamber right now. In Finland, those receiving income support are the most vulnerable, the worst-case scenario, and this epidemic allowance is coming to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u109	Mr President! First of all, it must be said at this point that I have lived in a family that has received basic income support, and this money would have gone into alcohol, every cent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u110	Mr President! I find it very offensive to label everyone who receives basic income support as alcoholics.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u113	Mr President! Of course, it is quite clear that not all those on low incomes will receive this epidemic allowance and not all who have suffered from this corona epidemic will be covered by this aid. However, I do not think that this is a reason for those who have been recipients of basic income support in the spring and are now not to be paid because not everyone else is getting what is bad. I also think that the best is the worst enemy of good. If we are looking for a perfect system where everything is going to go right, that system will never come and these low-income people will be left completely without support. This motion, which is in the protest, is based on the fact that this should now be rejected, so that we should not now have a new proposal which would somehow be much better in this regard. Here has also been criticised for the fact that the government has in haste done this sort of thing, but then the protest says that the basic Finns suggest that the government must prepare a new proposal in haste. It won't get any better if we both do it in a hurry. I think we should accept that the accuracy of the match is not 100%.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u114	Mr President! A good debate has taken place, a lot of the same things have arisen, as has been said recently on this issue. It is true that this does not go to all those on low incomes, but it really does go to those on low incomes, and my understanding is that this is precisely the purpose. Mr Koulumies indeed pointed out that this was allocated to labour market support, but the fact is that a large number of groups would have been excluded from it, such as students/motherhood leave, for example, if they were very low incomes. Mr Salmon, chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, has on many occasions raised a good point, which is true: This support is not perfect either. No support that has now been given in relation to the interest rate is complete and bomb-proof, but from my point of view and my point of view, this very much responds to the needs that this bill has been designed to take forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u115	In this debate, I will give you two more answers, and then we will go to the list of speakers. Next up, Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u116	Thank you, Madam Speaker! People have been worried about families with children in this room. It is good to remember that families with children were helped, among other things, by the reorganization of school meals and by organizations. A lot of loners didn't get that help. Food aid and many support measures under the Social Welfare Act were put on ice at the most severe stage of the corona. That is why this support is necessary. Even if it comes after you, it'll still help. It has been mentioned many times that income support is a last resort aid, but this aid is targeted at the poorest. It will therefore help all those who have received basic income support in the spring and who are likely to be beneficiaries of it this autumn. Busy is a relative concept. It seems that the emergency state of spring is very much forgotten — then things will be done in order of priority. I would like to see realism and honesty from the opposition as to where we were in the spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u117	Madam President! Unfortunately, the poverty of families with children and the low level of social security are a reality in our well-being Finland, and the epidemic allowance will give the most vulnerable people even a little relief in this situation for longer. I would like to remind you that supplementary income support can be provided, even today, on a discretionary basis, if there are families and entrepreneurs or operators who have a difficult financial situation at the moment and did not have it in spring or if these criteria are not met with regard to income support. In other words, the fact that we are helping the most vulnerable, in my view, cannot really be a bad solution for the government, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u118	We are now going to the list of speakers, and the next item is Mr Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u119	Mr President! The temporary epidemic increase in income support, i.e. the corona increase, is the support for improving the position of the most disadvantaged Finns, which has also been strongly promoted by the left. A person or family who has received basic income support from 1 March to 31 July would be entitled to interest-bearing increase. between and within at least one month, and it would be paid in the autumn to households who are still eligible for basic income support. This is an increase of EUR 75 per member of the family. The maximum per person increase may be 300 euros per person during this autumn. The increase would not have to be applied for separately, but Kela automatically grants the aid. It is estimated that around 200,000 deprived persons would be eligible. The interest-rate crisis has made life and livelihood more difficult for the most low incomes, and other interest-rate subsidies so far have not been applied to households receiving income support. Companies have been supported in the corona crisis and the situation of those who have lost their jobs and are laid off has also been facilitated. The most vulnerable also need additional support over difficult times. That makes sense, and that is fair. Deprived people spend every euro for domestic consumption, so this support increases demand unabated and also stimulates Finland’s economy and businesses. Mr President! Here in the Chamber and in the public debate there has been criticism of an increase in the interest rate for misdirecting it. However, the subsidy is intended for the most deprived Finns and people with low income are entitled to income support if the conditions are met. So the interest rate increase is directed to where it is intended, i.e. to the most deprived of all. Mr President! Finland has received many comments on the insufficient level of basic security, and during the course of the corona the bread queues have been stretched to record lengths, so I am very surprised if someone claims that these people do not need this support. Mr President! However, some people in financial distress are excluded from this support, for example because they have not applied for or, for some reason, received income support during the reference periods. However, there is no complete and fully targeted support mechanism, especially if it is to be mobilised without delay and without additional bureaucracy. The support mechanism now chosen is good for being administratively light and does not require a separate application from people. Mr President! According to surveys, Korona has particularly hit the well-being of low income families with children. After a difficult year, these families deserve the support of society. Epidemic compensation is used to address the poverty of families with children. About a quarter of the people receiving income support are children. Support is granted according to the family’s main number, so many poor families of children receive significant relief from interest subsidy in their economy. Mr President! However, support is allocated to families other than families with children. The great crowd are people who live alone, including many men. On this basis, the Finns have criticized support. — I must ask you, what do you have against men living alone?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u126	Mr President! Perhaps there has been an emotional debate like this sometimes in this Chamber, and perhaps even a little confusing at times, perhaps even a little unnecessary – no – debate that brings us, as it were, such a strong and strong confrontation, which I think is unnecessary at this point. I am sure we all agree that this wretched corona epidemic has caused dents to a very large extent in Finnish society, and I believe that we also agree that one group that has been hit is the people who are already struggling with their livelihoods. I believe that this is the starting point that we all have in common. In some ways we have come to such a strange debate, which, as it were, begins to value some sort of poverty list for certain people, which is not the purpose of this proposal either. The purpose of this presentation is to help a person: to help a person in distress; to help a person who struggles with everyday life. This point is now proposed as a solution to this epidemic compensation of EUR 75 per month. It will help, but of course it will not be a longer-term solution. Of course, the world is full of different means, and I believe that there will also be a wider debate under this government, such as social security reform and so on, on what can be done, for example, in the face of such problems of livelihood and poverty in general. I like that this compensation comes from Kela as if automatically. It would therefore be tax-free and, of course, it would not affect the level or level of aid. This is such agile, straightforward, bureaucratic-free action. We in this Chamber during this parliamentary term and even during previous parliamentary periods have called for this sort of bureaucratic action, the dismantling of bureaucracy and so on, and it is precisely this that is very easy, straightforward, fast way of helping the poverty that unfortunately exists in this society that is too little attention at this point. Sometimes I am surprised that something is being done about this, as if the money were going to the wrong people or the wrong groups. This goes exactly to those people who need that 75.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u127	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Perhaps today the news came from that left side when Mrs Kyllönen said that income support was distributed on the basis of a face-to-face coefficient. I wonder what the social workers who make decisions will think. Is it really the case that income support is distributed in Finland on the basis of a face-to-face coefficient? I would urge you, my dear government, to report on this matter. See if that's true. If so, this is a disastrous situation. Mr Sarkkinen, on the other hand, mentioned that our protest was based on immigration. In our protest there is no word, no single word, about immigration. It is based purely on expert advice. Obviously you have not read our objection when you dare to claim this. Our objection is based on expert opinions. ‘The Finns consider that society supports those who are unemployed or laid off, whose income is reduced as a result of the virus epidemic, “The Government’s proposal under discussionhas been prepared in a very urgent time In the expert consultation, among other things, THL has pointed out that the proposed epidemic allowance is not effectively and comprehensively targeted at those economies which have suffered from the epidemic in the form of a significant deterioration in economic disposable income or for which the epidemic has resulted in significant additional costs. In addition, THL has pointed out that the arguments put forward by the Government contain misleading information on the need for support, since supplementary and preventive income support can respond to the situations used to justify the epidemic compensation.’ ‘Preparatory support shall also be limited to basic incomeaid beneficiaries, which shall In expert hearings, the Finnish Federation of Child Welfare pointed out that families with children with low income incomes, such as families where parents are studying or where the main source of income is, for example, parental allowance or home care allowance — or families receiving income support in the spring but who are not entitled to compensation in accordance with the proposal.’ “Constraint measures may have caused difficulties in payment Expert consultation The Guarantee Foundation highlighted as an example persons in a private debt arrangement who are not, as a rule, entitled to income support during the debt arrangement. However, their income may have been reduced and delayed due to layoffs and contributions to unemployment benefits, which may have led to the risk that compliance with the payment scheme may have been jeopardised or interrupted.’ “In an expert hearing,the University of Eastern Finland stated that only 20percent Thus, the additional support proposed does not mainly target families with children whose food expenditure has risen as a result of leaving home schooling, but households with one person. Therefore, the aid does not have a significant impact on the prevention of poverty in families with children, but a significant part of the aid will end up for persons whose expenditure has not increased as a result of the corona epidemic.’ [Iiris Suomela’s interlude] ‘The Finns believe that the additional aid is targeted at households which have been beneficiaries of basic income support as the beginning of an This result would be achieved either by dividing the aid into earmarked money for the municipalities, which would be used for supplementary income support specifically to compensate for the costs of the corona epidemic, or alternatively by allocating the amount of aid to the recipients of labour market support and its child-rearing aid in the form of an epidemic compensation.’ And that is why we have proposed that the bill be rejected and that the government should prepare a new proposal in a timely manner, in which the amount of aid earmarked for interest-bearing loans will be distributed to the municipalities for additional income support, so that the aid will be allocated to those most in need.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u128	Mr President! The aim of the Act is to support the economically most vulnerable people and families in society in a situation where the limitation measures resulting from the covid-19 epidemic have resulted in extra costs. This support would cover persons who have received basic income support during the limitation period if they are still beneficiaries of basic income support during the payment period of the grant in autumn 2020. The aid would amount to EUR 75 per person per month, with a total cost to the State of approximately EUR 60 million. I would like to draw attention to a number of points raised in the expert consultation. There was a debate here about the fact that there was no criticism at the time when this came into the referral debate. Yes, there were criticisms then, but it was of course only after the expert consultations that it was possible to assess what this whole package of laws is and what its effects are and what the views of the experts are and, of course, we must consult the experts, because they are experts in it, we are political decision-makers. For example, THL says that the government’s payment for epidemics helps poorly those whose livelihoods have been most affected by the interest rate. The beneficiaries of income support are the poorest among the beneficiaries of the various benefits, but have the recipients of income support been most affected by the epidemic and why are the existing means of social security not used? According to THL, supplementary and preventive income support could respond to situations such as those at hand. THL points out that the epidemic compensation is being paid in time to a situation where the worst stage of the first wave of the epidemic in Finland is over and the extra costs, such as school meals at home and food delivery, are no longer very topical. There is a lack of justification for ex post compensation in the Government's proposal. The THL also points out that aid is poorly targeted at households that have lost their jobs or business activities due to an epidemic: ‘Epidemia of compensation represents a framework of well-prepared social security legislation in which the main objectives and methods are not in place in the middle and where the legislation is genuinely motivated to spread between the rows. “ Hard text from them. The Finnish Federation of Child Welfare is concerned that a large number of low-income families, such as families where parents are studying or where the main source of income is, for example, parental allowance or home care allowance, or families who have received income support in the spring but who are not entitled to compensation in accordance with the proposal. The Central Federation of Child Welfare is concerned that support will also benefit those who benefit from it late. The Finnish Federation of Child Welfare points out that the proposal recognises the narrowness of impact assessment and consultation. In fact, it is quite brutal for the Green Left to make a policy under the guise of the corona and the poorest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u129	Mr President! Many people's daily lives and lives fell from the bottom with a corona, and of course every Finn who suffered as a result of the corona should be helped. At the same time, it must be recognised that those who already had the least of them ended up in the worst situation. Many essential services, such as food aid and Kela offices, closed their doors. For example, the services of the homeless had to be restricted for security reasons. It is precisely these people who are intended to be supported by income support, those Finns whose income is otherwise insufficient to live on, that is, the basic necessities of life: food, medicine and rent. These people have not been able to lose most in euro as a result of the interest rate, because they already had the least. That is why talking about who has lost the most bypasses the situation of these poorest Finns. It is also untenable, of course, to go out and set people against each other in this way, knowing that helping the poorest Finns should not be for anyone, but for the contrary. Now that it is ensured that no one will hopefully miss food, medicines and rent due to money problems, then the basic security of society and the functioning of the welfare state for all of us will be taken care of. Families with children have also been tough in the middle of the corona, but once again those families with children who are already in the most difficult situation, the poorest of all families with children. More than 100,000 children are covered by income support in Finland. It accounts for over 10 per cent of all children in Finland, i.e. a huge number of children. According to many studies, these are the most vulnerable children of all. At the same time, we must not forget that, unfortunately, many older people also have to rely on income support. It is they who have been hit hardest by the corona when the invitation has been to stay out of the world, in fact, for their own safety. The THL has explained that it is the most vulnerable Finns who have suffered the most from the corona, and that is why I really hope that we do not need to do this again now and that the right-wing opposition could allow this urgent and necessary proposal to go through. That is what was said in the Chamber. At the same time, more impact assessments, more studies, more reflection are required and, on the other hand, it is suggested that even now support is coming too late. If the aid is now coming too late, why is the right-wing opposition taking it down? This is completely contradictory and shows that it is not really a matter of the weakest, but of something else. According to THL, economic problems in municipalities are reflected, according to social workers, among other things, as an increase in the need for food aid and debt problems. On the other hand, it has not been possible to respond to these problems during the interest rate when social welfare offices and food aid have had to limit their opening hours. We are therefore aware of a huge increase in the disadvantage which has not been properly addressed by the interest rate. This is the first medicine: we are now trying to ensure that people in the autumn do not run out of money when we have to be able to pay for food, medicines and rent. This, however, is by no means the only thing that remains to be done. It is therefore totally unacceptable to assume that this should now be withdrawn and not done in order to take further steps to help Finns. That is not the case. Now let's do this, let's give this rapid emergency aid, and in addition to supporting low-income Finns in a number of other ways. In the spring, the government has already made a comprehensive package of corona support, which has targeted assistance to children and young people as well as older people, as well as to many other vulnerable groups, and of course this should continue. But I repeat: this is not the opposite of filling the livelihoods of the poorest Finns, but the government is doing both of these actions. That is why the opposition's way of putting these two things against each other is false and does not tell us how the weaker in reality in the middle of the corona can be helped. Both can be done: can be invested in services, can be filled with the deepest problems of living. It is largely a matter of value choice, because the value of society is ultimately measured in how it takes care of the weakest, and that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u132	Mr President! I tend to avoid talking about ‘we’and ‘they’,dispersing people,but now that we’re talking about this epidemic compensation,which is intended to ensure an inevitable income,it must be pointed out that when we listen to this debate,it’s good to remember that we’re well-earned:we’rethem who have not It's kind of important to remember. In this Chamber, in particular, we do not have the right to claim today that, when we give this temporary necessary compensation to those who have the weakest economic situation in this society, that increase would go to alcohol. That is the argument we heard today about the ranks of the True Finns — quite incomprehensible. I would like to mention that alcoholism is not a disease that only occurs in the population at a certain level of income, and alcoholism is not a reason to exclude anyone from the subsidies. However, to return to this government proposal, it is good to understand that those who already have the least of them cannot afford even the smallest additional costs, the minimum income of those living on minimum security, when there is so low that there is no flexibility in the economy. It is therefore only fair and right that the additional costs of the epidemic for the most vulnerable should now be compensated, even in part, albeit retrospectively. It is a choice of values: it is an indication that we are taking care of those who are the most vulnerable economically. And we in this Chamber are not entitled to put them in order. To that end, we have those professionals who judge who is entitled to the income support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u135	Madam President! Yes, the aim of this proposal is to support the economically most vulnerable people and families in a situation where the corona virus epidemic and the exceptional and restrictive measures that have been imposed, as well as the various recommendations, have resulted in extra costs and costs. It would be great if this core stayed in the middle of it. This is a fixed-term benefit which will also safeguard the lives of the most vulnerable if and when, hopefully, the levels of infection are rising in the autumn. The situation in families with children last spring has been reflected, among other things, in rising food costs due to the closure of schools and the restrictions of the day care centre. It could have been a very big and significant economic change for the family. There are many single-parent families in our country that are covered by income support, mothers and fathers, children, siblings who need help, and with this compensation they are now receiving it. The recipients of income support, as has been said, also have a large number of persons living alone. Not everyone living alone has a support network to ask for help in the midst of the corona crisis, and therefore coping with everyday life may have brought unexpected and unpredictable but inevitable additional costs to the economy. I would like to remind you once again that the income level of people dependent on income support is already so low that it is unable to adjust to the extra costs, and that is what this proposal is now responding to. We want to support the weakest and thus prevent the emergence of problems. Unlike the Finns of Peru, we do not divide what kind of person receives income support and we do not assume in advance that the recipient of income support would spend the money he has received on substance abuse or other inappropriate activities. It is true that this benefit could have come earlier, but that does not mean that the aid cannot come now, because compensation can also make it easier for people to incur additional costs during the spring closures, and that can be done now. I also think it is quite clear, as the opposition has also pointed out here, that, in the event of an epidemic, we should also look at other aid seekers and pay more attention to the fact that the various forms of support are more comprehensive, but indeed in addition to this proposal, not to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u136	Irade fru talman! Epidemiersättningen är ett viktigt och elkommet stöd för de personer och familer som har det economskt sällt i samhället på grund av de ökade kostnader som pandemin harsakat. För tre veckor sedan frågade jag rai i plenum hur det är tänkt att lagen ska tillampas på Åland effectsom ansvarsfördelningen mellan riket och Åland kan vara complicerad i den arv nitrogens frågor. Landskapsregeringens synpunkter hade inte Heller Hunnit tas i beaktande tidigare effectsom propositionen beretts en mycket brådskande tidtabell och lagförslaget redan var avgett till riksdage då synpunkterna togs emot. Därför är det glädjande att saken nu har klargjorts och fått en lösning. Det har variant en bra och konstruktiv dialogue mellan social- och älsovårdsministeriet och landskapsregeringen på Åland för att snabbt hitta en praktisk lösning. I social- och halsovårdsutskottets betankande, som godkändes i fredags, finns nu de ändringar i lagförslaget som krävs för att aven Åland ska inkluderas i detta viktiga lagförslag. Det finns goda skäl varför denna temporära ändring skulle gälla också på Åland. Stödet hemäger nämligen samman med det undantagstillstånd och de restrictioner som infördes av statsmakten också på Åland och som stod ovanför självstyrelsens behörigheter också på de områden där Åland normalt har egen lagstiftningsbehörighet. Då man på Åland inte kunnat påverka de statliga begränsningarna finns det skäl att stöden som komenserar för effekten av dessa begränsningar också gäller på Åland. Irade fru talman! Enligt social- och helsovårdsutskottets betankande har coronakrisen medfört ökade kostnader för Barnfamiler bland you give på grund av att matutgifterna ökat till följd av att skolorna stängts. Ensamboende som hör till riskgrupperna har också orsakats extrakostnader för till exempel hemkörning av varvar från apotek och matbutiker. Det har aven blivit vanligare med hyresskulder och skuldproblem, och de som är hehvisade till miniskyddet har inga besparingar att använda för extrakostnader. Den au epidemiersättningen, som är ett skattefritt stöd om 75 euro per månad som betalas ur statens medel, gör därför att situationen kan underlättas något. Stödet rikatas till de personer som har rätt till grundläggande utkomstöd tidigare i år samt under hösten. För att förenkla processen beviljas stödet av Folkpensiosanstalten för en månad åt gången utgående från de uppgifter som Folkpensiosanstalten har om det grundläggande utkomstödet. Därför behöver den som har sött till stödet inte göra någon särskild ansökan, vilket är mycket bra. Jag vill avslutningsvis tacka den ansvariga ministern Aino-Kaisa Pekonen för snabbt agerande i den är frågan effecter att vi diskuterat saken för tre veckor sedan samt också tacka social- och älsovårdsministeries och landskapsregeringens tjänstmän som snabbt hitt en fungerande lösning. På samma sätt vill jag tacka hela social- och älsovårdsutskottet som snabbt hade en beredskap att göra de nödvändiga ändringarna i lagförslaget som behövdes för att tödet också skulle kunna gälla på Åland, för det behövs verkligen för många manniskor också på Åland. Det är darför också ett mycket beskrivande fall över hur viktig ricksdagsbehandlingen alltid är för att granska lagförslagen och vid behov snabbt kunna göra ändringar i dem som behövs då ny information framkommit. Stort tag till minister Pekonen och regeringen för att man snabbt löste detta, och utskottet så klart. — Tack.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u137	Mr President! First of all, I would like to point out that when the autumn period was now opened in this Parliament, I hoped that the government would bring forward proposals relating to people's employment and work, and yet the first thing that was brought here was this improvement in social security. The best social security is that these people are not recipients of income support, but at work. In this way, long-term poverty will improve in so far as there are people capable of working in these recipients. What I would like to point out here is that, when a lot of speeches have been made about the fact that we have too low levels of income support and that we want to direct support to the poorest, then one might assume that the government would bring to Parliament a proposal that specifically increases income support, not so that it is brought in by the name of the corona and the people most affected by the interest rate, because if that is the case, it is permanently too low, then it should be raised. That is quite clear and we all know in this Chamber that income support is very low and that these people are the poorest in this country, but it is not in sync with this bill, which specifically wanted to correct the aid most affected by the interest rate and the things that caused the most costs. And, of course, the question arises as to whether the government has taken this issue into account since next year — this temporary allowance is now valid for four months. When the Committee on Social Affairs and Health really has heard experts from many quarters here, it is quite clear that unfortunately this comes late and that this does not go to where the highest costs have been. In my opinion, there is a clear contradiction between what is being proposed here. As far as the objection made by the Finns of Peru is concerned that this should be added to the supplementary and preventive income support of municipalities, it is not exactly a new thing. It is still in existence and in force, so there is no need to create anything new. It is simply a question of transferring that money to the municipalities for distribution when it should be shown that the costs have been incurred. It is also a fact that we do not think it is worthwhile at this point to share that money with the whole group, but to allocate it to where the interest rate has become the most expensive, as has been said in several of these expert reports. The same has been said between THL and the Federation of Child Welfare. The Guarantee Foundation, like the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities, is now critical of this proposal. In my opinion, it is necessary to have legislation in this house that really tackles what the government's proposal wants to tackle. And I cannot fail to say — once again, when it was raised here that the Finns of Peru also criticize the benefits for immigrants — that it is good to note that the fact is that in the capital region 51 per cent of the income support goes to people with an immigrant background, and when you look at the whole country, 40,000 people who are not even Finnish citizens go to our income support, which is not worth turning a blind eye to these facts. This is a rather unpretentious language about the situation in the capital region at the moment, so I would like to see those work-promoting proposals here rather than such temporary increases in social security. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u138	Madam President! There has been a good debate here today, and we are all saying that there is a lot of poverty in Finland. The objective of Agenda 2030 is the eradication of poverty in the world, and Finland has made efforts to do so, including by raising the guarantee pension, but not enough. We all know that we have a lot of elderly people, pensioners, students, lonely people who do not want to make it. It's a fact. The text of our objection, which we have prepared and written on it — is, of course, unfortunate when the word “false ” is used here in the debate — based on what we have heard and how we have acted onthe basis of our consultation,and the facts become apparent,as well as on the allowances that are paid to immigrants by Mr.Rantanen —to find out why they cannot be spoken? — but our objections are not based on them. We do not have immigration at the heart of the protest, but at the heart of the experts' statements that this support does not necessarily apply to those to whom support should and should be given. So that is what our ideas are based on. One reason for this is that food costs in families with children and families have increased. I then left a written question to the government to answer as to how these food packages have been given to schoolchildren by schools and municipalities in Finland and how unequal families and children have been in Finland. Hopefully, when I get that answer, you will then be able to get a little bit more of that backboard on these issues, is it really the case that the food package was only distributed in the capital region? In Espoo, for example, it was distributed, and many students were able to get it, including high school students, and it was great that the abiturients who wrote just in the spring received this support in the form of its food. I'm sure this conversation will continue. It must be based on facts and facts, and that is what we have tried to present. We do not deny poverty or the fact that we have a lot of people trapped in poverty. Many pensioners have helped their children, grandchildren, and bargained over their own little pension so that they could cross the corona crisis and help one another. Of us here, too, there are many stories that are very rife. Representatives say that not everyone has always been well. We are ordinary people, we may not always have been well-off: there is single parenthood, there is a background for us people. Those stories are sometimes heartbreaking here because then we know what we are talking about when we ourselves have experienced single parenthood and other problems and thoughts about what comes next in this life. That's how we survive and get on with our lives. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u139	Mr President! In my opinion, Mr Kiviranta very well pointed out in his speech that this may have become a little too much of a confrontational debate. But just a few more things to say about these points raised by previous representatives — perhaps this is a repetition, a repetition, these same points have been raised — I was thinking of raising them. So I am sure we all agree in this Chamber that we must strive to move from income support to work, people get jobs. We're working on this. The Government is working, and these proposals are now coming to Parliament for discussion in the autumn. But it is perhaps not the place for this paragraph to be discussed when it comes to supporting the most vulnerable in this situation, when the interest rate has dealt with them in a physical way, so that this additional money will certainly be needed. And yes, this need for an increase is linked to the corona, although it has been criticised here. However, it has often been pointed out here that in everyday life the cost has risen and, in certain situations, the income support has also decreased in families for various reasons due to the interest rate. That is why I think that this small increase is absolutely justified. Well, the issue of targeting has been discussed here and we can certainly say that we now have a few different approaches as to whether this is targeted correctly or whether it is not targeted correctly. I think this is really well targeted at the most vulnerable, it is the right address for this income support. The majority of experts also supported this proposal. It is known that there were a few experts who were critical of this issue, but, as in many other areas, it is important that the experts are listened to very widely in committee. After all, as has been said many times in this Chamber, it is a parliament and we Members of Parliament who have to make a decision, especially in the case of experts coming from a few different sides of the agenda on these matters. And lastly, this schedule, when it was brought up that this was just here in Parliament,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u140	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 14/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-22-ps-116.u141	Madam President! As President of the Tax Section, I will briefly present this short report, which is a version of last spring, as it were. This is therefore a temporary exemption from VAT for some of the instruments needed to combat the interest rate when it comes to domestic and intra-EU purchases. The background to this is that, earlier in spring, in April, the Commission stated that such an equivalent temporary duty-free rate for these goods would apply specifically to purchases from outside the EU, and this is to make it as if it were also to make domestic and intra-EU purchases fair. That's what this is all about. We discussed this issue, Mr President, in fact, in the spring. We have discussed this then, we have produced a report. It was also a matter of temporary law. It was set to enter into force with the expiry date at the end of July. And now the Commission has continued with this own decision, which is followed by Parliament and its timetable, and in this case it would be a further three months. Of course, the question raised in the section was that, now that this is now in force until the end of October, it would be more appropriate to do it a little further at the same time, because unfortunately there might be a need for legislation of this kind after the end of October. But it became clear at the time when we asked that this was hand-in-hand with this Commission proposal, and that is why we are doing this temporary extension once again, but at the same time we are saying in this report that it is precisely because, if necessary, we also want to follow up this law, including from the point of view of the committee. I do not, of course, hope that we will have this item here once again. The content of the debate itself was the same, and the content of our report is the same as it was then in the spring. And the issue that may have been discussed, because it also involves opposition from the Assembly and the Christian Democrats, relates to the Commission's interpretation of the case in which this law applies. At the time, we verified this from the Tax Department of the Ministry of Finance, which still had an exchange of letters with the Commission on the interpretation, which resulted in this limitation being confirmed. [The President knocks ]
