ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 26/2020 vp. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 11 December 2020. In the debate, Johanna Ojala-Niemelä, supported by Mikko Kinnuse, has proposed that Parliament decide not to prosecute Mr Pekka Haavisto. In the debate, Mr Tynkkynen, supported by Mari Rantanen, has tabled a motion of censure against Mr Haavisto, Foreign Minister. The proposal has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u2	The motion of censure must be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u3	Let us move on to the narrow voting procedure. The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 16/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 December 2020. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u4	Mr President! I'm going to make a motion of protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u5	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u6	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate ended at the plenary session on 14 December 2020 The debate, supported by Sofia Vikman Ari Koponen, has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected. In addition, Ari Koponen, supported by Juha Mäenpää, has tabled a motion for a statement in accordance with protest 1, and Sofia Vikman, supported by Paula Risiko, has made 12 proposals in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u7	The motion for rejection shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u8	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u9	At this point I hope and point out that it might not be a good idea for the balcony to have a laptop on the very edge for safety reasons. I hope that laptop can be taken from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u10	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 December 2020. In the debate, Paula Risikko Anna-Kaisa Ikonen, supported by Mrs Ikonen, has tabled a motion for a statement in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u11	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u12	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 December 2020. In the debate, Markku Eestilä, supported by Paula Risiko, has tabled an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u13	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u14	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 36/2020 vp. The State budget procedure for 2021 was adopted at the plenary session on 12 December 2020 and the report was put on the table for today's plenary session. We shall now proceed to the general debate. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the debate will continue with group speeches of a maximum of 5 minutes. The Minister for Finance will then take the floor for a maximum of 7 minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. Section-specific general discussions shall take place on the basis of a separate timetable distributed to the representatives. The presidents of the sections of the Committee on Finance will present the report to the section concerned, after which ministers will be given the floor before the debate. For the general discussion. — Presentation, by Mr Koskinen, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u15	Mr President! There is a draft budget in the House today, which has been drawn up and which will also be implemented next year, largely in crisis situations. Finland’s economy has fallen sharply as a result of a corona pandemic, while central government expenditure has increased. In the current year, central government expenditure has increased to around EUR 68.7 billion, resulting in an increase of the central government deficit of around EUR 19.7 billion. Next year's draft budget will be around EUR 65.2 billion, i.e. if it is implemented as it is, it would be 3.5 billion smaller than this year. The proposal is EUR 11.7 billion in deficit, which will be covered by additional borrowing. At the end of 21, central government debt is estimated to be around EUR 138 billion, which is about 57 per cent of GDP. The draft budget is based on the Ministry of Finance's forecast that Finland's economy will fall by 4.5 per cent this year. In the near future, we will get a more reliable estimate, and probably the minus figure will be smaller. After all, Finland has done almost the best of the European Union's economies in this first phase of the corona pandemic. The growth rate for next year is estimated at 2.6. The draft budget estimates the employment rate to fall to 71.5 per cent and the unemployment rate to 8 per cent this year. The number of employed persons is projected to continue to decline slightly next year, when the employment rate is estimated to be 71%. The revenue of the central government budget without net borrowing is estimated to be EUR 53.5 billion next year, and tax revenue is expected to fall by 4.5% of the actual budget figures for this year, which have been reduced since the amending budget, this expectation. A tightening of taxation next year would mainly target excise duties, with the aim of directing consumption towards a more environmentally friendly and healthier direction. The tightening of consumption taxation has been compensated for by a reduction in income tax for small and medium-income earners. Public debt relative to GDP is growing rapidly as a result of the global corona crisis. According to the draft budget, the debt ratio will rise to around 73% next year and to more than 75% by 24. The debt ratio is also weakened by the increase in expenditure due to the ageing population and by the decline in the working-age population. The Committee on Finance welcomes the fact that the government has implemented an active and effective fiscal policy and feels, like the government, that it should also be continued in 21 years. It is particularly important to prevent a wave of corporate bankruptcy and mass unemployment which could reduce the production capacity of the economy for a long time. According to the notification, the Government will return next year to comply with the spending limits for central government finances. However, the spending limits have been increased by EUR 500 million, which is earmarked for one-off expenditure on the corona virus situation. In addition, the direct costs of health safety, EUR 1.7 billion, will be fully covered outside the spending limits. The committee notes that the crisis is still under way and that economic adjustment is not yet up-to-date. Low interest rates support the ability of public finances to take care of growing debt. For example, this year's record high gross borrowing has been achieved at virtually zero interest rates. The committee has monitored the debt management and the activities of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury and found them well-managed. Borrowings are fixed interest rates and are decentralized over a long period of time in the form of bonds of up to 30 years. The Committee considers it important that the government has drawn up a step-by-step road map of long-term measures to strengthen the sustainability of public finances. The objective is to stabilise the government debt-to-GDP ratio by the end of the decade. However, this sustainability road map still needs to be specified in the spring spending limits debate. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude] Sote reform also has a significant impact on the local government economy, whose state should be carefully assessed when the reform takes place. As has also been mentioned in the context of the social dialogue, it is important to draw attention to this remaining municipal economy that such massive support measures this year are not possible in the long term and that adaptation measures are needed in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u20	At this stage, I would like to inform you that, after the round of group speeches and Mr Vanhanen's speech, we are going to have a debatable one-hour period, which is also possible to divide into two parts, so that people other than those in this Chamber can take part.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u21	Mr President! One of the first things you learn in driving school is to look further away. If you're staring at the road in front of a car, it's impossible to drive proactively. It is also good to remember to change short lights for long periods. This is the only way to react to sudden situations and prepare for the future. These simple doctrines also apply now that the budget is being drawn up in the midst of the crisis in view of the future. With this budget, the government is already creating a bridge and a controlled transition to the post-crisis period. The budget still includes crisis financing to safeguard and support the functioning of society, both for citizens and for businesses and employers that maintain employment. After the crisis, however, we must be patient. The Social Democrats do not want to build the future on quick profits. Trust is a force that sustains society. We must ensure that both ordinary Finns and business can look to the future with the greatest possible peace of mind. Functioning basic services in municipalities are the cornerstone of everyday safety. Nurses, teachers, youth workers and all professionals take care of them daily. In the midst of the crisis, people are in great need of help. There must be sufficient resources for the management of the interest rate and the resulting maintenance debt must be corrected immediately. That is why the government will support municipalities next year with EUR 1.45 billion. The Government also secures the resources of organisations, the police and the judiciary. Mr President! Our export industry is an important cornerstone of the Finnish economy and employment. The government will support the competitiveness and renewal of industry by lowering the electricity tax to the minimum allowed by the EU next year. A new fixed-term support for electrification will be created in energy-intensive sectors and fairway charges will be halved. Interest is not a lasting reason to suspend climate objectives. The Social Democrats are committed to halting climate change. For us, clean nature, water and air are worth protecting. However, we see that climate action, growth policy and employment are mutually supportive. Global markets and large capital are already heading towards carbon-free forms of energy, towards new technologies and digital solutions. Finnish companies need to keep up with the development so that the export industry gets on its feet and new jobs are created in Finland. Green growth and a joint EU recovery are an important part of the future of a small export-driven Finland. Finland can and must be part of a global solution. Mr President! The Socialist Group in Parliament does not believe that sustainable growth is achieved by cutting social security, by increasing income disparities or by curling up inwards as a nation. The government does not cut off work-linked leave, earnings-related unemployment benefit or pensions for the unemployed in the same way as the Coalition Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u31	Mr President! Even though it's not the eve, we peeked at what the government's gift scrolls contain. The Social Democrats remember pensioners by raising the cost of living. In owner-occupied housing, a retired woman living alone in an apartment building will continue to retire to more than 42 per cent of the pension. When comrades in municipalities also increase property tax, a drop hits pensioners in particular — a tax when the payer’s income is not taken into account in any way. One household in six is unable to cover housing costs with its own income, and even so, proper increases are being made in heating fuel prices. There are nearly 200,000 small houses that warm up with oil in Finland, of which up to half live in the elderly. Even district heat is tilting. The SDP did not accept the proposals for tax reductions for occupational pensions and support for informal care, but Kojamo's rent increases and tax-free millions of dividends for trade unions are like a pay box for the people last Christmas. There is no point in talking about the social and pension security of entrepreneurs or about correcting the inadequacies of an entrepreneur's pension insurance. Now the assistant army is on the pension line and the widow's pension — and the sock, my God! Speaking of the military, the Red Package of the Left Alliance reveals every pioneer's HX favorite gift, that is, 10 billion multi-functional fighters. The Committee on Finance is preparing for procurement at the 2021 level, i.e. the sum of index increases and currency changes may be higher — and this is what the left is wrapping up for its voters. [Pia Salmonikoski interlude] However, the most damaging fruit cake in cooperation is a stimulus package. In it, Italy, Spain and France are raising lower taxes on their own citizens to taste the government’s hospitality, i.e. Finnish taxpayers’ money. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude] Mr President! The Greens did not even have time to read the wish list, because the time went by when they met the Constitution. But even the Kortunturi is not in Al-Hol, and in the light of the employment figures, neither can the wise men. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u32	Mr President! Korona has deprived many employees and entrepreneurs of their livelihoods. The worsening disease situation for social and health care professionals is, in turn, building up an excessive workload. Finns have great concerns about their own health and the health of their loved ones. Concern is not limited to corona, but also to the increase in loneliness, exclusion and mental health problems. Fortunately, positive news from the vaccine is a source of hope that the corona crisis can be overcome. We are in a difficult situation to decide on the common money of all Finns for next year. Expenditure will be well above revenue in 21 C.E. In this situation, it is justified for the State to assume responsibility for an exceptional pandemic. However, the future cannot be built on the self-repair of problems. After the crisis, we need to get the economy and employment to grow and stop borrowing. Mr President! It does not happen to the assembly that the government is using the taxpayer's credit card without any plan of how to put the economy in order and pay off the debt one day. There's only one thing that's for sure. The bill's coming up. With government policy, our public finances will be in severe deficit even in ten years' time. When will you, Prime Minister Marin, tell the Finns how the debt now taken will be paid off in the future? How do we get jobs for Finns? How can Finland be put on the road to sustainable growth? These are the questions we want from you. Behind the interest, you, good government, can't hide. Indeed, you have found time to build up your ideological reforms, social reform and the extension of compulsory school life, which, according to your own estimates, will increase Finland's debt in this decade. Why has no time been found for measures to boost employment and growth? Mr President! Finland needs a plan that creates hope and trust for the future of Finns. In the meantime, in the meeting, we have built our own alternative for Finland, a path of hope. The Government has not made decisions on employment; the option of the Coalition Party brings work and livelihood to 120,000 Finns. The government has no plan whatsoever as to how to put an end to the violent debt; the alternative to the coalition is to put the debt under control. The government throws gravel at the back of economic growth with new tax increases; the option of the Coalition Party leaves the average of 500 to the employed and entrepreneur and 300 euros per year to the pensioner. The Government hires teachers for short-term work with project money; under the Coalition Party option, the investments in education are made on a permanent basis and teachers are regularly hired to do their valuable work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u35	Mr President! After all, this is quite something: The Finns of Finland and the National Coalition Party are talking here about using a credit card and paying the debt. In fact, both would have taken debt in the same proportion as the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u50	Madam President, ärade fru talman! The recession in the '90s left ugly marks on our country. Too many lost their life’s work, livelihood, health, family, and hope. Now we're in the same situation. This vile virus and the fight against it have put us in danger. Too many people are again threatening to lose their jobs, their health and their hope. That is why special government action has been needed quickly, in a timely and repeated manner. We have taken nearly EUR 20 billion in debt this year and we will also be prepared to take it next year, which is a cause for concern. That is why even myself was relieved to hear the comments of the best financial experts in Finland about the chosen line. They believe that this is the right one and that it is a stimulus for an effective employment policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u51	Madam President! Next year's budget has been drawn up as one of the most difficult times in our country's history, at a time marked by economic uncertainty and concern for our loved ones and for our own health. In the Left Alliance, we strongly believe that an equal and inclusive society is the best for all of us. Now is the time to tackle the growth of inequality. We know that the corona crisis has had a different effect on people's lives. Older and disadvantaged people have become more and more ill. The interest-rate crisis has made class society more visible. Many of us in a good labour market position have been able to protect themselves from remote work, while workers in the physically low-wage sector have not been able to do so. I have often wondered how my former colleagues in the trade have been able to combine work and caring for children at a distance. Have ordinary day - to - day heroes received the appreciation and praise they deserve for turning and stretching the wheels of society to the limit? Will their efforts still be remembered after the crisis? I hope so. It is likely that the polarisation that has already existed between families has only increased during the corona. This must be taken into account both in economic and family policy in the coming years. Many of the working-age elderly living alone have also suffered social isolation, and the anxiety and stress of those living alone have remained too invisible when talking about the corona crisis. In particular, I am concerned about the consequences of this crisis on children and young people. Distance learning periods, unemployment for parents and the end of your beloved hobby are very difficult for many. Mr President! Finland now needs future investment in strengthening continuous learning and education and developing working life and well-being at work. We also need measures to support people's livelihoods and mental well-being and well-being. Most of the vital services for people are the responsibility of municipalities. It is therefore necessary to strengthen municipal welfare and basic services next year with a support package of EUR 1.45 billion. In addition, the government has undertaken to reimburse all the direct costs associated with the management of the interest rate. The situation of the elderly will also be improved by reducing the maintenance debt incurred during the interest rate. EUR 22 million will be allocated to the development of home and informal care next year. I am also pleased that the funding of social welfare, health and youth organisations has been secured by the state budget next year. The work of the organisations is of paramount importance. In its report, the Committee on Finance also drew attention to the availability of mental health services. In particular, preventive and low-threshold services need to be invested. Mr President! As the Committee on Finance states in its report, we must now prevent the long-term deterioration of the conditions for economic growth. The wave of bankruptcy and mass unemployment have so far been avoided. In this economic situation, employment is best supported by a stimulating policy. The right-wing opposition, on the other hand, wants to complicate the situation of already disadvantaged Finns. The more than 400 million cuts in social security proposed by the Coalition Party or populist tax cuts by the Finns would be a particularly irresponsible policy in the midst of this crisis. This government, on the other hand, looks to the future. Scientific research on the effects of the crisis is of paramount importance in order to address inequalities. I am very proud that the free second stage and the reform of compulsory education will finally come about. Free second degree is a significant hand extension for families with children. It is particularly beneficial for low incomes, but it is also an important relief for other families. From the point of view of the fairness of generations, the investments made next year in increasing the use of renewable energy, promoting the circular economy and improving biodiversity are also important. It is also appropriate to reconsider the purchase of the fighter, which is estimated to be at least equal to the cost of the interest rate. Mr President! Economic policy shows in its most concrete terms the value choices and priorities of the various governments. The Government has chosen as its red thread to improve equality and equality. This year, the corona crisis presented us with enormous challenges, but it is now all the more important to stick to this red thread. The post-crisis management will continue for a long time, and the 2021 budget
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u52	Mr President! The OECD published its country report on Finland last Thursday. The conclusions of the analysis are not surprising and the report deals with much of the same issues as those raised by the Committee on Budgets in its budget report. It is a matter of familiar pain: the state is in debt and the employment rate is stalling. This message must be taken seriously. Although, in the current situation of interest rates, we do not have much of an economic policy option, we must be able to quickly build a credible and concrete path to balance public finances,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u55	Madam President! The State budget for next year has been discussed in Parliament under different circumstances. Korona has branded work in this house. The interest also marks the government's draft budget. In early autumn, the draft budget was in deficit of more than EUR 10 billion. In November, the government increased the deficit by an additional billion in its supplementary proposal. Finally, in the Committee on Finance, the government parties decided to distribute 40 million Christmas gifts to various projects. All of this will come on top of the extra 20 billion this year. The Christian Democratic Parliament does not oppose debt in itself. We consider it important that the government budget takes account of the difficult economic situation caused by the corona crisis. Municipalities, hospital districts, businesses and people who have lost their jobs and their livelihoods need support in this situation. The wheels of the economy must be kept in motion. Now if you ever need a CPR. In this respect, the KD supports expenditure increases in line with the draft budget. However, in addition to the necessary interest-rate subsidies and other compulsory additional expenditure, the government will increase public spending in the long term in implementing the various projects included in the Government Programme — the Government Programme, which has been carried out under completely different circumstances — the clearest example of extending compulsory education, which will increase government spending by EUR 22 million next year but by up to EUR 150 million per year in the coming years. At the same time, the quality of secondary education is undermined. Under these circumstances, the government should have withdrawn the extension of compulsory education and other projects, which in the long term will increase the burden on municipalities, businesses and Finnish taxpayers. Although the government takes on a massive amount of new debt, its revitalizing effect remains small. In the opinion of the KD Group, the government should have been able to take decisions on structural reforms and employment measures that create faith in the future. There will be no such action. Government reform of social security mainly increases the problems of public finances. Social security reform has not yet progressed at all, and employment measures are shining by their absence. In the context of their alternative budget, the Christian Democrats published an employment package that could reach up to 100,000 new jobs. Take it as an example for the spring debate on employment. In our own protest, we emphasise the importance of tax relief in recovery. The KD-Parliament Group proposes, among other things, a reduction in income tax, the refund of child benefit, the exemption of informal care support, the increase in the household allowance and the reduction in fuel taxation. The KD is also opposed to the government's intention to increase the tax on heating fuels. In the protest, we are only offering moderate increases in government spending. The main funding needs relate to improving the level of care for the elderly, introducing a therapeutic guarantee and supporting families with children. To improve the status of families with multiple children, we propose the abolition of early childhood education fees for siblings. Additional funds are also needed to restore the celiac disease allowance and to support associations that distribute food aid. Despite budget increases and tax reductions, our options must be balanced. We would revive more effectively and, at the same time, take less debt than the government. Mr President! Finally, I have a motion of censure in accordance with protest 3 of the Christian Democrats: ‘The Commission acknowledges that the government’s economic and employment policy is not on a sustainable basis. In view of the financial crisis caused by the interest rate, the government should have agreed on a new government programme and cancelled reforms that would increase the long-term government deficit. Increasing permanent expenditure without measures to strengthen employment is jeopardising the sustainability of the welfare state. Government decisions increase the costs of housing and mobility, increase social inequalities and weaken the position of rural populations in particular. As a result, Parliament states that the government has failed and does not enjoy Parliament’s trust.”
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u56	Mr President, ärade talman! Former President of the Centre and former Minister of Finance Katri The interview on the corner was hard text this weekend. You'd think the government's ears would be red. ‘It has now beenyearedonly by the distribution of debt and has been I can't agree with you. ‘At least the Centre should stick to the objectives set. It can’t be that you forget under the corona that we had really big financial problems even before the pandemic,” I continued. That's right. That's honest, Congressman Kulmun. What do your party ministers say about this? The government's five seem to be synchronizing well, together with photos and social media updates and a lot of smiles. Taxpayers don't smile. The only thing that is certain about this is that the second decade of the economy is already wasted in the absence of decisions and the programmes of at least the next two governments have been written down. There is a lot of talk in government economic and employment policy, but there is no action. There are goals, but there are no means. Now we're working on removing the pension line. The sense of proportion is completely lost. Such measures will not create genuine jobs. In addition, airbags will be built so that the whole exercise will be expensive for public finances. It is good to remember that this year alone, 20 billion eating debts are already being taken up, and that debt was already taken before the interest rate. Now wake up and listen to the sound of reason! The question of the supplier of MTV was illustrated, for which an extra one billion municipalities were required. Ministers Marin and Saarikko were dead. This would be a great opportunity to respond, and interest rate measures are not enough to answer. Let's not be poor, let's not be sick, not even a billion won't feel anything. [Base Finns Group : Elections approaching!] Mr President, ärade talman! Economic and employment policy decisions are urgent. The OECD predicts only under 2% economic growth in Finland in the coming years, which is at the end of the EU. The government can apply for blame in the mirror. Minister Vanhanen is apparently starting to wake up to the reality after the corona. Growth, investments and new jobs need flexibility in working life, as well as local reconciliation and better productivity. Vanhanen talks about just the right things, but what group of people can make these decisions? Regarding corporate taxation, Vanhanen said that the package dares not be opened with this configuration, when you have no idea what it will be. It tells us a lot about the ability of this government to function. The credibility and continuity of the government is undermined by the fact that Vanhanen has promised to be only a short-term minister, even if it is long. Will Vanhanen leave after the municipal elections or before the next budget is made? This does not reflect long-term efforts to restore the economy. The interest rate has brought much uncertainty, but much more uncertainty is caused by Finland's inability to renew itself. In Sweden and Germany, the demos have been able to reform the structures of working life and bring competitiveness, but here we have the demos focusing on buying out well-functioning contracts for private health services at all costs. Only by swelling the public sector and raising taxes will this country choke. The government talks about Nordic employment services, cutting the pension pipeline and a few thousand possible jobs. Now is the last time to stop talking nonsense and getting busy. Minister Vanhanen speaks of the spring budget debate as an important milestone. If there are really decisions at the table, the preparation of the laws should already be fully under way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u57	Minister Vanhanen, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u58	Mr President! Thank you to the parliamentary committees, in particular the Committee on Finance and its sections, for the valuable and thorough work that has been done during the autumn within the framework of the 21st budget. The Committee on Finance has shown an increase of EUR 40 million in the items it considers important, and it also proposes four statements for approval by Parliament. After the committee's amendments, EUR 5 million remain out of the unallocated reserve for the 21 spending limits. In addition, EUR 300 million has been earmarked for 21 years for the amending budget and EUR 500 million for one-off and fiscally mandatory expenditure related to the corona virus situation. This is our room for manoeuvre next year, when the spending limits will again be in force after an exceptional year of interest. In opposition protests, attention is drawn to more than 250 different, very detailed statements made by the True Finns. Their overall impact is difficult to assess, but many of them would lead to additional expenditure. Above all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the way hundreds of statements are made is the way in which the country is managed, but ultimately when decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u63	Now we are entering the debatable phase, and I would ask those Members who wish to use the debat to reply, to stand up and press the V button to press the request for the floor. And let me remind you that when you get your speech, the microphone is always better. — The first response, Mrs Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u64	Mr President! The most serious consequence of the interest rate epidemic is neither health nor economic. The worst thing is that the corona has provided the red - green government with an excuse not to do anything about the chronic problems that existed before the corona. The balance of public finances is not very complex. First of all, when the money isn't enough for everything, we have to shut down the hangover wells. We cannot afford to dump EUR 1 billion a year on development aid or EUR 1.5 billion on social benefits for foreigners. Secondly, employment will not increase unless Finland is a competitive operating environment for businesses and if the employee leaves nothing in his hands after taxes and housing costs. The tax burden must therefore be cut, but of course this will not work unless the waste stops.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u65	Mr President! ‘It is not possible for him to forget that we had an economic problem with the The year has only been spent on the distribution of debt money. There has been an agreement on this, but not on economic recovery.” — You do not believe me, but that is exactly what Mr Kulmuni, the former Minister of Finance, said the other day in an interview with the Evening Sanomat. He might know what he's talking about. We propose an alternative that tackles the persistent problems of the Finnish economy, especially the heavy taxation of labour. We will do so in a way that will, at the same time, reduce the deficit next year. Government, why can't you take up our proposal: EUR 500 more for average income in wage taxation
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u66	Congressman Viitanen. - Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u67	Excuse me, Your Honor. — Yes, I was just about to say that there is hardly any urgent need for the government to take up the proposals of the Coalition Party, at least insofar as the song is very familiar. When we looked at your alternative budget, justice was a long way off. The assembly could still afford to discipline the unemployed, cut future pensions, housing allowance, income support — all of this. President! The basic Finns’ line was a little strange in their alternative budget. We found that those household lunches are very scarce when, for example, four times more than they are cutting from the Ministry of the Environment, and then the cuts from the Finnish nature became a new target. There, then, the campfire is a little deserted when the money has been cut off or clean fishing waters have suffered.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u68	Madam President! The therapy guarantee is something that, for some reason, is not good enough for this left-wing government, and that is what we are wondering at the assembly. [Left: That's not true! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u69	Madam President! I have no doubt that Mr Vanhanen, the current Minister for Finance, shares the worrying picture of public finances that I myself spoke about in that interview which came up here. And in the centre the situation is well understood, but it is understood in the whole government, that is probably the situation. No one here has criticised the interest rate measures, as we have talked about many times, but now that we come to the employment measures and to the strengthening of public finances and the way in which the government agreed on a sustainability gap, a road map for a long-term perspective and the employment measures would strengthen the economy, unfortunately — and this was also the subject of debate in the Committee on Budgets — they are not now in balance. They are therefore unbelievable, so fiscal consolidation, debt reduction and debt sustainability building, strengthening employment measures for public finances require the coordination of the sustainability road map with their employment policies so that they strengthen public finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u70	Honorable Speaker! The economic outlook, as we are well aware, is rather foggy, but perhaps the light of the lighthouse will be visible next spring, especially if the government will then be able to come up with and implement the proposals for employment measures in the spring. Government debt is at a record level. This is, of course, the result of a huge fall in income and an enormous increase in expenditure. But you always have to remember what we do with that public debt. After all, it provides services to citizens, residents and citizens in general, but now the question arises as to whether these services are really what people want them to be. I would point out that in the coming years we really need to think about what services we produce and how they are produced. The productivity of the public sector and its increase will be at the heart of the future. In this protest we have 255 proposals for measures, and about one-third, one-quarter of them:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u71	Mr President! As Chairman of the Committee on Finance, I have heard a very constructive debate over the course of the year at the meetings there, and often government groups become more critical questions and comments and suggestions than the opposition. It has been rather strange with regard to this content of group speeches. In particular, the Finnish people’s speech was not in any way related to what they have presented in the committee work. And, as Mrs Vähämäki said, this big line
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u73	Mr President! Now that Mr Koskinen is opening up the internal affairs of the committees in the public debate in Parliament, I too wonder how he is asking such difficult questions in the committee himself from government ministers. Can't the chairman of the committee from the government party get answers to those questions that way? But this waste with this corona is a European phenomenon. The big ones ahead, the little ones behind. The big southern European countries are spending the corona on things they should have done before, including Finnish money. Finns do waste, but they also pay for spending in southern Europe. Minister of Finance Vanhanen said that ten years of slow growth should be avoided. I agree, but the government does not propose any means of avoiding them. You do not have any employment measures. And secondly, I would like Prime Minister Marin to explain whether this is a municipal budget for the SDP, that municipalities are over-subscribed by billions before the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u75	Madam President! This budget has been made for a year which will be quite exceptional, just as this year has been. In this exceptional situation, this budget must therefore be corrected and, at the same time, reformed. This budget solves many problems: climate change and the environmental crisis, the economic crisis caused by the corona, but also the everyday challenges of people. Interest-recovery is used to support positive, sustainable change and is now investing especially in knowledge. There have been many speeches in this Chamber which criticise debt. Of course, debt-taking must always be done very prudently and sparingly too, but does anyone here think that we should not now take debt into recovery, that we should not support municipalities and support businesses? And when you talk about debt, you must also remember that our most heavy debt is climate debt. The climate does not wait, and that is why this budget supports the Government's path towards climate neutrality in 2035.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u76	Mr President! Minister Vanhanen and several representatives of the government parties refer to this debt by saying that others are also in debt. Well, they will, but it's very short-term compared to us. If you look at Sweden and Germany, then in those countries, first of all, the government budget was in surplus for the last eight years, unlike us, and those countries are going back to surplus in a few years' time, unlike us. Finland’s public finances will remain 10 billion in deficit from here to so-called eternity when looking at that forecast of the VM. And in order not to be forgotten, a year ago, when the interest rate was not yet known, the government was making a deficit of more than 5 billion at the end of the spending limits period. I would ask — when everyone knows that we will never pay these debts if Finland does not grow — why on earth will you not make the structural reforms? It's been two years since next spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u77	Madam President! Congressman Pitko asked me what the alternative is if we don't revive now. Yes, the Christian Democrats are in favour of a recovery in such a situation, but what we are questioning is that there should not be the structural reforms that would have been necessary in the previous period and especially now in this situation, because now that structural reforms are not being carried out, it means that the increase in costs will also continue to take place over a long period of time and will increase our debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u78	Madam President! Every budget has to be improved; no budget is perfect. Surely we would all have items that we would change in it, but of course, whenever we are critical of the budget, it should also be mirrored in those alternatives, and both the Coalition Party and the Basic Finns have presented their own options, and when they are mirrored, you can see that this is pretty good. If you think about the alternative reality budget of the Finns, there's a magical wall of immigration from which you take more than you go to,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u81	Mr President! For at least ten years, it has been obvious in this Chamber that the Finnish welfare society will not survive if the employment rate cannot be raised if the incentives to do business, investment, work cannot be strengthened. And now that the SDP is being criticised here in particular, a little history is being remembered: in the run-up to the 2011 elections, the SDP said that reforms should not be made to the pension system, during the last parliamentary term, the SDP opposed all the employment reforms that eventually gave birth to the country almost
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u82	Madam President! As Vice-President of the Finance Committee, I would like to thank the President-in-Office and our committee for a fine report. This is a very central budget, after all. This is just the health ahead of us, so we need to get the vaccinations fixed next year. Work is a very important issue [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u83	Mr President! There is much talk of resuscitation in this Chamber, but clearly we do not think the same way about how to target it. At the same time, there are criticisms of the fact that municipalities are being given too much money — one billion should be less at their disposal — and at the same time a therapeutic guarantee is required. If we're just going to plant money
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u86	Mr President! I would like to ask you about one important detail: both Prime Minister Marin and Minister of Finance Vanhanen have now promised to shorten this unemployment pipeline, that is to say, the reduction in earnings security, that is, their additional days before Christmas. Apparently you have 72 hours to do that unless you want this decision to come at Christmas week. Is there a press conference coming up? I'm also interested in ratings. After all, scientists agree on this. Well, in the SDP's group speech again, Mr Mäkinen said that the SDP would not accept any cuts in unemployment benefit. There's someone here who's leading you astray. Are we preparing to shorten or remove the pipe, and is the SDP adopting such a decision? Or is this whole reform project going to cancel or pull over the turn of the year again?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u87	Värderade Talman! Budgeten för nästa år är till stora delar en coronaåterhämtningsbudget. Det är viktigt att vi nu stöder kommuner, företag och organisationer över det tyngsta skdet så att de också i fortsättningen kan vara med i vårt samhällsbygge och erbjuda den service vi medborgare behöver. Det är speciellt viktigt att vi nu esätter kommunerna fullt ut för de direkta kostnader som upkommit till följd av coronaepidemin.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u88	Madam President! First, for the SDP and the left: We trust that the current resources of the YM, the responsible actions and cooperation of Finns will safeguard Finnish nature conservation and make sustainable use of natural resources. We proposed a reduction in the additional appropriations for the COM proposed by the government. Mr President! What about downtown? The city center wants to keep itself in government. Nothing else seems to matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u89	Mr President! The government has pursued a very responsible tax policy: a tax on electricity from industry and agriculture to EU minimises, a further reduction in the company's product development, the commitment of personnel to growth companies through a tax solution that supports ownership, the increase in the VAT threshold for small entrepreneurs, the double depreciation of machinery, the tax on dividends and entrepreneurial deductions of non-listed limited companies will continue to be unchanged. On the other hand, the tax policy of the Coalition Party is living in isolation from economic reality when it distributes completely approximate tax reductions across the board with debt money.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u91	Madam President! Marin's government is making a path towards the lost decade. It was good to have a representative. My corner said it out loud that the Emperor has no clothes. A policy based on strong left-wing ideology undermines the foundations of a welfare society. First of all, employment measures are still at the starting point. Secondly, in other parts of Europe, tax reductions are being used to revive, but what is the Finnish Government doing? Tighten taxes on ordinary employees and pensioners. [Requests for reply]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u92	Mr President! Tax recovery is problematic in the sense that if it is put into the world, in large sums of money, it is so expensive that we cannot afford it at the moment. In my opinion, Mr Kiviranta here well described the kind of tax recovery that has been made: it has targeted measures on areas where the costs, i.e. tax losses, are not high, but they have a high impact. There is a lot of structural reforms here, and it seems kind of crazy today. Today we have accepted the extension of compulsory education, yesterday we have received a social reform in this Chamber, both of which can be regarded as the biggest structural reforms of this decade.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u93	Mr President! I appreciate the efforts made by representatives Koskinen and Filatov to remove this debate from this responsible tax line mentioned by Kiviranta. After all, the centre does not understand its own interests here, but constantly wants us to discuss the tax increase in transport fuels, the tax increase in working machinery, the dismantling of peat burning, the cut in the household allowance and so on. But the Social Democrats' pension policies surprise me. I understand that your supporters are mainly made up of pensioners and women. Yet you want to give widows a widow’s pension for Christmas, and housing costs are constantly increasing. Oil heating, for example, will have such drastic increases that it will significantly reduce the purchasing power of older people in particular. These are really cold Christmas gifts for Finns. Could Prime Minister Marin at least consider the proposals of the Finns on tax reductions for occupational pensions and support for informal care?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u94	Mr President! Efforts to improve employment have not been abandoned due to the interest rate crisis, as the impact of the crisis on public finances will further increase the importance of the employment objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u98	Let us take one more speech from the representative and then the ministers, and then we will start a new debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u99	Mr President! Recovery is the most important employment policy. By supporting municipalities, the government aims to ensure that municipalities do not have to cut because of the corona crisis, but that basic services are secured. The opposition believes that municipalities have been oversubsidised. The opposition therefore wants basic services to be weakened into the everyday lives of residents. The government is investing in education. The historic extension of compulsory education will take place and, at the same time, we will invest in every level of education. The opposition has called for better employment measures in the midst of the interest rate crisis, but has not itself proposed any real employment measures. In the alternative budget of the Coalition Party, employment would improve by cutting income security, unemployment benefit and housing allowance for the poorest. Are 120,000 new jobs in the Assembly as solid as the figure mentioned yesterday in the plenary session by Mr Risiko that the previous government did extensive training cuts because they created 140,000 new jobs? What are the logics of training cutbacks?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u100	Prime Minister, 1 minute, then Finance Minister, 3 minutes. And then we start the debut again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u101	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Recognition of the facts is the beginning of wisdom, and now that we are dealing with next year's budget, the fact is that we are still in the midst of a deep crisis, a very deep and serious crisis. In a crisis like this, where we are, the best policy must be to minimise damage, and that is what we have done — in this year's budgets, next year's budget, this work has been done. Many of you have talked about debt, and when we look ahead, the most effective way to prevent future debt is to revive it, to ensure that when growth starts, Finland will be involved in it. That is why we need to take the decisions together to ensure that Finnish companies, Finnish households, Finnish regions and municipalities survive this crisis and catch up when growth starts. This is also illustrated by the government's budget for next year, and I think it is in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u102	Mr President! Maybe three topics: First of all, I would ask the Finns of Finland to tell me on what page in the budget book this scrapping of the widow's pension is on. It is difficult to discuss when I did not quite catch up with what government proposal you are referring to in this budget. Another issue with regard to this support for municipalities, which was perhaps the biggest example of mistrust in terms of scale for the government: that there is extra money for the municipalities. Of course, this basic strategy must be considered when making decisions in economic policy. In the case of municipalities, we could not afford to wait for the financial statements or the kind of economic situation that the interest rate is going to cause in the municipalities, but we decided to act in advance with the knowledge and understanding of what the crisis might be like at its worst. We wanted to ensure that municipal decision-makers and officials in municipalities are able to function fully, especially in the field of health care, during this year and in the course of next year. The fact that that money is inside the public sector is not wasted money. I believe — if some positive points are sought — that in these crisis years a great many municipalities will escape this kind of crisis settlement procedure because this crisis will not bring us into distress. The third issue relates to taxation. In fact, Mr Kiviranta listed it. The government has invested hundreds of millions of euros in specifically targeted solutions for business. Alvi's lower limit is raised, it concerns micro-enterprises. The electricity tax will be reduced, mainly for industry. Make the entire R&D reduction scheme for the business field. The levy is reduced; it is important for exports. Double depreciation of machines will stimulate investment. This targeted approach is much more sensible when considering carefully what tax reductions are used for than such a general approach, such as a reduction in income tax. For the reduction of income tax, the employment impact is estimated at EUR 180000 per job born. It would be cost-effective in such a situation. Mr President! When the list of structural reforms is called for, it may be because the parties, especially the government and the opposition, have a different idea of what kind of structural reforms are needed. For the government, compulsory education and social inclusion are structural reforms which are seen to be useful in the long term. Now we have to create hard ground under our feet. By the end of the year, the government will carry out structural reforms in the field of employment for those over 55 years of age, and more will be needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u104	Thank you. — Let us now move on to the second stage of the debate. I would ask those representatives who wish to participate in the debate to press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u105	Mr President! This year, seven amending budgets amounted to EUR 14 billion, the largest figures after the wars. The reason is, of course, this treacherous enemy, the corona, which Finland has been successful internationally, both in economic terms and, of course, in the event of the disease itself. The coming year will bring the same challenges. We will have to revive ourselves and together with the European Union. This is important. The government has been asked to take action to improve the employment situation, specifically employment measures. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: are not the stimulus measures in the final analysis all employment measures? What is the difference — of course this is going to have to be done indeficitly now, but as Riitta Mäkinen, the user of our group speech, said: ‘Currently does not create sustainable growth. “ Not by cutting social security, by increasing income disparities — it does not create growth
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u106	Mr President! Now it's about where you put the money. The Finns Party specifically want to be on the side of Finnish and Finnish citizens and on the side of Finland. Regrettably, the current government is putting so much money there in the direction of Africa. It is also quite shocking that money is being put into the EU. The problem is that more than 6 billion will be given there, and we will be able to recover 3 — perhaps — that is, a time of poor efficiency. If we go to Europe with two bags of money and come back with one bag, then it has a bad efficiency. Now we have to take into account domesticity and domestic support. Finland’s competitiveness does not improve abroad by putting money in. It is quite extraordinary that the government programme cannot be changed or updated, even though we go deep into the swamp and the corona is. Now it's good to cancel the fuel tax increases. At least turn the allowance for informal care tax-free. Minister Vanhanen highlighted this competitiveness, but I do not quite understand how Finland's competitiveness can be improved by giving talent money to Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u107	Mr President! There is a really challenging and exceptional year behind us, and it is likely that there will be another quite similar year. It is therefore justified and important to be prepared in the midst of the corona crisis to look after people's health and the survival of healthy businesses. However, I am concerned about the government's carelessness in borrowing. Now that these money taps have been opened, it seems that a lot of things are being done under the guise of the corona crisis that is not necessary. This provision would be more effective than raising the age of compulsory education in order to secure secondary education for young people. Similarly, the problems of social protection could be addressed by means of specific measures without such a massive reform of social welfare administration. We are talking about a different issue when we talk about restructuring. Above all, however, I miss measures to boost employment and growth. Why is it that it is not possible to decide on employment measures? It is the only sustainable way to secure the basis of our prosperity. We have presented, as has been said here, the means to create 120,000 new jobs and they can be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u108	Mr President! There are many good points in the committee report. Here is one: the better the government succeeds in structural reforms that support long-term growth, the less pressure will be placed on sudden adjustment measures. Work has changed dramatically over the last few years and will change even more rapidly in the years to come because of the corona. It is quite clear that the labour market must also be reformed to reflect the reality of this time and of a rapidly changing working life next year. Local agreement needs to be increased, but at the same time security needs to be increased when flexibility is increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u111	Mr President! We have had to make next year's budget in the midst of the interest rate crisis and under conditions. While we are focusing on overcoming the crisis, it is important to have a look in the future. The green recovery that is currently being prepared is a sustainable and responsible way out of the corona crisis, not only of the climate change and natural disasters that threaten our way of life. The carbon neutrality targets will be promoted in next year's budget by billions of euros. At the same time, we will create export opportunities for new environmental technology solutions and create new jobs. Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about employment and promoting it. I agree that all the stones must now be turned around to create new jobs, but it must be done in a sustainable, environmentally friendly way, and indeed, this green recovery is now a unique opportunity for us to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u112	President! The budget allocates EUR 10 billion in order to purchase new fighters. This is one of the most expensive arms acquisitions in the history of Finland at a time when the state is in debt due to the interest rate of at least 30 billion. Three out of four Finns would be prepared to postpone the acquisition of the destroyer due to the economic situation. The same has been said by the Left Alliance. In the budget, the obligation to order jets is not limited in terms of quantity and purpose, as required by Article 85 of the Constitution. It is unclear what these powers include and what they do not. Life-cycle costs, which are multiples compared to the acquisition, have not been established. This uncertainty of costs has been criticised by VTV. According to constitutional experts, the upper limit for procurement in euros must be in the budget. I am therefore surprised that the Committee on Finance ignores the problem in its report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u113	Irade the Talman! In this challenging situation, it is clear that all measures must be considered, but the government must also, of course, consider what is the output- input ratio, what is the cost of a measure and what is the benefit of it. The Coalition Party has talked a lot about the household allowance, and it will also be considered in the government in the spring, which is a good thing. Similarly, the increases in the fuel tax, which have been strongly criticised here, are now fully in the coalition budget, and the vehicle tax has been overturned. For that, Mr Heinonen will probably thank you for not having to freeze on the steps of the Parliament when the car columns are honking by. There has been talk of entrepreneurship here, and the honourable Member has made a good point about the pro-business and entrepreneurial issues that exist in this budget. When we talk about the longer-term perspective, I would like to make a special point about the fact that, with this budget, entrepreneurial education in schools is also being taken to the next level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u114	Mr President! The Coalition Party has opposed the increases in fuel tax made by the centre and left-wing government. They were the largest in the 21st century at the beginning of August. In our alternative budget, for example, the car tax would be phased out and would thus be able to reform our car fleet. Now I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen: can you promise Finnish entrepreneurs and companies that the taxation of entrepreneurs and businesses will not be increased during this government term? And then there's the music and event business. Yesterday they asked for help from Prime Minister Marin. The Prime Minister has now left the Chamber, but I would like Prime Minister Marin to be able to hear this event, an emergency cry from the music industry. There are tens of thousands of jobs now under threat, and the support of Minister Saariko alone will not save them when it has been only verbal support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u115	Mr President! When you listen to the opposition's proposals, you criticise debt, but at the same time there is a huge amount of tax cuts and cuts for the low-income. I find these proposals rather irresponsible, especially because, when we are living at the top of this crisis, we are now living in this crisis, it is extremely important in this situation to revive and thereby help people to overcome this crisis. We are constantly getting the message from people that they have been left unemployed or that the company is going badly, that Christmas is coming, that it is going to be a very difficult economic situation. In this budget, we are helping people to overcome this crisis, and only then will we be able to do even more of these economic adjustment measures in the future. At the same time, we have also taken up these structural reforms, which have been mentioned here as a social issue, which has been mentioned as an increase in the age of compulsory education, which means that the government is
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u116	Mr President! No permanent challenges in Finnish society must be swept under the uninterested. We have a low birth rate, small age groups and also a difficult dependency ratio. In their own alternative, the Christian Democrats have wanted to target those small increases and also tax reductions, precisely in view of our demographic challenge, that is to say to support families with children, for example, with the return of child-reduction and also with the abolition of day-care fees for siblings. On the other hand, it should be possible to support living in the home of older people, including the exemption from the tax on informal care allowance and the restoration of the household allowance to the previous level, would be such measures. In many other European countries tax recovery has been carried out, unfortunately we have tax evasion. For example, massive support has been provided for families with children in Germany and Estonia.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u117	Mr President! There is also a good dose in the budget for our achievement, namely road projects, which is now an improvement on the basis of last year's development, at least 300 million more for the development of transport infrastructure projects, which we need to ensure that our road and waterway networks do not fail. It's a very big bet. In addition, there are about 30 million for private roads and 28 million for walking and cycling. A small amount of project money will then also be available in these allocation funds, which is estimated. It is, of course, for small projects across Finland that are important in terms of industry, tourism and mobility. With regard to these allocations, there is also flexibility on issues such as the funding of organisations, which has been cut. Perhaps, though, in this time of war, I am raising the funding for this quality register of ours, which had been left out of the budget, which was filled with these allocation funds. That is why it is very important that we have a system of social protection and what quality is being achieved about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u118	Mr President! One government party here praises how many more targets have been made; another, with its last powers, barks at the opposition; the third, as always, moralises. You wouldn't really believe that we're in the middle of an economic and health crisis. There will be a moment when interest rates will start to rise, and then this whole horror may appear to you. We had a sustainability deficit of 4.5% of GDP last year, and it is estimated that next year the central government deficit will increase to 7%, up to 8%. The budgetary position of the public sector is deteriorating almost as sharply as it was during the financial crisis. We Finns are opposed to debt being taken into account for non-essential expenditure that does not improve Finland's future economic growth or the competitiveness of our country or otherwise target the necessities. It is clear, however, that the views of the Finns and the government on it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u119	Mr President! I consider this proposal for finance and the budget before Parliament to be very good. I wonder how these proposals are criticised, for example, for the financing of interest payments to industry and businesses. 3 billion, once and for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u120	Mr President! In a group statement by the SDP, Mr Mäkinen said that it was important to look forward and... [ The speaker’s microphone closes for a moment]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u121	Mr President! We agree that employment measures, which have already been carried out a great deal, and investment in things that will increase employment, must continue. For example, it must be possible to strengthen the employment of those approaching retirement age, even though it may be a bit painful for all of us. The local arrangement must also be continued.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u126	Mr President! First of all, Mr Kosonen and also Mr Kalmari spoke very well about the local agreement and my Kulmuni earlier on about the need for structural reforms. Hopefully, this will turn into a new K-line in the center that will start showing direction. Unfortunately, Mr Kiljunen and his partners did return to the government's line of action, namely that there is a sign of equal treatment for employment. With debt recovery, we will not increase employment in Finland. Everyone knows who's ever looked at it as an expert. In our budget proposal: I would like to see others other than Mr Heinonen sharing this path of hope. This is EUR 2 billion less, that is to say less, and here we would take a billion less debt than the government, and yes, we will make drastic choices. We believe that more than one hundred thousand people are being put to work — that is how people get up from poverty — not so much that artificial breathing is being carried out by raising income transfers, although of course people are in a difficult position there. We need to get to work. That's when we'll get this country in a sustainable state.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u127	Mr President! This, whether structural reforms should be made or a sensible policy in this economic cycle, is not either—or, rather, Mr Mykkänen, this is both—and. Yes, because the state now supports businesses, people and municipalities, saves jobs permanently, permanently, so that we do not have a sustainability gap and debt to explode. At the same time, we are taking action — extending compulsory education, encouraging work, reducing childcare fees and many more — which will then raise structural levels in the long term. But what we choose is, unlike your proposal, that we want to keep everyone involved. In your alternative, the most well-off will be the ones that will benefit most, and those with the least of all, you would take the most. This is simply a choice of values that we do not want to make, and here is the difference.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u128	Mr President! Mr Vanhanen asked where this could be found, and that has become clear in the consultation that this would have budgetary implications. And it is a question of an overall reduction in the purchasing power of older people. After all, the widow’s position is rather weak when often the spouse’s income has been higher. But I understand that Mr Vanhanen does not necessarily want to take a further stand on this Socialist Christmas gift. And that's why I'm asking: Here Mr Kalmari raised these employment measures, and I remember a year ago when the then Minister, Mr Kulmuni, said that the objective was that the employment rate would be 75%. The Bank of Finland now predicts that in 2022 it will be 71. So where exactly are your employment measures? In this book, there is no more of them than the widow’s pension which
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u129	Mr President! The opposition's alternative budgets also show that, in this situation, it is unfortunately necessary to take debt vigorously. The Coalition Party has been criticising government debt here all year long, but it would in practice take up as much debt as the government. The 2021 budget is invigorating, as it should be. Limited cuts would be a completely wrong choice. Fortunately, we get a loan on very good terms. We're paid for it. However, the ratio of public debt must be stabilised by the end of the decade. Many of the convention's tax proposals would benefit the well-earned, and many of its proposals would be very damaging to rural areas. For example, the Coalition Party would attack the refund of the energy tax on agriculture. This would mean a direct reduction in income for agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u130	Honorable Speaker! Employment, increased efficiency and controlled reforms that increase cost-effectiveness — these are the three ways to quickly reverse this huge debt and faster than the government itself proposes. The employment rate forecast is 71 to 71.5. The debt ratio will increase to 75 by 25 C.E. The fiscal policy line in this year's budget is stimulating — or actually next year's budget — which is right, because we need to get those industrial investments in growth and R & D investments as well. And actually, that alternative budget of ours is an industrial policy budget. There are a lot of increases to be made for industry that would contribute to the start-up of investment. But the real question is whether we have the right goal here when we are always talking about employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u131	Mr President! Yes, investment and investment in education and training in this budget will increase employment, and raising the employment rate is important for all of us in considering how to deal with this corona crisis. However, contrary to what the opposition claims, the left-wing alliance does not warm up to the abolition of the pension line, because we do not believe that the weakening of income will help anyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u134	Mr President! Minister of Finance Vanhanen said that we might have a different understanding of the structural reforms we need — and yes, we want structural reforms to reform a functioning labour market, which will enable us to create the lasting, sustainable growth and to correct the problems that have already plagued Finland's economy in the long term, which have not been eliminated by the interest rate, but, on the contrary, are all still there. There is a need for debt recovery, but in addition to that, we could make very good use of tax recovery, as is the case in many other countries, such as an increase in the household allowance. All of this would create economic activity and gradually also provide a basis for strengthening public finances and improving employment and profitability. But what does the government do in this situation: postpone structural employment measures, increase the role of municipalities without adequate funding, and create a new level of government without cost brake or improvement of services,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u135	Mr President! It terrifies me to think where this beloved country of ours would be if the Marin government had not taken such bold, timely and effective action in the course of a year to deal with the corona crisis. Companies would have been left without aid. The result would have been a wave of bankruptcy and dismissals, the situation in the municipalities would now be absolutely catastrophic, and people would have been left alone to wrestle with their problems. Where would we be, Mr President, if the opposition had been listened to? The debt would not have been taken, the debt would not have been revived, the municipalities would not have been supported, businesses and people would not have been supported. Yes, the Marin government has earned its thanks for its hard work over the past year, as well as for this budget for next year — and now there are strong views of the opposition, but I believe that once this year has passed, we can say that we have done well again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u136	Mr President! Indeed, indebtedness is increasing, the sparkly growth of the economy is continuing for a very long time, the sustainability gap is getting worse and the interest rate is increasing the difficulty factors. Mr Kulmuni, former Minister of Finance, took it upon himself to describe this situation in the tabloid columns last weekend and again to mention that the government's speeches on economic and employment policy are greater than those made. This, of course, will further increase the pressure on the forthcoming budget debate. I fully understand the balance between health and the economy, and unfortunately these corona restrictions have hit very hard on service companies and their staff. Indeed, a wave of bankruptcy has been avoided because of the temporary bankruptcy law, and that law is now ending until the end of January. I know that the Finance Minister, Mr Vanhanen, brought this up in an article in Economics magazine,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u137	Mr President! A good bet is not always large. The budget invests in entrepreneurship education, through which many learn the entrepreneurial attitude that is also needed here in Parliament. This will create new entrepreneurship and thus new work. We put half a million into the Youth Entrepreneurship programme and EUR 100000 in the Young Business Village and EUR 300000 in the 4H organisation. This will lead to the emergence of new responsibilities in the country. There is also a need for a reform of continuous learning, to which funds are made available to enable companies to gain skilled labour, because the lack of skills is the main obstacle to growth. By creating precision and conversion training for companies, we will achieve growth and all possible jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u139	Mr President! The Finns Party here want to invest very much in Finnish work and Finns. [Department :Thurson! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u140	I will give two more speeches to this debate and then to the Minister for a few minutes, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u141	Mr President! If we consider an elderly person living in rural areas who uses a car, heats his house with oil and is in such bad condition that he buys a cleaning service from a local company, then by the government the old man’s heating costs, the fuel increases, the deterioration of the household allowance increases the cleaning rate, the cuts in the widow’s pension reduce his purchasing power, the services become worse. These are cutting from the elderly, cutting from the disadvantaged. The dismantling of peat is in a free uncontrollable fall due to government decisions. Do the Greens take account of the social, economic and regional dimensions of the issue? This is where, among other things, Finnish security of supply, work and self-sufficiency are going, while we replace peat burning with wood that is imported from Russia by trucks and from Central Europe by ship. Is this the green resuscitation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u142	Mr President! I have to say that I am really confused about what the Finns have said here in the Chamber. We had a provincial council in North Karelia this week, and there we had a lot of discussion about this recovery fund and structural funds, and I must say that all the parties there together thought about how to make the best use of this money for the benefit of our province. And I must be surprised that here you are, however, opposed to this recovery money and, in fact, to everything that relates to the EU and even to the money that comes from it. As such, it is in line with your debate in the Chamber as well as with your budget proposal. There were statements in your budget protest, in which you put forward good things as such: information system projects, improvement of the network, the elimination of homelessness, reimbursement of medicines — the list is so long that I cannot read. And the point is that you do not have any funding for these either, so I think these are also empty promises. I would like to ask: how are you going to do this if you do not have any money to offer them?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u143	Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u144	Mr President! First, regarding the acquisition of the HX fighter: Of course, when the final decision is taken, both the cost of purchasing and the cost of life cycle must be clear for the fighters, i.e. Parliament will have to know these when it comes to making its decisions. Of course, the possibility of delaying the acquisition of the destroyer, which was raised in Mr Yrttiaho's speech, must also be reflected in the fact that the postponement is not free of charge. Today's machinery would require a substantial overhaul, a renovation, and the government's starting point is that the purchase of fighter equipment will be carried out in such a way that by the end of next year decisions can be reached on the tendering procedure. Secondly, with regard to these structural reforms: this debate clearly shows that some of these are being discussed because there is so much disagreement between them. For example, in the case of social welfare reform, the position of the government and the assembly is quite simply different. We have a very large number of municipalities who are going to thank for the social welfare reform precisely because the social welfare reform transfers the most difficult anticipated item of expenditure from them to finance the state and the municipalities will have a much more stable economy than in the past. With regard to compulsory education, in terms of the way in which education for children and young people is developed, we have a different position. Long live the possibility of different policy options. The Government has brought its own decisions, and social welfare reform is now in the hands of Parliament, among other things. Finally, Mr Vähämäki raised an important issue: industrial competitiveness. That is very crucial for us. All tax solutions previously presented by Mr Kiviranta will have a targeted impact on this competitiveness. But then the basic attitude:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u145	Thank you. — Then we will move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u146	Mr President! I have dealt with VAT in the past, and that is what I am going to do in this speech. I am still concerned about the lone workers in working life, i.e. sole proprietors. VAT is a significant tax on the employment of small entrepreneurs. Both the high rate of VAT and the imposition of tax obligations and the resulting bureaucracy on micro-enterprises will weaken employment. In Finland, the VAT threshold has been EUR 10000, and now it is going to be increased to EUR 15000. The direction is right, but it is not possible for an entrepreneur to earn a living with a sale of that size. The sole entrepreneur must receive at least a small income without the red tape associated with VAT. In terms of employment, the elimination of red tape is even more important than tax benefits. Mr President! When considering the VAT threshold, the purchasing power of each country must, of course, be taken into account. In Estonia, more than half the amount of goods and services is available in one euro than in Finland. Therefore, Estonia’s VAT limit, EUR 40000, corresponds to the EUR 62000 threshold in Finland, taking into account purchasing power. Compared to Finland and taking into account purchasing power statistics, there are 13 countries in the EU community where the VAT threshold exceeds EUR 60000. According to purchasing power calculations, there are three countries in the EU economy where the limit exceeds EUR 90000, i.e. the UK, Poland and France. In addition, in ten countries, the VAT threshold in terms of purchasing power is more than EUR 60000 relative to Finland. They are Ireland, Italy, Croatia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland, the Czech Republic and Estonia. There are 55,000 companies in Finland whose turnover in the second year was between EUR 25,000 and EUR 50000. Of these, 7,000 were loss-making. The average pre-tax entrepreneurial income of profit-making enterprises of that size was EUR 19,000. Very commonly, small entrepreneurs are compromising their pension contributions, i.e. their own days of old age. The average salary of Finns per year is more than double, i.e. EUR 40000, which is worth more than trying to get a pension. Mr President! It is important for all of us that sole entrepreneurs employ themselves. Increasing the VAT rate will help small businesses to grow and thus help to employ new employees. A citizens' initiative to increase the VAT-free sales threshold to EUR 60000 per year has also been launched in the autumn. I encourage everyone to promote the employment of Finns and to sign this citizens' initiative. Small entrepreneurs must now be helped to get along properly and eventually grow bigger. Mr President! It has been suggested and feared that raising the VAT threshold would distort competition between entrepreneurs. It's nothing to be afraid of. Such thinking is socialism, and I would not want anyone to get involved in it. With the right decisions, we have the opportunity to create faith in the future and to believe in trying. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u147	Mr President! The government is taking the hit in the middle of the crisis, and that is what we have done this year and we will do in the coming year. The best policy for employment and welfare is to help people, municipalities and businesses across the crisis. After the acute crisis, it is important to take care of the removal of care debts, skills and research and development. The Committee on Finance rightly draws attention to improving access to mental health services. This is Finland's biggest health problem and has a significant impact on unemployment and exclusion. Through it, it has an expensive price, both humanly and economically. Strengthening mental health services is also one of the most important and effective goals of the social welfare reform, along with the seven-day care guarantee. Mr President! Now we really are moving forward with the structural reforms that are so often hoped for in this House. The reform of social security is an historic major reform, the extension of compulsory education to the largest educational reforms in 50 years, and the reform of social security has already begun. The Nordic Employment Service model also strengthens the Finnish labour market and reduces long-term unemployment in particular. The most important issues of longer-term growth and productivity are increasing R & D activities in Finland according to the R & D roadmap. Stronger cooperation between public and private, universities and municipalities and companies is needed, and we already have several examples of this in Finland, but much more needs to be done. In economic policy, we need to understand from Finland's internal cattails and part-optimization that we operate on the international market and competition between municipalities, cities and companies is international. An equal society is built primarily on high-quality and equal education. In Finland, however, education continues to be inherited and, for example, literacy has deteriorated. Last season's training cuts are still felt in the field. It is therefore important that the government invests in the quality of primary and secondary schools, while extending compulsory education and strengthening support services. The extension of compulsory education and the free second stage adopted today are examples of truly effective reforms to improve long-term productivity and employment. They are not enough on their own; guidance is also needed to raise the level of education, support for studies through, for example, mental health services and student guidance curators. Based on its assessment today, the Bank of Finland estimates that Finland's economy will fall by 3.8 per cent this year. This is one of the smallest falls in Europe, as we know, and the background is the understanding that health and the economy go hand in hand. This is the case in the middle of the crisis, but it is also the case more generally. The European Central Bank, the IMF, the OECD and a number of international economic institutions recommend a strong recovery, which must also continue for a long enough period of time. At the moment, the European Central Bank buys government bonds even more than Finland will be in debt this year. This is a completely new and special situation and we must closely monitor the impact it will have in the longer term, for example, on government debt management costs. We need to do an impressive resuscitation. What is impressive is not the sowing of money across society through tax cuts, but targeted investment. The most effective is to strengthen Finland’s industrial and service export base and know-how. When you listen to the opposition’s criticisms, it sounds as if the municipalities are giving too much money and should instead be given tax rebates to those on good income. However, by regulating competitiveness or the level of taxation, jobs will not be created if there is no demand on the market. That is why it is important that now, both in Finland, in Europe and globally, there is an adequate amount of hard resuscitation. Climate measures are also measures that increase competitiveness and increase demand in the world, which are also strongly supported by Finnish industry. Mr President! The opposition's alternative is cuts in the middle of the crisis and inefficient distribution of money to high incomes. Now we are investing in growth, knowledge, people's purchasing power and companies' competitiveness. At the same time, long-term growth and employment will be strengthened through structural reforms and investment. This is the right line. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u148	Mr President! Even before the corona, it was clear that a government programme bursting with ideological passions would cost Finland dearly and damagingly. It would exacerbate the sustainability gap in both public and private finances and thus Finland’s ability to respond to growing challenges. Since the drafting of that government programme, the challenges have grown to another power with interest rates, the development of the EU's tax and debt union and the irresponsible spending of government money. The loan spike is open in a way that may never happen again. There are no real measures to improve the balance of the economy or Finland's competitiveness. We are living in the midst of an economic and health crisis, globalisation and constant change. Finland too will change and can also be strengthened by change, if it is managed correctly, if we are able to make choices for the good of the citizens, to offer a vision of the future that encourages work, enterprise and investment. This draft budget is full of choices that indicate the direction in which the green left, supported by the centre, leads Finland. The Government has decided that Finland is the EU's throw bag and climate leader, driving down domestic industry. Consumers' and businesses' daily lives are made more difficult and expensive. The so-called green recovery of the government and the EU recovery instrument will prove to be the most expensive mistakes Finland has ever made. The government drives work permits for illegal residents and engages in trick-job employment. This makes it difficult to create new private jobs. The tax wedge, i.e. the difference between employer costs and net wages, is becoming intolerable. The government is leading Finland in such a way that domestic primary production is congested, the sustainability gap is increasing, the public sector is expanding, the public is still in debt and regional inequalities are increasing. Mr President! Finland deserves a different kind of leadership. Our country should be led in such a way that everyday life in Finland is smooth, that people can focus on living their lives in peace without fear of social services falling apart, security is deteriorating and inequality is increasing. In order for this to be possible, priorities must be set. Finland must be particularly careful in the use of limited resources and exceptionally careful in setting priorities for expenditure. We need to get rid of all kinds of futility and ineffectual activity: shelter jobs, illegal landowners, good brother networks. The cost structure of the public sector needs to be reformed and all available resources must be focused on building the competitiveness and vitality of our country — the vitality of healthy citizens and businesses. The alternative for Finns offers industry, businesses and households strength and stability, precisely the vitality and competitiveness that Finland needs. Mr President! The Marin government is not able to lead Finland in the humble interests of the citizens. The government acts as a climate saver, a child rescuer, a coronaguru and a heroess of the rule of law. In fact, however, it raises itself above others regardless of the facts of the economy and what happens in Finnish everyday life. The head of the government is posing on the cover of the newspapers and trying to mislead the people into thinking that Finland will survive by smiling, greening, raising taxes and increasing debt. You don't just fool Finns. Our economy will not be balanced and our competitiveness will not be improved by the doctrines of the Marin government. With this draft budget, Finland must be declared a state of economic emergency. I support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u149	Mr President! Small Finland is facing major challenges in this decade. In that sense, it would be good to have a common understanding of some kind of fundamental economic policy realities and fundamentals in this Chamber, because in this decade Europe, and Finland, will be at great risk of being left behind in the economic success of China and the USA. This is a total reality. Partly due to the demographic structure, but mainly due to the accumulation of the economy, other structures and capital, one might say, even an inevitable trend. This will lead to the fact that year after year-on-year growth in living standards in Europe and thus in Finland will no longer be taken for granted. In other words, the fact that the next generation will get a better country from the point of view of services, safe social security, well-being and employment will no longer be self-evident. And that is why Finland must run faster, fight harder, so that we can secure economic success and thus the basic pillars of the welfare society by the end of the decade. Competition, for example in the international economy, in the era of the new technology platform economy will be increasingly brutal. Winner takes everything, so to speak. There may not be any crumbs for us on certain competitive markets if we are not at the forefront of knowledge, but also at the top of cost competitiveness and prices. At the same time, we in our country have a need for strong structural reforms, which has been going on for the last ten years. The working life should be extended, employment decisions should be taken, public expenditure should be kept under control so that taxes do not increase. Unfortunately, we are already in a situation where an ever-declining proportion of the population is carrying an increasing number of public expenditure, pensions, services and so on. We must ensure good care for the elderly, schools for schoolchildren, pensions for pensioners, but this requires a strengthening of the employment rate. Germany, Denmark, Sweden are examples of European countries that have undertaken reforms in the labour market, reforms in the education system, incentives for business investment to raise wages, pensions and the level of services to a higher level than in Finland. Now Finland has begun a decade, which seems to lead to a spiral of obsolescence if we do not act. During the last parliamentary term in Sipilä's Government, the economic line of the Coalition Party was promoted so that almost 80 employment decisions were taken, resulting in 140,000 jobs in Finland. Of course, a certain appeal to the world market helped, but concrete employment decisions and certain tax cuts also helped to keep public spending under control, because the overall effect was growth. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, such a policy of strengthening economic and employment growth in Finland brings prosperity and tax revenues. Ultimately, that policy will ensure that there will be enough money for services for the elderly in five years' time. The failed employment policy of the Marin government will lead to a crisis in the welfare society if the policy is not changed. And it must be borne in mind that, a year ago on the Rinteen-Marin Government Programme, the financial expert institutions, the Ministry of Finance, the EU Commission, the National Audit Office reminded and warned that the Rinteen-Marin Government Programme, which is currently being implemented, will lead to major problems for the economy, that is to say, that the financing of the welfare society is falling out of control. That is why the line needs to be changed, and the coalition has argued that public spending must be contained and not accelerated, as the government is now proposing. The last security of public finances is that there is a high employment rate. That is why the Coalition Party has presented employment measures to 120 000 jobs. That is why the Coalition Party proposes employment measures, that there will also be money for elderly services at the end of the decade and not just next year for debt money. And in order for the regions to have vitality, so business and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u150	Mr President! As has already been said several times in this Chamber today, we have had to do in the midst of and under the conditions of the interest rate crisis in next year's budget. However, at the end of the tunnel there is light: hope that next year the world will normalize with corona vaccine. In such times, it is perhaps more important than ever for the government to weigh the responsibility of its policy from different perspectives. Korona has disciplined different sectors in a very different way. Shops and restaurants can be open at the same time as cultural operators have lost their earning potential. The staff of social welfare and health care are forced to stretch each month at extreme limits. Teachers and other school staff are responsible for local and distance education in a challenging situation and in the midst of changing recommendations. The government is working to ensure that aid and financial support are as fair as possible and that, at the same time, we are able to build a sustainable path out of this crisis. In this work we still have something to improve. Music, for example, provides a living for over 30,000 people who also need a view of the future. At a time when we save jobs and care for people's livelihoods and well-being, we must keep in mind that climate change, which is closely linked to one another, and the loss of biodiversity — the loss of nature — are also progressing and threatening the well-being of humanity. It is therefore necessary to carry out a systematic assessment of the state budget and of the recovery measures from the point of view of their climate and natural impacts. The starting point should be that our actions do not harm nature or the environment. Here, as a nation of high knowledge, we have the opportunity to be pioneers by creating new jobs and livelihoods at the same time. Mr President! Korona has contributed greatly to the learning of children. With this budget, we will invest both in early support and in the whole training path. We are strengthening early childhood education to give every child a good start on the school path. It is particularly important that a model of three-step support is created for early childhood education, which is familiar with pre-school and comprehensive school, so that every child who needs support can receive it. Starting next autumn, 10,000 five-year-old children in different parts of Finland will be admitted to the two-year-old pre-school education experiment. These are important investments in the early years of learning. Increasing the compulsory education age to 18 years and free upper secondary education will enter into force next autumn at one age group. This is an historic reform which must be implemented carefully. It has been important for us Greens in the reform to ensure that, at the same time as the obligations to study are increased, support and guidance for young people are also invested. Study guidance is targeted especially at young people who are at risk of dropping out of their studies. Mr President! The opposition has rightly backed up the government's ambition for employment measures. All the stones need to be translated and proposals for improving employment examined in order to achieve sustainable employment for growth and jobs and livelihoods. The government has promised to return to these proposals. In particular, I am concerned about the employment situation of young people, which has been weakened by the interest rate. We must create hope for young people and ensure that every young person finds his or her place in employment. I hope that the local employment trials will also bring new solutions to this. Mr President! Just a few words about Parliament's Christmas gift money, which complements the actual budget for 21 years. We've got a lot of important things for the Greens. I particularly welcome the additional funding of the Museum of Natural Sciences, Creation, for EUR 600000. Without it, next year the museum would have had to stop its important social tasks. This additional money will enable us to find out in the course of next year how the national tasks of the Creation will also be secured in the longer term. Mr President! We will be working on the corona tracks for a long time, but at some point next year we will hopefully be living in the post-corona crisis. In order to continue the fair transition towards the first carbon-neutral welfare society in the world, we need to find ways to create sustainable growth without weakening prosperity. We must take sustainable development objectives as a guiding principle for all policies and ensure that everyone remains involved in the construction of an ecologically, socially and economically sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u151	Mr President! When you look at next year's budget in the form that the government has given it and the Parliament's Committee on Finance has now presented and listened to the opposition's criticism of it, the first observation is that, when the opposition strongly criticises excessive borrowing throughout the autumn and even a little in the spring, when you look at these alternative budgets, it is stated that, at the end of the day, there is a fairly similar understanding that, in the midst of this interest-rate crisis, it is the most important thing to try to revive the economy, to keep the economy up and, unfortunately, to demand debt-taking. This is what all the other countries are doing. When the representative of the Finns Party spoke here about the need to declare an economic emergency because of this budget, their alternative reality budget had a pro millennia of less debt-taking. So it seems that the difference between basic Finnish reality and the economic emergency is in the order of the pro millennia. Mr President! In particular, the Coalition Party has criticised the fact that no action is being taken on employment, no structural action is being taken and, on the same day, there has been a vote — and they have opposed — on one major structural measure and an employment measure, an extension of compulsory education. Today was an historic day, today was a great day, today was a happy day when this reform has now been adopted in this Parliament. And the group which criticises the lack of employment measures and the lack of structural measures voted against this proposal — a group that has said that no employment measures will be excluded. Yesterday, there was a debate on social reform. For decades, or for more than a decade, efforts have been made to reform the social economy. Now it's very close. What did the Coalition Party do? What did the Finns do? Here they strongly opposed the social welfare reform, which improves people's access to social and health services throughout Finland. So much for the criticism of not making structural reforms when no structural reforms seem to be successful. The structural reforms that have been called for here by the coalition and also by the alternative budget are cuts: cuts for the low-income, cuts for the unemployed in particular. The assembly will not get soft, people will take structural reforms into account. They want drastic, rigorous structural reforms, which are cuts. And it is not enough that the coalition in its alternative budget would only cut the unemployed — they would also cut the future pensioners by one billion. Mr President! There's one thing I've been wondering about in particular. Both Finns and the National Coalition Party have criticised the over-subsidisation of municipalities, over-compensation of municipalities. If you consider who is looking after the services of this welfare state, early childhood education, comprehensive school, secondary school, services for the elderly, sports facilities, libraries, things that directly affect our everyday life, they are taken care of by the municipality. And now, after all those years of criticism, it has been said that the municipalities have far too little money, that efforts are being made to support municipalities so that they can overcome this corona crisis so that they do not have to lay off, that they do not have to cut off services. Hopefully, people will also remember next spring when discussing the services of municipalities, the situation of municipalities, that both the Finns and the National Coalition Party have criticised the over-subsidisation of municipalities. Mr President! Some of the sectors most affected by the corona are culture and art, events, sports and sports. They need support, and they will need support next year as a result of these restrictive measures. Many small entrepreneurs, the self-employed, are in real trouble, not just the famous stars on the side of music, for example, but also those who have taken care of the road, making sure that everything happens. This is something to which we may have to return with additional budgets right at the beginning of next year. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that next year's budget, fortunately, has compensated for the fall in the profit margin for these sectors, but the big question will come next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u152	Ärade Herr Talman! Det nuvarande budgetförslaget, som finansutskottet har behandlat och lämnat sitt betankande om, är det första någons med det nya ekonsiska systemet för Ålands självstyrelse. Det oxär en historisk budget i det tailsends. Det är en del av den stora självstyrelselagsrevisionen där den ena stora delen nu är avklarad. I höst har riksdage nämligen behandlat klart höjningen av Ålands avräkningsgrund från 0.45 percent till 0.47 percent, vilket nu inkluderas i det aär budgetförslaget och finansutskottets betankande. Det ox ekonomiska systemet är viktigt för Åland och utvecklar Ålands självstyrelse samtidigt som höjningen av avräkningen ökar Ålands grundfinansiering. Ändringen är motiverad effectsom Ålands befolkning har vuxit i dubbelt så snabb takt som Finlands befolkning de Senaste 25åren. Det nya ekonomiska systemet innebär både mer öjligheter men samtidigt också mer risker för Åland, bland you provide eftersom det nya ekonomiska systemet är knuet till befolkningsutvecklingen. Av den anledningen var det helt avgörande att höja avräkningsnivån så att den motsvarade den historiska befolkningsutvecklingen som sketcht men som inte har återspeglats tidigare i avräkningen. Detta för att inte riskera att avräkningen skulle konna bli mindre än den var år 1995, med samma befolkning som då, då det tidigare systemet trädde i kraft. Irade the Talman! Det är frukten av ett långsiktigt arbete där väldigt många vart involverade. Jag vill tacka nuvarande regering liksom den förra regeringen och också nuvarande ricksdag och den förra riksdagen för allt samarbete i dessa frågor, där också herr talman har variantt mycket involverad och gjort en mycket viktig och avgörande insts, för det raus arbetet har inte komit av sig själv, det är en sak som vi från en åländsk sida har drivit länge. Jag lämnade en budgetmotion om saken år 2016, 2017, 2018. År 2019 behövdes en budgetmotion inte längre, effectsom regeringen då effecter långa förhandlingar och mycket politiskt arbete förbundit sig till att göra den rauta ändringen. Förslaget kom till riksdage och godkändes av riksdage innan liet 2019, men som ni vet kan Ålands självstyrelselag ändras bara i grundlagsenlig ordning med TVå tredjedelars majoritet i andra behandlingen. Den andra behandlingen var i den nuvarande riksdage. Processen har således variants beroende av ett brett samarbete och en stor förståelse. Irade the Talman! Åland genomever nu den värsta ekoniska krisen i modern tid. Finanskrisen för drygt 10år sedan var en lätt bris i Jämförelse med den ekonomska storm som coronakrisen har spat. Smittoläget på Åland är lugnt, vilket vi är glada för, men de ekonska effekterna är catastrophala eftersom krisen i synnerhet har slagit mot hjärtat i den åländska ekonom är sjöfart och tourism. Ålands ekonomiska situation är mycket oroande. Åland har normalt sett ingen arbetslöshet i practicen och arbetslösheten är mycket sallan ovanför 4 percent. Att nu ha en location med en arbetslöshet på nirka 10 percent är oroande effectsom arbetslösheten på Åland historiskt sett betytt utflytning. Vi oroar oss därför mycket för de långsiktiga effekterna och att Ålands befolkning kan börja minska som en consekvens av den arbetslöshet och ekonomiska chock som scapats av coronapandemin. Av den anledningen är det nu ännu viktigare n vanligt med en activ dialogue mellan regeringen och Ålands landskapsregering i denna exceptionella tid. De kommande åren kommenter nya processer och viktiga frågor för Åland och självstyrelsen, där det framgångsrika arbetet med att höja avräkningsgrunden kan fungera som ett bra exempel på det lagarbete som behövs för att komma framåt. Det är är som sagt en historianisk budget i riksdage för Åland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u153	Mr President, värderade talman! Nästa års statsbudget utgör circa 65 billion euro och den är budgeterad att ha ett underskott på nästan 12 billioner.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u154	Mr President! I have met a mother of three children who performs the same work in the restaurant industry, whose spouse is laid off. He had daily concerns about his family’s livelihood and the continuity of his work, and Christmas also brought anxiety to mind. I have met a transport worker who was laid off for almost six months and an exclusive entrepreneur whose customer numbers have decreased to less than half and still have not returned. These human stories are plentiful and, as we all know, we are living in a very exceptional time. We have been partly surprised by a global crisis that has required changes for everyone in their daily lives and to tolerate uncertainty. Against this background, it has been hard to listen today to the opposition's speeches, which, at the same time, criticise debt-taking and propose massive tax cuts and cuts for low incomes. The government’s revitalising economic policy has received broad support from experts. To the best of our ability, we have tried to support people beyond this crisis. The aim has been to safeguard people’s health and at the same time jobs. It can already be seen that Finland has successfully managed to cope with this crisis in the world scale. The disease has been reasonably contained, but at the same time the economy has taken fewer blows than in many other countries. This epidemic has been and will continue to be the best economic policy. This all creates hope for the future. This crisis will be overcome, and there will be light flashes, for example, thanks to the development of vaccines. I believe that once the crisis has been overcome, Finland will be seen as a more attractive alternative to new investments. In the past, Finland’s interests have been international stability and a highly educated workforce. During the interest-rate crisis, we have shown that, even in an exceptional situation, we are able to protect both people and, at the same time, our economy. Companies will certainly see this as our leverage, and this is an opportunity to further increase jobs in Finland in the future. This budget has focused, of course, on the management of this acute crisis, but at the same time reforms and investments are being made that will take Finland forward. In the world, capital is moving at an accelerating pace towards carbon-free solutions. Our strengths in international competition are also environmental and climate-friendly innovations, which at the same time support the survival of another global crisis, climate change. I think it is particularly important that education is also one of the priorities. We have just accepted, for example, the extension of compulsory education, which will increase our level of education and ensure that every young person can find employment. It is up to the government to strengthen employment, and we are working strongly towards this objective. We are currently developing a model for Nordic job search, offering support and help for employment instead of a stick. We will strengthen the use of pay subsidies and reduce early childhood education fees so that as many families as possible have the opportunity to do so. facilitating the take-up of work will also have positive effects on employment. Mr President! Dear Minister of Finance, this budget provides security now but also hope for the future. I believe that this budget will be the best way to overcome this crisis together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u155	Mr President! The Marin government sets great and lofty goals, which are enforced by force without listening to the experts and the field and without sufficient impact assessments. What matters to the government is what things look like, but let's see for ourselves. You will extend the compulsory education age even if it does not solve the real problem of completing comprehensive school for young people who do not really have the capacity to cope with the second level. This is one of the biggest educational reforms in our history, despite opposition to the field, you are pushing through in a hurry. Many teaching professionals have asked for a time-out — the requests have gone to deaf ears. Both the government and the opposition are certainly on the same page in investing in mental health. I therefore find it strange that there will be no money for a therapeutic guarantee. Investing in preventing and correcting mental health problems would also be an important employment measure. It would also help young people who are in difficulties at school to cope with further studies and working life. Mr President! The Government drives Finland into a carbon neutral in a really tight timetable, a timetable that is more tense than anywhere else in the world. The European Union's objectives are for 2050 and for China they are for 2060. We are therefore giving other countries a competitive advantage in this very challenging, difficult economic situation. The plans for reducing emissions from transport and electrification of motor vehicles are totally unrealistic at this stage. Our car fleet is one of the oldest in Europe. Jumping into the latest technology is no small thing. Finland is a country of long distances where a car is necessary for many people, and there is simply no money to buy expensive electric cars for citizens. Climate policy is also implemented by the government by speeding down the peat, which is quite a miscalculation. But you may not be familiar with the decisions and many direct and indirect effects associated with peat. In other words, the supply of peat and peat will be jeopardised, and the gap in energy will then have to be replaced by an external application. And above all, from this discussion of peat: We know that as many as 11 per cent of Finland's cultivated fields are peat-based and I think almost one third of the total area is so that we cannot escape the peat. But we could make good use of it, and I believe that one day, when we understand this whole thing, this turf will be for our country, it will not now be said that green gold, but brown gold. I believe that that day too will be seen in this Chamber. The Finnish people's policy on climate and energy is different. With our option, we will strengthen the Finnish industry and its competitiveness and improve the position of people with low and middle incomes. The measures proposed in our alternative budget are available to everyone. Even in this economic situation, you are raising development aid. You are aiming for development aid to reach 0.7% of GDP. It is an unrealistic goal in itself. Instead, we should strive for an ever greater proportion of that to actually get there and have these positive effects. We know — and this information has come from the public — that our development aid has been misused. And in this committee's proposal too, when I read it, it was clearly written that information is not available in sufficient detail. In other words, the committee also acknowledged that there is a great deal of room for improvement here. That is why, for example, in our alternative budget, we have reduced 500 million from it, because this should be targeted precisely at the right places, and unfortunately there is a problem here too. Well, maybe a few words about the municipalities. This has been mentioned many times, and Mr Arhinmäki also saw that we Finns are opposed. Now we know that the 3 billion is now coming to the municipalities, and we have talked about the overcompensation of 1 billion. However, it should be borne in mind that this sends the wrong signal to the municipalities, because it is nevertheless necessary to carry out these structural reforms. And now, when these coronamillions run out, what happens after that? Are the municipalities prepared to meet this challenge?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u158	Mr President! The 2021 budget is strongly stimulating. It was prepared in very different moods than would have been expected a year ago. However, in the midst of the crisis, the government has not given up its common values, but the government of sustainable development is also revitalizing in a sustainable way. We bear responsibility for the debt, the climate, and the people. This government will remain in the history books as a catalyst for a new era of climate action and as a builder of a carbon-neutral welfare state. In the budget debate, we managed to take genuinely effective and far-reaching decisions to combat climate change. The reorientation of subsidies for polluting industries, the increase in the taxation of peat and billion-dollar investments in climate action are only examples of the Government's future decisions. We are also on a steady road towards fossil-free traffic. Already in the spring, we made considerable investments in rail and light traffic in the supplementary budget. In the budget debate, employee benefits were finally reformed in the climate. However, according to experts, the decisions taken so far are not sufficient to halve transport emissions by 2030, so work to promote fair change will continue in this sector as well. Mr President! The Government believes that the best way to promote employment is by investing in knowledge and well-being. As we know, investing in early learning tends to compensate for differences in the family background of children. The Government wants to ensure that every child receives the support and adequate capacity for the course of education, and that is why we increase support and lower fees in early childhood education. It has been claimed here that the government would be recklessly distributing money or taking up debt without concern for tomorrow. It is not easy to accept a debt, but in this situation it is necessary. The government does it to keep cities and municipalities on their feet. Most of the budget deficit consists of the necessary costs of the interest rate, such as interest rate testing, protective equipment and support for municipalities and businesses. The Government's billion-class municipal package, which has also been criticised as irresponsible, combats, among other things, cuts in basic education and health care. It would be irresponsible not to support municipalities. The government is taking debt because we are concerned and responsible for a better tomorrow. Mr President! As long as the vaccine is available, the best employment and economic policy must be to control the corona virus. This is something that each of us can make a difference in his everyday life, for it is literally in our own hands to stop the spread of this epidemic. By following the instructions and recommendations given, we will ensure that hospitals operate during and after Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u159	Mr President! At the same time as combating the acute corona crisis, action must also be directed strongly towards the post-crisis economic challenges. At the same time, it is necessary to support people, businesses, municipalities and economic recovery and also to strengthen the conditions for sustainable growth and better employment in the coming years. This government is building a way out of the crisis by taking care of everyone in Finland and investing in knowledge and sustainable employment. Throughout the autumn, the opposition has criticised the government for managing the corona with loan money. However, the opposition's own alternative budgets were based on very questionable savings from the most vulnerable in our society, and the debt level in their options would hardly be reduced. The Coalition Party did of course come up with the idea that the poorest Finns could be cut off. [Sari Sarkomaa’s interlude] Mr President! We in the Committee on Budgets, like the government, consider it justified that, in 2021 too, we should continue to pursue a stimulating fiscal policy by supporting employment, production and economic activity. It is particularly important to prevent the long-term deterioration of the conditions for economic growth, as a wave of corporate bankruptcy and mass unemployment could lead to a long-term reduction in the production capacity of the economy. Municipalities will receive full state funding for new and expanding tasks. In addition, the costs directly related to the corona will be fully reimbursed to the municipalities by the State. The Government will reduce climate emissions and support economic development by reforming energy taxation and supporting industrial electrification. Finland’s sustainable growth programme promotes a fair transition towards a carbon-neutral welfare state. Although the framework includes flexibility, the adequacy of resources must be monitored and ensured that economic room for manoeuvre is not too limited and recovery is not hampered by too early adjustment, says the report of the Committee on Finance. Our committee also stresses that the development of gender-based budgeting requires improved access to and use of gender-based data, the development of methods and processes, the strengthening of knowledge and support for the work of management and decision-makers. We in the Committee on Finance also wanted to analyse the gender impact of the corona in terms of how we revived and supported the municipalities in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u160	Värderade Talman! I en tid där samhället förändras och det råder osäkerhet kring ekonomiset och global utveckling är det viktigt att skapa framtidstro. Det gör den bull regeringen. Nästa års budget innehåller en brad Arsenal akuta krisåtgärder men också satsningar på framtiden. Vi behöver ett stimulerande budgetpaket som hjälper oss ur coronakrisen men som aven ser öjligheterna i en tid effect coronan.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u161	Mr President! This speech is not a so-called pre-written budget speech, but I have followed the debate here and put together a number of points which I am now putting forward within the framework of the timetable, and I do not really bark at anyone here. First of all, I would like to say that in the previous speech, the subjects of south-west Finland and Turku were finely discussed, so I do not need to repeat them, and I fully agree with them. In its editorial today, the Helsingin Sanomat discussed the employment rate and the so-called employment measures, that is, this hot issue that we are so often discussing here. I would like to present you with a series of figures that I checked right there from the Findicator data source, which contains a very comprehensive range of economic and employment-related chapters in Finland. The employment rate was 70.0 per cent in October 2017, i.e. three years ago. After that year, in October 2018, it was 71.5 per cent. In October last year it was exactly 72 per cent, and at present it is 71.5 per cent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u164	Mr President! Despite the interest epidemic, there are positive news. Corona vaccine significantly improves the outlook. Growth can be achieved if we dare to renew, but growth does not happen on its own. Unfortunately, the government's draft budget for next year is unambitious and will undermine the future of the welfare society. With the Government's line, we are facing a potentially happy 20th century, not a sparkly and lost decade. After all, growth will only occur if we have companies in our country that have the ability and the desire to invest and employ. It is quite clear that recovery is needed, it has been said by the opposition in a number of speeches, but at the same time it must be possible to solve the challenge of over-indebtedness of public finances, and the government has found no solutions to this. The Coalition Party, on the other hand, sets out in its option the means of lower debt combined with new jobs and tax reductions. People and businesses now need hope for better. What do you want me to do? First of all, we need to add a tax recovery to the expenditure recovery — this has been recommended by Vipriälä and I would advise him to follow. The increased household allowance would revitalise service sectors, a reduction in the number of super-households living at home for seniors, a reduction in VAT for restaurants, along with the tourism sector. Tax reductions would give households more purchasing power so that people could have more opportunities, more money and more pensions. It is a very good way to revive — it is done in Sweden and in many European countries. And I would like you to read the instructions and views of the Bank of Finland, for example. Indeed, the Bank of Finland has stated that the impact of the tax recovery will last much longer than the expenditure recovery. Why can't the government do that? Several international evaluators and researchers have found that Finland's competitiveness is undermined by high labour taxation. And what harm have Finnish employees and pensioners done that they have to pay many percentage points more taxes? And this is not about the well-earned people that the left always talks about, but about ordinary Finnish workers. If the job doesn't pay off, we have nothing. It will not help Mr Lindén’s number-spinning, as the interest rate has not changed the fact that the Finnish welfare society is based on work and enterprise and not on payment of subsidies. They're needed, but they don't go very far. And when you look at the calculations of the Taxpayers' Confederation, the government's proposal tightens the taxation of employees and also pensioners, and this line of tax blackmail is a poison to the economy and employment. So we should tax less what we want more, that is, work. The alternative budget of the Coalition Party includes a tax recovery of EUR 1 billion, and the average wage and salary earners would have an increase of EUR 500 in hand, as well as the entrepreneur. At the same time, we would also reduce the tax burden on pensioners. The fact is that we cannot lift ourselves out of the hair: only public spending on a loan by inflating Finland will not be saved. We need private activity, and that also requires the purchasing power of our citizens. Secondly, the policy of the government is cold and hard. How many young children is the mother or father unemployed? How many young people worry about not getting a job? And you are postponing action not only for the coming reign, as you are postponing many problems, but for many periods of government. I think this is a cold and hard policy. The Coalition Party has put forward measures to create the conditions for 120,000 new employees. If they don't all work for you, I wish someone did. Local settlement has not progressed, even though the center speaks for it. In this debate, the left-wing alliance has rejected almost all means, such as a therapeutic guarantee. Why can't I do that? It would bring about 3,500 people away from social security to work, but that's not going to happen to you either. You even block the debate on the citizens' initiative in Parliament, and I think it is quite a dent of democracy. Mr President! Thirdly, the government has not been able to come up with a credible plan for real economic recovery, and it is ugly living on children. Even if debt is taken, at the same time there should be a plan for how to pay the debt. This is also what Mrs Greenälä said in the report and said that, if this is not the case, then economic policy will lose credibility. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u165	Mr President! The state budget proposal for the coming year is, admittedly, a budget for a very difficult time. Korona has branded the entire world economy and the lives of all people for the past year very hard. It is good, however, that the light is at the end of the tunnel, and it is not the train coming up, but the vaccines coming out of it that can somehow control this detestable disease. Of course it will take another year or two before it is fully controlled with vaccines, but it is important that this trend is the right one. The state has taken a good responsibility in ensuring that the continuous functioning of municipalities has been safeguarded, because the services of people are provided in municipalities. Strengthening and maintaining its organization is wisdom, because health care must play, schools must act and other service activities, care must be taken of the elderly and care must be taken of the weaker — it is the first requirement of a civilised society. Companies have been supported for more than a difficult time with different financial instruments, each one of which, hopefully, has found its way. It is clear that the lost turnover has not been replaced, but it is important to note that the fixed costs have been reduced by a small amount by the State, and it is important because these companies have to be kept over this difficult period of time, so as standing up, and the government must ensure that when growth begins they can then continue their normal lives and bring added value to this society. Because private companies have a future for us. The increase in public administration is unacceptable because it will lead to an enormous tax burden and a drop in productivity, but we have enormous potential within our own borders to create this new growth in the national economy. I am extremely sad about one thing, and that is the situation of the forest industry in Finland at the moment. In my opinion, this very wrong increase in the energy tax on peat will create a very difficult situation for energy production and the forest industry. At the moment, Mr President, we have a situation where we will have to stop raising peat from this country altogether in the next few years, and it will lead to a shock, among other things — a few examples that illustrate it well: In energy production, prices will go sky high. Power plants are sold abroad, which will affect the price of heat and the price of living. Here in the next budget, we will be angry at how much, how many more billion we will put into housing subsidies, income support. Is there anything else we want? And then it will lead to more and more foreign energy taking over the market. It's doing it all the time. The Russian application has taken the whole of Eastern Finland up to Oulu. Oulu is not part of Eastern Finland, but Vartius station is not very far away to drive a pick-up to Oulu. The collection of domestic energy chips is virtually over. No one will receive any more income today, when the cost of harvesting domestic wood chips from the forest to the roadside is higher than the price of wood chips from Russia on the Finnish side. When imported across the border, a Russian application is cheaper than a domestic energy tree, which is why we have completely lost its market, and that is why companies buy this after our false tax ruling directly stamps that go into combustion, even though the government programme says that valuable wood, material wood, fiber and logs, must not be burned. That is what we are doing today and very much, and the pace is accelerating. Mr President! What is worst about this, which I fear is 25 years of working as a forest professional, is that it is now, Mr President, that investment in the forest industry is slowly going abroad and that existing factories in Finland are being closed. How many Finnish workers become unemployed after this wrong decision? We do not know that yet, but remember, ladies and gentlemen, this is not something to play with. I'm making a show about how to do this. We can do so by making an exception to the Security of Supply Act that we have the possibility to use it for about 20 million motors of peat for a year — the increase is 40 million, i.e. doubles of it — and part of it is used as energy peat, as a mixture fuel with domestic wood chips, which gives us an efficient mixture and keeps the price cheap. And the best part is that everything else works: greenhouse peat, activated carbon peat, farm peat, broiler farms, pig farms and so on. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that Finland is the world's leading country in the export of growing peat, for example. So we have growth and we have a market, but what are we missing? The national desire to do good for this country. This climate fervor and climate hunger, as I have called it, is becoming too expensive for this nation. If we run out of industry, Mr President, it will go a long way with it, and no one will be able to repair the damage afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u166	Mr President! Next year's budget will have to solve a lot of crises at the same time. Climate change, the corona pandemic and the fall in the economy apply to everyone worldwide. The need for economic recovery and structural reforms is common throughout Europe. Therefore, we should also make effective use of the support provided by the ECB's revitalising monetary policy and the EU's comprehensive stimulus package. The Committee considers it important that efforts to improve employment were not abandoned due to the interest rate crisis, since the impact of the crisis on public finances will further increase the importance of the employment objective. Existing jobs must be maintained, but at the same time action must be taken to create new jobs. The proposal includes at least the following measures to promote employment: the Nordic job search model, the reduction of early childhood education fees, the increase in compulsory education age, the reform of the linear model of part-time workable people and adult education, and also municipal trials are progressing. In addition to these, new measures are needed to support the employment of older people, but equally to assist the employment of young people and people with foreign background. The time of interest has made it difficult for young people to enter the labour market. It has been very difficult to get a first job and a summer job. Mr President! It is not easy to accept a debt, but in this situation it is necessary. We'll take care of the debt. However, most of the government budget deficit consists of interest payments, such as interest payments and support for municipalities, businesses and the unemployed. These will prevent further growth of the care debt, maintain the quality of public services and safeguard jobs in companies. At the same time, employment should also be safeguarded, for example for cultural and event producers. Sectoral differences are also important, and solutions such as tourism, corona, but also sustainable for nature and climate should be found soon. The budget for 1920-21 is characterised by climate action. Their time is now at the latest. Next year's budget will include important and far-reaching decisions to combat climate change, such as an increase in the taxation of heating fuels, the start of the dismantling of industrial energy taxes, the abolition of emissions trading competition and the support for a stronger electrification of the industry to be built up. The employment benefits of transport are also updated in climate time. With these decisions, among other things, the government shows that it is able to take the necessary decisions to build a sustainable future. The funding of nature conservation will also be EUR 100 million higher in the coming year than at the beginning of the Government term. When deciding on the divisional reserve of the Committee on Finance, it was also the maintenance of the hiking infrastructure that became more important during the period of the corona. In its report, the committee raises concerns about the prevention of mental disorders and access to services. According to the OECD report, the direct and indirect costs of mental health in Finland are among the highest in the OECD countries, as much as 5.3 per cent of GDP and around EUR 11 billion per year, and the interest rate has further increased this need for assistance. Action is needed. Mr President! The Government wants to invest in the future by investing heavily in young people. We will carry out a historic reform and extend compulsory education to 18 years of age. At the same time, we are making significant efforts to strengthen both early childhood education and the quality of basic education. I also welcome the two-year experiment in preschool education. We are also increasing the number of places for early childhood education teachers to start, as there is a great shortage of factors. Strengthening knowledge is the best and most responsible employment policy we can do. In dealing with divisional resources, competence is also taken into account, among other things, by ensuring the continuity of the work of the Museum of Natural Sciences, by investing in teacher training, by strengthening global and peace and equality education. The Government's budget proposal also includes important value choices, such as the increase in the development budget and the increase in the number of quota refugees. The aim is to ensure the continuity of important work in the third sector by fully compensating for the fall in betting income. Many organisations and volunteers also received an increase in the committee's allocation reserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u167	Mr President! As a result of interest measures, the central government is in debt of around EUR 30 billion. There has certainly been a real need for additional money for public and private finances, but it could have been more effective in many places. The means chosen to support businesses have not been the best for employment, I am sure the owners will be pleased. With a few exceptions, the support policy has not met low-income Finns and, for example, those who worked hard in the care sector during the year of the interest rate. The least beneficial use of money is represented by participation in the EU Recovery Package. Minister of Finance Vanhanen said that the time for tightening fiscal policy would begin in 2022. In a year's time, therefore, Parliament would decide on the adjustment measures. These are indicative of the cuts in unemployment security that have been flashed in the name of the employment rate target, which are apparently about to be completed by the end of the additional days, i.e. the pension pipeline. After the negotiations on the Government Programme, when the active model of unemployment security was welcomed, it was anticipated that the abolition of the pension pipeline would constitute the compensation measures included in the programme in the Government's choice of means. On the whole, the employment rate will not rise by cutting the pension pipeline. If older people were allowed to keep their jobs more often, they would face redundancies in younger age groups. The basic reason for the cut is the desire of employers to reduce their responsibility for social security. At the same time, the deterioration of unemployment security will be paved the way. President! Under no circumstances should the pipe be removed. The impact of cutting the pension pipeline on central government finances is negligible directly and also through the expected impact on employment rates. Central government finances could easily be balanced by shifting the acquisition of EUR 10 billion by new multi-functional fighters. The Left Alliance is of the opinion that the fighter project should be postponed and re-evaluated. According to a study carried out by the Foundation for the Development of the Municipal Sector, 76 per cent of Finns are in the same position and would be prepared to postpone the acquisition of fighters in order to balance the central government finances. The number of hours accumulated by the Air Force Hornets is significantly lower than the number of aircraft that can be flown and which the manufacturer promises. So we're switching faster than we need to. In fact, the lifetime of the Hornets can be extended over several years. President! The order mandate of EUR 10 billion is not limited to Article 85 of the Constitution in terms of amount and purpose in this budget. require, but the order authorisation may be exceeded by means of cost changes resulting from the contract. It is unclear what the order authority actually includes and what it does not. Life-cycle costs, which even multiply the cost of procurement, have not been established. These essential elements seriously undermine Parliament's budgetary authority. According to constitutional experts, the upper limit for procurement in euro must be in the budget. Now, however, Parliament does not know what it decides, but the spike is practically open. The National Audit Office has criticised the uncertainty and lack of transparency about the costs of the fighter project. However, in its report, the Committee on Finance is strikingly ignoring the critical remarks made by VTV. Of course, the Constitutional Committee would have had to ask for an assessment of the constitutionality of the order mandate for fighters. President! I have tabled an amendment to the budget on the acquisition of the fighter fleet, in which I propose that Parliament removes from next year's budget the proposed chartering mandate for the fighter fleet, postpones the acquisition and re-evaluates the schedule and extent of the replacement of Hornets' performance, taking into account the overall needs of defence capacity development and the state of the state budget. With this proposal, if it were to be approved, Parliament would take back its rightful power, which it is de facto giving up for the benefit of the generals, as regards the fighters, to decide on state resources. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u168	Mr President! Next year's budget has two key red threads: sustainable development and the survival of the corona. The most important thing about the objectives of the near future is to put an end to the epidemic and to repair the damage it causes to society. At the same time, however, we must look to the future, where strengthening sustainable development and green growth are of paramount importance. The Agenda for Sustainable Development will only be implemented through policy coherence, and it is therefore good that this issue will also be strongly reflected in next year's budget. It is important to bear in mind that sustainable development means economic, ecological, social and cultural sustainability. The green transition is the biggest investment of all time. However, investing in sustainable solutions is also a great opportunity. For Finland, transition means sustainable, job-creating growth and everyday well-being, while supporting the operating conditions and competitiveness of Finnish companies. Therefore, next year's budget will have a number of instruments to strengthen the competitiveness and skills of companies producing environmental technologies and to support the development of new technologies, as well as social innovations that contribute to sustainable, job-creating growth and everyday well-being. In these cases, Finland has a competitive edge on the world market. Mr President! The interest epidemic and the economic situation also challenge us to reform. The Government invests heavily in research and product development and creates stronger incentives for cooperation between universities and companies. Environmental and climate-friendly products and innovations are our asset for the future in international competition. The fight against climate change and industry need not be enemies of each other. The funding provided by the EU Recovery Package will also support this objective. In the future, Finland will do best by investing in raising the level of competence at all levels of education. At the same time, learning gaps need to be narrowed and educational equality increased. The model of continuous learning from early childhood education to further education and free education is the basis for Finland’s competitiveness and well-being. The education of any young person must not be caught for money, and that is why the extension of compulsory education, if anything, will support sustainable development. President! In spring, the interest rate was a new situation in society, and therefore it was not always the right thing to do. Security took precedence over humanity. In many of its reports, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that the Emergency Act must not mean the suspension or termination of services in the interests of certainty. Discontinuation of visits to the community home by relatives, rehabilitation workers or interpreters, for example, even led to inhumane situations. Especially those with memory disorders and disabilities, family carers and some of the children and young people who were in distance learning, especially those who need special support for their learning, were put in the role of the sufferer. This must not happen again, and security and humanity and human rights must be better balanced as the epidemic continues. Municipalities now have a great responsibility that the money allocated to the municipalities for the care debt will be spent exactly where it is intended, and that children and young people who have fallen off the normal learning path or otherwise lost their way will be found and helped back to normal everyday life during a long distance education period. The recent reports of child and adolescent nausea have become so serious that resources must now be used to remedy this. Next year's budget will give the municipalities a good chance. Mr President! Finland has long neglected the willingness and ability of people capable of part-time work to participate in the building of society. Now the government has taken this issue seriously and has taken a number of measures to remedy it. Resources for TE Offices have also been added to next year's budget, and this is really important so that individual guidance and support can be implemented there for jobseekers. Attention also needs to be paid to the skills of the employees of the TE Offices, because people with disabilities, for example, are currently not sufficiently guided on the path to employment, i.e. the specific characteristics of disability are not identified. It must also be borne in mind that not all people with disabilities are part-time capable of working if reasonable adjustments have been made properly. Employers also need guidance in these matters, and skills in TE Centres are also needed to guide these activities. There is now an opportunity to promote the employment of those who are able to work part-time and people with disabilities. I support all these measures because: Finland needs everyone's input. Finally, Mr President, there is a great deal of investment in research and its use in the development of society in the budget. One criticism, however, is that the success of the Sote reform requires the use of the information studied. The Nursing Research Foundation is doing an excellent job here, as well as Duodecim on the Medical side in the form of Healthy Care Recommendations. I can't help but wonder how the funding of the Nursing Research Foundation is dragging on so much. Funding of current treatment recommendations, even though these bodies are doing equally important work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u169	Mr President! The central failure of the government budget is the lack of employment measures. There is not even any prospect that more Finns will be able to work with these measures. Action to improve employment and the fact that we are actually doing employment measures is a prerequisite for the sustainable development of Finnish well-being and for us to be able to provide important services — free of charge education, high-quality social services and so on — also for Finns in the coming decades. This also requires a view in this difficult economic situation, which is chastised by the interest rate. It is important for the assembly that employees, pensioners and entrepreneurs have more euros left in their own hands. This is also reflected in our alternative budget. Our path of hope lowers taxes and improves household reduction. For the elderly, a super-household allowance would be created, which also specifically takes into account low-income seniors who would receive support for e.g. home-order care services, even if there were no taxes to be deducted. Mr President! Work is the best social security. There's a lot of families in need right now when there's no work to do. That is why we in the assembly would take steps to get 120,000 Finns to work. This is the key difference between the government budget and the government option where employment measures are lacking. Without employment measures, our future well-being will not be built in a sustainable and economically responsible way. In other words, unfortunately, the government is now lacking in employment measures, and hopefully they will still be seen in the future, because without them we will be eating from the table of future generations, living permanently in debt. Now we need a vision for the future, and that is what the alternative budget for the Coalition Party offers the path of Hope, which creates 120,000 new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u170	Mr President! The global pandemic has made the coming year extremely exceptional. The pandemic will have a wide range of economic impacts in both the short and the long term. This is the case despite the fact that we are likely to experience a fairly rapid economic expansion after the widespread use of the vaccine. This has been predicted in economic forecasts and is even more evident in similar situations in economic history. Mr President! In this situation, a revitalising budget is needed, and that has also been achieved. In the event of an acute crisis, debt-taking is a necessary evil, as alternatives, i.e. drastic cuts or tax evasion, would only stifle the economy. The most important thing is to support the maintenance of jobs. It also includes supporting export efforts and investment. Mr President! The Koronavirus has significantly weakened the financial situation of municipalities as the pandemic has reduced the tax revenues of municipalities. Many municipalities were already in major financial difficulties before the pandemic. The central government will also support local government finances in 2021 with an extra billion-dollar support package. There will be a one-off EUR 300 million increase in central government transfers to basic services. In addition, the State will continue to waive its share of corporate tax in favour of municipalities by more than 12.1 percentage points next year. However, this includes a permanent increase in the share of municipal corporation tax by 2 percentage points in order to compensate municipalities for the reduction in early childhood education contributions. The corporation tax is a matter of income tax for limited companies and cooperatives, the total impact of which, taking into account the transfer of the share of shares, is EUR 557 million in municipal income in 2021. The increase in the municipal share of corporation tax is most beneficial to urban municipalities, where large community-based enterprises are largely concentrated. The increase in central government shares in basic services treats municipalities more equitably. Mr President! In taxation, the government has made many good solutions to support industry and entrepreneurship. The industrial electricity tax will be reduced to the EU minis by a one-off rate, i.e. less than one-tenth of the present. Now the tax is EUR 7 per megawatt hour, and from the beginning of next year half the euro. The EU minimum also applies to greenhouse production and, through return, to agriculture. Companies are encouraged by further tax reductions to strengthen research and product development cooperation with universities and research institutes. The tax on human resources will be reformed, i.e. Lex Sipilä will be implemented. This enables personnel to be committed to growth companies and other non-listed limited companies and strengthens Finnish ownership. Small businesses and start-ups will be facilitated by raising the VAT threshold from EUR 10000 to EUR 15000 from the beginning of next year. Industrial emissions trading compensation will be reformed to promote industrial electrification at the start of the new trading period. Aid to industry will therefore remain even if the name changes. Since the beginning of this year, we have had double depreciation of movable fixed assets, i.e. in practice machinery, equipment and equipment, in industry, agriculture and other businesses, and they will continue until the end of 2023. Within 4 years, they will allow the right to deduct almost 100% of the investment in machinery, equipment and equipment. It is also important that it has been decided to maintain the tax on dividends for non-listed limited companies. It was already agreed in the government negotiations. In the same way, entrepreneurship reduction has already been secured during government negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u171	Mr President! In the debate in the Chamber, Mr Junnila, who spoke in the Group of the Finns Party, referred to pensions and also referred to the Social Democrats, saying that the Social Democrats, in this budget proposal, are cursing pensioners in contrast to the basic Finns who have protested against pensions. Mr President! From the beginning of this protest by the Finns of Peru, I will read a few sentences. So the True Finns write: “Animal poverty is a serious problem. The number of pensioners will increase further and nominal contributions alone will not suffice’. They also say that it is unreasonable for pensioners who have built this country to feel unwell and continue to be among the lowest incomes in Finland. Mr President! These are the words with which their protest begins, I can fully agree — I agree. I would have added that we have a problem that the older people are concerned with pensioners, the poorer they are — 7% of pensioners aged 65 are under the poverty line, 15% of those over 75 are already under the poverty line, and almost 30% of those over the age of 85 are already living under the poverty line, that is to say, the phenomenon referred to here is genuine. However, I would now like to see what our government, the current government, has done with regard to pensioners and what the government in which the Finns have been involved did with regard to pensioners, that we see this context first historically and then in relation to this day. Here, too, is the suggestion that the Finns of Peru are making. First of all, the only government in which the Finns have been involved, i.e. The first sentence of the Sipilä Government’s Government Programme was: “Our country’sweakness number is the ageing of the population that is challenging the Finnish economy and competitiveness. “ So this is the position of the Finns. The programme of this current government starts from another angle: no elderly person should be afraid of aging, says the Rinteen-Marin Government Programme. What about concrete measures? What did the Sipilä government offer to pensioners when they were in government responsibility? The increase in service charges, the reduction in the reimbursement of medical benefits, the reduction in travel allowances for patients and rehabilitation workers, the reduction in the staffing of old-age services, the weakening of the old-age service plans, the freezing of the national pension index, the reduction in the pension income reduction, the reduction in the price index for social benefits, the reduction in the housing allowance for pensioners, pensions were not subject to a reduction in earnings, and if the social contract, i.e. the Kiki agreement, had not been reached, the employment pension indices would have been halved. This was the government program that the Finns of Peru were pursuing when they were in charge of the government. What did the Rinte government do and the Marin government do on their show? In fact, this is the first government in 25 years that genuinely tackles the problem referred to by the True Finns, namely, pensioner poverty. A cross-administrative age programme will be drawn up; around-the-clock care will become a care measure, as we know; home care will be invested; regular welfare checks will be carried out, i.e. a senior counselling centre will be created; a care guarantee system will be established, i.e. access to care within a week; the office of the Ombudsman for old age care, and so on. These are the reform programmes that we are currently going through. And here, too, an increase has been made in these national pensions and guaranteed pensions, which the Finns of Peru consider to be nominal, but it helped probably 300,000 of the lowest-income pensioners — these increases that came this year at the turn of the year. The Government Programme also refers to this tripartite statement that the aim is to introduce reforms into the earnings-related pension system itself. The Finns Party will then propose the dismantling of this folded index and offer a proposal for a mid-term index of 50-50% by Mrs Elomaa, but only for pensions of less than EUR 1400. They say that restoring this mid-term index would be too expensive if it were for everyone. The figures are speaking: the mid-term index costs EUR 120 million per year and, if taken ten years forward, EUR 700 million. We have an annual increase in pension funds of EUR 8 billion, which means that under no circumstances would the system be questionable. And I would like to remind you, Mr President, that when a dozen Members of Parliament have taken a bill to abolish this folded index by means of a mid-term index, with two thirds of euro increases and one third of them as percentage increases, none of the Finns of Peru came to sign this bill. So in that regard: yes, the words are beautiful in this protest that the Finns of Peru — the actions do not speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u172	Mr President! Let's see if the microphone stays on all the time. In my earlier speech in the debate, I tried to answer Mr Mäkis before this little commie happened with the microphone. In a group speech by the SDP, Mr Mäkinen said that it is now important to look ahead and change the short lights of the car, to put it in a car term, so that I said to him that it would be better for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, in this old government Datsun, first of all, to turn on the machine and turn on the lights, because that is the only way, Mr President, that even before the interest-rate crisis, this left-wing government has made the conscious choice of increasing public spending, raising public debt and, at the same time, all these measures which would generate more revenue, above all, growth and especially employment, have been postponed. Mr. Speaker! Next spring it will be two years after the work of this government, and with regard to employment policy, the government is still at its very beginnings, that is what we can say. In view of all the measures that the government has taken, we are only a few thousand in favour, and of course it cannot be considered ambitious, let alone responsible. Secondly, Mr President, on this government's economic policy: I also do not think it is very ambitious that the government is currently seeking to balance the ratio of public debt to GDP by the end of this decade. In other words, the debt ratio would continue and only seek this levelling off of the debt ratio. And still with regard to the government's employment measures, the aim is that these measures to obtain 80,000 people — who will not in themselves suffice in any way to keep the services of the current welfare society — will then have an effect at 29 levels, not during the next government, but only during the next government. “It’s quite confusing how far you want to kick this ball. Mr President! In this respect, I would like to propose that Parliament approve the amendments and the motions for statements in response to protest 2, and at the same time present the motion of censure to the Government on its economic and employment policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u173	Mr President! First of all, I would like to highlight the criticism of the coalition for the funding of municipalities. I am now asking, with Mr Sankelo and Mr Marttine here, whether there are not quite a few of us, however, involved in the administration of local elected representatives. There the wisdom is, how the money is spent — it is not what is granted, but how it is used, and decision-making takes place there. I find this criticism of the government extremely disconcerting at the moment. But as has been said here before, all the leading economic experts have now spoken out in favour of a revitalising economic policy. This is certainly not the time for cutting lists, and this is a principle that the government has wisely followed. Budgetary policy must be geared to the economic cycle and this line has been supported by all the leading experts in our country. Consumers' purchasing power will rise again next year through government decisions, including a reduction in early childhood education fees. This will also have a significant impact on employment when payments are reduced. It makes it possible to take the job better. And income tax reductions are made in line with the rise in earnings. The economy and health go hand in hand, and the management of the epidemic is the best possible economic policy. Without decisive action against the virus, we would continue to drift into a spiral of uncertainty and new restrictions. Mr President! Determined action will mitigate the consequences of the crisis and contribute to the recovery of the economy. By investing in the transport network, we repair the infrastructure repair debt. It has a strong employment impact on construction, i.e. when the transport network is being repaired, it also has an employment impact and it also mobilises private investment. There are also good examples of this in previous years. Housing construction not only creates new work but also reduces the upward pressure on rents and promotes economic dynamism by supporting labour mobility. The opposition, under the leadership of the Coalition Party, has criticised the debt-taking process, but at the same time it is proposing billions of tax cuts and offering wage and salary earners a reduction in working conditions and a weakening of the negotiating position. Here, at some point, a representative took the floor to say that EUR 500 would come more into the hands of employees, but he did not say what time it would take. It's probably a year, but if we start counting, how much will it be for a month, and then we take the taxes off, what kind of services do you get for that money? Not much, not much health services or anything, that is quite clear. In other words, the coalition would not have invested in health, employment or services. So this is what the Coalition Party thinks is responsible policy? True Finns still do not have a choice of their own in economic policy. The party is a Labour Party, but at the same time stands ready to sign the weakening of the labour force of the coalition and the tax cuts favouring the well-earned. Local agreement has been raised here in a great many speeches, and we know what local agreement can mean at its worst. At the beginning of its term, the government raised the lowest number of pensions, and unemployment benefits have been improved by hundreds of millions. A fair line will continue next year when index increases and tax reductions are made for low-income taxpayers. Government action has reduced income differentials and strengthened the position of the lowest-incomed. This is not only a question of justice, but also a wise economic policy. The Ministry of Finance and many research institutes have stressed that economic recovery is driven by domestic demand, and there is a very strong basis here. Mr President! The extension of compulsory education to secondary level is the most important educational policy action for decades. The reform strengthens the basis of our skills, the position of young people in the labour market and combats exclusion, and in the long run it has also been estimated that it will at least repay itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u174	Mr President! The government budget does not raise Finland from the swamp, but threatens to sink our economy deeper and deeper. Making spending savings on socially less relevant targets seems to run into an insurmountable wall of red - green ideology. At the same time, structural reforms that are essential for the future of our country have been forgotten. In other words, the Government's draft budget is based on a focus on isolated issues with no reason for the idea, and at the same time closes the eyes to the social challenges that are key to the future. The government is able to sink so much money into its projects that there will be enough violins to pay for future generations for a long time to come. Yes, it is understandable in this financial pit of corona discipline that debt is increasing. However, the Marin government seems to be taking full advantage of the situation and spending debt money on projects of its own in a very generous way, even though savings should be sought more actively and limited euros invested as effectively as possible and productively as possible. The deficit in the past year amounts to EUR 20 billion. In recent years, moderate government debt will take a terrible leap in the next few years. The outlook is not improved at all by the ageing population and the deteriorating employment situation. These facts should be taken into account when building a sustainable budget, but the government does what it does. There is plenty of flexibility for the government to increase its sovereign debt, but once domestic industry and the economy and employment are at stake, flexibility disappears. Environmental policy is an example of this. Targets in the carbon neutrality rally have taken the shot. It seems that the government wants Finland to be in the finish line at the time when other countries are still setting up on the starting racks, no matter what the cost, and that is what it costs. Finland's competitiveness is deteriorating, and the closure news of major industrial plants has already been read on several occasions during this reign. The disappearance of jobs is an extremely serious matter, and the Prime Minister's tweets about corporate responsibility do little to help this. It's the responsibility of the government. The government must make policies to keep companies and jobs in Finland. For example, shutting down peat and overtaxing tend to destroy jobs and lose tax revenue. Do you think in that government that you can start to grow bananas in Ostrobothnia when the business that revolves around the peat disappears? What, then, of vital importance to animal welfare? — Green. The budgetary option of the Finns-based is based on the fact that economic growth is built by creating good conditions for working and entrepreneurship. We believe that this will enable us to build well-being in a sustainable way. Unfortunately, the government has chosen a different path. Concrete examples of irresponsible use of tax resources are the substantial increase in inefficient development aid, the capitalisation of the climate fund and the extension of compulsory education, which will not solve existing problems. Then fuel taxes will be raised and the daily lives of ordinary Finns will be made more expensive and the price tag for commuting will be increased. The price of housing continues to rise as a result of the government's tax policies, even though Finland already has a grossly expensive living standard. A low-income pensioner living in an oil-heated old detached house is expected to have a cold ride in winter freezers also due to heating costs. True, the government has remembered to make it difficult to reduce the household allowance for renovations and other household chores. Mr President! At the same time as the government's economic solution is despoiling people's lives, it is committed to distributing billions of euros of Finnish money through Brussels to Southern Europe through the EU Recovery Fund. There will be more than 3 billion net direct losses, and Finland's financial responsibilities will increase in this game to more than 10 billion. We can't afford to do this, because the problems on the home front are going to blow up. Finland itself urgently needs recovery and job saving. Yes, the government there should stand up for our country better on the EU tables and achieve better negotiating results. The representative, Mr Junnila, tabled a motion of censure on the government. I'm in favour of that. And then a few words about the folded index. That's where the SDP was as an architect. At least we Finns are proposing a mid-term index.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u175	Congressman Sankelo. The debate has already taken place on this subject today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u176	Mr President! Firstly, I support Mr Marttinen's proposals. Korona, corona. That is what this year has been about, but behind it the government cannot act and its words can go indefinitely. There'll be a regular workday and Monday. Our country is now living in debt. Mr Marttinen compared the situation with the use of the taxpayer's credit card in a group statement, and that is what this is all about. The card for a reckless user has to be operated on because it is now used with sorrow — there seems to be no concern about shortening the credit or exceeding the credit limit. Many government promises will be redeemed in next year's budget with debt money. The question is whether the way in which the government operates is consistent with the public's perception of good peasant finances. Mr President! The Coalition Party is concerned about debt repayment and the future of our welfare state, the future of our children and grandchildren. We understand that some of the additional costs associated with the pandemic are necessary and also have an impact in support of economic development, that is clear. At the same time, however, the Coalition Party proposes sustainable measures for the management of that debt to be taken and for the protection of the welfare state. That's not what the government does. The medicine of the Coalition Party is 120,000 new jobs in this country. No rival party in this country can do this. More jobs, less taxes, less debt — it is summarised as an alternative budget for the Coalition. The Coalition Party's path emphasises household allowance and the income limits of student support and agrees to work locally with trust in employees and employers. You can read the rest of the power measures on the website. They fit well in this exceptional period. The Coalition Party trusts in the diligence of the Finns and that with our work we will also safeguard the welfare state for posterity. Similarly, Finns must trust that there is work, that the foundation of our country is sustainable and that the future is bright. Let's not go fooling around with jobs out of Finland. The coalition is a credible, patriotic and forward-looking alternative to government image policy. Mr President! Prime Minister Marin has effectively ignored any serious debate on the future of the welfare state and the debt burden he has created for our children. I raise the hat on the ability to avoid even the strict questions — it has clearly been practiced — but I am also sure that the people will not be satisfied with the mere matriarch of mantros over the longer term. After the virus has been defeated, our economy is even worse off than before, and the question is how to get Finland to rise, what the government has done about it. This budget under discussion and government policy are the basis for the coming decades. Unfortunately, that base is soft and is built solely on loan money and goodwill. On their own, an independent prosperous state does not flourish. Future governments face a major task. In a group statement, Mr Marttinen gave the government until the middle of spring time to find a new position. Unfortunately, as a professional in the field of education, I now have to put a reduction in behaviour on the government Christmas certificate for employment measures for the four and the consular chief to one arrogant minister. A year has therefore been waiting for employment measures and nervous coughing has taken place. Government, give the Finnish people a hard package for once for Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u177	The debate has taken place today, Mr Al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u178	Mr President! We are moving towards 2021 with cautious expectations. The first corona vaccines are distributed around the world, and hopefully it will soon be possible to start vaccinations in Finland too. The light is beginning to appear at the end of this dark and dark tunnel. At the same time, however, we must be aware that despite the vaccine it will take a long time for our society to return to normal life. The crisis is by no means over or going downhill. In addition to the acute effects, the crisis will also have other consequences, the effects of which will be far into the future. Mr President! The interest crisis has caused huge losses around the world, and Finland has not escaped any difficulties either. Interest is above all a health crisis, but the measures taken to curb the pandemic have inevitably affected everything: people's livelihoods, jobs, studies, mental health and well-being. The restrictive measures still need to be continued, and it is clear that they will further deepen the crisis in many sectors and the welfare deficit of citizens. That is precisely why we need action now to support those who are now doing the weakest. At a time of crisis, it is not sensible to cut off services, but to revive and support people over the worst. We must be able to hope for the future — that is exactly what the draft budget for next year intends to do. With a large package of 1.45 billion municipalities, we secure basic services for people. In addition, the immediate costs associated with the treatment of the corona virus will be fully reimbursed. In the management of employment, we start a leap towards the Nordic model of individual support for job search, which is fair and fair. In addition, we will invest in education in a historical way in the coming year: the extension of compulsory education is a reform of the 2020s of primary schools, which will combat the exclusion of young people and significantly improve their labour market position. Mr President! In the midst of an acute health crisis, we must also be determined to fight longer-term crises. The threats of climate change have not stopped or disappeared, even though the attention for the past year has been strongly focused on the management of the pandemic. However, I personally see that the fight against climate change can become a strength for us Finns. This is precisely what the Sustainable Growth Programme aims to achieve. Finland has a wealth of expertise and knowledge about the sustainable coordination of industry and the environment. There is also a willingness to invest in Finland precisely because capital is currently seeking places where carbon-free and fossil-free solutions can actually be produced. Mr President! The exit from the crisis is not a short-distance race but a long-distance endurance race. It's a marathon. According to the latest OECD report for this species So far, Finland has done relatively well. Our economy is among the least affected countries. There is therefore no reason to believe that we cannot get out of this crisis even at a better time. Now we just have to wait a little longer and follow the recommendations of the authorities. We're gonna get through this, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u179	Mr President! I was a little busy. I'm still a little short of breath. — The budget for next year is in the feedback debate today, and there was a rigorous debate here in the morning and even at noon on what this budget is about, and it feels that the government and the opposition have a significantly different view of what should be done next year. I personally think that this difference of opinion may be greater in the long term than in the short term. Debt recovery will be needed next year while we are still in the midst of the corona crisis, hardly anyone will disagree with that. When you look at our budget, the National Coalition Party, the alternative budget or, for example, the alternative budget of the People's Republic of Finland or KD, Christian Democrats, everyone will be in debt next year. In practice, it is impossible to avoid it. However, what we offered in our own option was that we should start the structural reforms that the Finnish economy desperately needs in the labour market right now, at the latest next year. Of course, we have already proposed them in our alternative budget for last year, and we will be proposing them as long as they are not yet done by the government. Mr President! Finland’s economy has long been in deficit. During the previous term of government, together with the Centre Party, we took a large number of employment measures to improve the long-term sustainability of the economy. At the same time, some very difficult decisions were taken to reduce public spending and thus to bridge the sustainability gap. What will happen in the coming years? The population in Finland is still ageing, even fast, and at the same time the birth rate is still at a low level. However, employment is not at the same level as it is in other Nordic countries, for example, and together with our ageing population and our older population, this is a very big problem, which is also referred to as the sustainability gap. In practice, therefore, it means that the tax revenue from work and enterprise that we collect will not be sufficient to cover the expenditure that we have committed ourselves to. So what's the expense? Many of the very important services that municipalities provide, often also income transfers, where people supplement their own income. What the coalition suggests is that an increasing number of people would get along with their own work. It is actually the only way to ensure the long-term sustainability of the Finnish economy. Mr President! Here earlier in the day, we also discussed whether or not municipalities should be supported. I think the answer is obvious: of course we must support it. However, in this situation of interest rates, municipal support should focus on where the damage and losses due to the interest rate are greatest. It now seems that this has not happened in all respects for this year. Secondly, the best support for municipalities is the same measures that support the sustainability of public finances in general, i.e. structural employment measures. The large income item of municipalities is also the share of income tax and corporate income tax — or, of course, the municipal tax comes directly to the municipal treasury — and when, for example, the rise in unemployment leads to a shrinking trend, everyone understands that the finances of municipalities are weak. Mr President! The reform of compulsory education, which the government calls the biggest reforms, will once again bring new tasks to the municipalities. I have said here in the past that, especially now that this bill, with all its shortcomings, has been adopted with insufficient resources, I hope that it will bring even the minor effects it has been estimated to have in the long term, because in the short term it is obvious that municipalities will have to fight for the quality of education next year at second level and at other levels of education when there are not sufficient resources available for the municipalities. Mr President! Looks like my time's up. We'll continue the conversation later.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u180	Here's what we're gonna do. — Mr Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u181	Mr President! This year, interest has become a nuisance for us, and it will probably be a nuisance for us next year. The number of infections continues to grow rapidly. Although news of vaccinations and the onset of vaccinations give cause for hope, the coming winter will certainly be difficult and challenging. However, preparations should also be made for the possibility of facilitating the interest rate situation next spring and summer. In the future, we will be judged on how well we survived with the corona and how quickly we got on our feet. In the spring, Korona brought the parties close together, and the special laws were enacted jointly. But politics has returned, and things are fighting happily again. Some disputes seem glutted in comparison to the fact that there is quite a consensus on the billions of debt. We are talking about debt with different weights, but we are ready for additional borrowing at almost the same rate. This was also demonstrated by the opposition's shadow budgets. Next year's budget will actually pick up where we left off for the year 20. People’s health will be cared for with all their strength and companies will be supported. The purpose of the recovery is to safeguard jobs, in particular those of export companies. Last week in this Chamber, municipal subsidies were raised, and some of the speeches criticised their excess. There was even talk of municipal billions. I personally consider it to be contrary to municipal reality. Municipalities produce the majority of our local and basic services and are the most important heart of our society. Ensuring these services ensures that the whole country and all Finns can be kept alive. Nearly half a million Finns work in the municipal sector. So there's a lot of people's bread. President! I am very concerned about those disadvantaged people whose voice is not being heard. Korona has affected us all in one way or another. The everyday life of many already disadvantaged Finns has become even worse. Recovery, support for municipalities and investments in the integrity of society will improve the situation of these people in particular. The Government is also prepared to receive corona vaccine for Finns in its budget. It's probably the fastest and best way out of this situation. Of course, along with resuscitation, there should be no opposing action. Structural reforms must instead be made. This week, in this Chamber, we have discussed, among other things, the issue of social reform and the extension of compulsory education. They are examples of the government taking reform seriously and also inviting the opposition. President! I also encourage the government to pursue open-minded and courageous labour market reforms so that companies can flourish in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u182	Mr President! The first word that comes to mind in a year is the corona. Our task has been creative in a new, strange situation, to listen to experts from different sectors, to follow closely what is happening in other parts of the world, to anticipate and at the same time to try to safeguard people's health, the operating conditions of companies and, therefore, jobs. This is all based on the budget that is now under discussion. The budget will support the survival of businesses and safeguard jobs, especially in the export industry. The reduction in industrial electricity tax and the continuation of the halving of fairway charges are examples of this. The municipalities are exceptionally heavily supported. It is about two things: ensuring equal local and basic services and avoiding lay-offs and redundancies for municipal workers — all of which are unfortunately familiar to us municipal decision-makers. The social integrity of society must also be taken care of at all times, especially during difficult times. Many Finns, who are already experiencing difficulties, are now getting weaker. Regional integrity and the security of people's daily lives must also be fostered. That is why, for example, the budget for road maintenance and the police will be increased. In order to increase the sense of security for all Finns, it must be possible to ensure that the police are also visible in a sparsely populated area, and the focus on police services must finally be stopped. Mr President! The desire for multi-spatial housing has grown in people. During the Korona period, it has been observed that working and studying with distance connections is entirely possible from a distance. Work and various services are increasingly online. However, the basic prerequisite for equal services is fast and functional broadband connections around the world and, above all, everywhere in Finland. The central policy objective is to increase people's freedom of choice. People's place of residence or opportunities to try and work must not be determined on the basis of what is possible in any part of Finland. It is precisely the task of this house to make things possible. The Centre Party wants to build a more regionally balanced Finland. Ultimately, it is a question of people's freedom of choice and how the government could help to support it better — by creating conditions and reforming outdated practices, both in the services of people and within the state administration. The coming Finland’s sustainable growth programme must include the construction of high-speed broadband connections throughout Finland, including rural areas and leisure homes, and above all fibre fibres must be taken into account. The EU's recovery instrument will give it much better opportunities than it has been in the past. Each ministry, in cooperation with officials and employees in its own administrative field, should carry out a study of work tasks that can be multi-placed. The government will then have to set quantitative targets for multi-location tasks. This would support people’s freedom of choice to live and to work, in whole or in part, beyond where the location of the job has led them at the time. Mr President! This budget brings work, it brings health, and it brings security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u183	Mr President! The budget for next year will continue to be determined by challenging times and the challenges posed by the interest rate. At the same time, we also turn a blind eye to the time after the corona. So far, Finland has done reasonably well in terms of both the economy and health, and the government wants to continue along this path. Continue to implement the short-term support measures required by the interest rate so that we can cope with this disease. The bridge is still being built over the most difficult bridge — the opposite is already visible. However, after a recovery policy, there will be a stricter spending policy. The treasury is not bottomless. The path to a sustainable economy must be reached. After an acute crisis, we face major longer-term problems. To overcome these, we need structural reforms with slower effects. Next year we will be launching an extension of compulsory education. It is worth remembering that Finland’s competitiveness and well-being are built on knowledge, research and innovation. When we raise the level of competence of our people, we will remain on the move. When we invest in raising the level of education, we also keep everyone involved in the welfare process. In addition, the reform of social security has now taken place in committee. It is a huge entity and a service for the whole of Finland. Mr President! This year, the state has taken violent attacks on behalf of businesses, citizens and municipalities. Finland is not alone in this. In other countries too, debt has had to be taken to a large extent. Soon the time for blackmail will come, and then each of us will be weighed. The easier it will be to balance public finances, the smarter we can make reforms that increase income and reduce expenditure. The Finnish productivity leap requires courage to reform. The news of the vaccine will bring us light until tomorrow. The beginning of winter is still difficult, but it is time for us to look further. This budget also includes smaller, important items financed from Parliament's allocation funds. I am glad that the repair debt for road repairs is also reduced and we have received road blocks from different parts of Finland that will be put in order. This also helps the countryside and sparsely populated areas to appear to us as more attractive alternatives to living, working and trying. I also welcome the support given to national parks and nature and hiking sites and the amount allocated to the operating costs of liberal educational institutions. It comes to the implementation of immigrant training. The adult education centres serving as boarding schools are very suitable for this, because the home and school are in the same package. This will make an important contribution to the effectiveness of integration. I am also delighted with the aid for the start-up of wood construction and the support for village activities. The interest in rural areas has been strengthened by the interest in the Koronapandemia, and the increase in teleworking has reduced the threshold for moving to the country. The activities of local village associations and the information they provide on the areas will support the repatriation and increase the vitality of rural areas. This budget takes Finland forward again for a small part.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u184	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, and also Mrs Viitanen, who is leaving the Chamber. In the interest period, praise must be given to the Finnish people — This situation has been handled quite well in Finland, and it has been done responsibly in many places — and thanks also for lightening the interest rate shock. It is the chosen path in almost all the corona - possessed countries that the larger carries a slightly larger part of this attack. However, frontline nurses, local nurses, nurses, doctors, including those working in the care of the elderly, have experienced that they have been forgotten in this treatment of the corona crisis. I personally feel — and I am talking about my own idea and my own view — that the care and care staff have worked so hard during this difficult year, even failing to take their leave, all the time being alerted by the Emergency Act in an exceptional way that it is absolutely inevitable that, in one way or another, those people on the front line should be looking for that special interest compensation. In my opinion, they would certainly have earned it. But I'm worried about jobs. A lot has been said here, at least from the ranks of the centre, that the worst would already be over and that this budget for next year's left-wing government would in some way bring light and create faith. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The tourism situation in Lapland is catastrophic. The messages from Lapland are such that thousands and thousands of jobs, hundreds of companies are in really big trouble this winter. Sport is in a very difficult situation. It may well be that we have top-notch sports teams, series, but also individual top-notch athletes, many careers will be cut off from this corona crisis if they are not helped. And at the very last, or rather for a long time, we have received messages from the music industry and the field of events, and for a long time the government has ignored them. Well, at last Minister Saarikko had a few speeches and a Teams meeting and did a social media update, but they will not save these tens of thousands of jobs in the field of events and music. There is a genuine need for help at the moment, and that help is not only beautiful words, sympathy, but also money to help the music industry cope with this difficult situation. The service sector, barbers, masseuses, physical care facilities are also in a very difficult situation. Now the latest data tell us that this corona crisis is not yet going away, but at its worst it can possess us for another 18 months or even 24 months from now, that is, for up to 2 years. Mr President! Thank you for a few things. Thank you to Parliament for having the government's surgery Keep Saaristo Siitinä ry's vessel acquisition in Saimaa was returned to Parliament, it is valuable. I would also like to thank you for the decision to cancel the reduction in funding for 4H activities in Parliament on the basis of the budgetary initiative I have taken. Thank you to the government parties for taking this bill to the hearing ears and for canceling the 4H operation. Reaching up on the road repair debt is very welcome, and I would also like to thank you for that. But there are two things that amaze me. I also made a bill that could have compensated for the profits that were calculated for the Veterans' collections. I do not understand that the government did not find any sympathy for these honourable citizens so that this calculated the proceeds of the collection, which is the main reason for the interest and the fact that the collection could not be carried out by the militarymen, could have been compensated. And finally, the therapeutic guarantee: I am surprised that even today, in this Chamber, from the left, the centre, too, has been spoken of beautifully about the therapeutic guarantee, but that money, 35 million, seemed to run out at the exact moment when it was time for young people's mental health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u185	Mr President! First of all, I would like to address what Mr Heinonen said in his own speech, namely that these tired nurses are becoming increasingly tired with the corona, and more of them are thinking about changing the sector just because they are exhausted from this situation. I myself wonder that, of course, it is a little difficult for us here in Parliament to take these labour market policy decisions, but of course I hope that, now that the municipalities have received quite a lot of interest subsidy, extra money, the municipalities will be able to see if there are some ways of facilitating the role of carers. Of course, it is not just a question of what pay they receive or what overtime allowances or the like; it is simply a question of having the conditions for their operations in order that there will be sufficient staff on the ground when needed and so on. After all, the situation is alarming when so many people today want out of these tasks or may not even apply in the first place. Mr President! My original intention was to talk about unemployment or, in fact, employment, because many times we members of the Coalition have been little accused of criticising this debt, what is happening to Finland, but it is not really about that. Also, if the coalition were in government, Finland would probably be in debt, probably less, but it would be important for us to take action at the same time to ensure that the cycle of debt is cut off. Earlier today, Mr Lepomäki gave a good speech on the way in which Sweden and Germany have planned and discussed this growth, how this problem of deficit and debt is only a temporary situation and that the perspective must be that growth will be achieved in the future. Mr President! In addition to Germany, we must also compare ourselves with the other Nordic countries. This week I was looking at these employment rates, and unfortunately it is the case that in all age groups in Finland the employment rate is the lowest compared to the other Nordic countries. But what worries me most is unemployment among those over 55 at the moment, and especially for men. The OECD countries have also drawn attention to this in their calculations. Of course, I myself was wondering, among other things, what we have been dealing with this autumn, namely the retirement of the pension line and what the government's view and decision on this matter might be. Are we going or not? This is a bit of a two-way issue. For example, when the Finnish Economist Association has conducted a survey of its own members during this autumn, this retirement is not the first step that should be taken to get older workers to work, but rather to consider that there are better practices. Of course, many people also think about what the real situation is when the 60s are approached and over, actually get the job, that is, whether it is right for a person to fall on top of a 60-year-old earnings-related labour market subsidy and, as it were, into a poverty trap. I am not quite sure whether this is a sensible measure after all, because although it has been said that 10,000 jobs can be made available as a result of this, it may be that the figures are too optimistic. And, Mr President, when I come back to this study of the Economist Union, the first measure that is recommended and hoped to be carried out on the market is that the compensation of the employer's side costs should be borne by the State. These are quite expensive for those over the age of 54, and in fact it has been calculated that if they were fully compensated, we would talk about up to four billion at the Finnish level. In Sweden, for example, a model has been made to partially compensate for them, to be differentiated according to the age of the worker, and this has, of course, been achieved in relation to the size of the Swedish economy. I personally think it is important that we consider how these employer's side costs are taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u186	Mr President! Today's Bank of Finland's economic forecast headlined that Finland's economy recovers from the pandemic, but growth conditions are weak. Is there any room for this increase in this budget? I think there are: investments in research and development, knowledge, education, large investment packages all over Finland, which have been rather low in this debate, as well as the future recovery fund, which is an important tool for us to build growth. Mr President! The drawing up of the 2021 budget still takes place a little through the fog curtain, as has been said here in the Chamber, even though some light is visible with the news of the vaccine. Of course, the economic recession and uncertainty that came as a result of the 10 months of the corona crisis are reflected in the outlook for the economy. By its own actions, the government has tried to minimise the epidemic’s adverse effects by supporting municipalities, saving businesses and jobs and protecting people’s daily lives and health. The measures cannot be seen in budgetary terms and in budgetary balance. In today's speeches, the opposition has passed the effects of the global crisis on the content of this budget as well. Nevertheless, we must also be able to create a positive outlook, recovery and growth, which I believe the draft budget contains. From the perspective of the Finnish welfare society, it is important that we support the municipal economy and the health care districts in order to cope with the crisis. The significant package of approximately 3 billion local government finances for this year and the coming budget year has made it much easier to draw up municipal economic plans, although the coming years from 22 onwards are still challenging. It is important that, in accordance with the Government Programme, we take forward the implementation of future investments in the budget. The opposition's criticism of the lack of structural reforms does seem disproportionate. Social and health reform, raising the compulsory age, the introduction of the Nordic model of employment are far from the local agreement of the opposition, cuts in social security and unemployment security and the confusion of the labour market. The central objective of the Government's budget proposal is to increase the level of education and skills through future investment. The measures are reflected in the increase in starting positions for universities and universities of applied sciences — for example, the University of Eastern Finland will receive more than 200 more start-ups — and in the significant remuneration of additional teachers in vocational education and training to replace the previous government vocational school reform. In particular, I am warmed up by the strong role of regional policy in the Government Programme and in this budget, which is reflected, in particular, in increasing the importance of transport policy and accessibility from the point of view of the regions. The Saimaa Canal, which is important to Eastern Finland, the eastern track in the future and many of the road projects that have been decided on in the past, are now funded through this budget. In addition, the Christmas gift money round around Finland also provided additional funding for the lower road network. In particular, I think that the transport infrastructure package is also important from the point of view of employment and recovery. The Budget Paper outlines the next phase of future investment, where the EU's recovery instrument will be combined into a structural and cyclically effective entity, explains the strong future faith and perspective of the government. In addition, the Government's additional investment in R & D and the multi-annual financing decision of the future EU regional development elements for the years 21 to 27 will support the Government's big vision of the future and the vision of building growth even in this crisis situation. Mr President! Despite the challenging operating environment, the State budget 2021 supports the recovery of the economy and employment in this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u187	Mr President! We are having this budgetary feedback debate in a very serious situation. Koronapandem is still raging around the world, and even in Finland, this control of the virus situation requires a constant, demanding balance between health, economy and social impacts, all of which are strongly interlinked. Addressing the Koronavirus and guaranteeing the safety of Finns requires a strong contribution from the state, both through direct funding for the management of the virus situation and through investments in the basic and local services, care and care of Finns. The vaccine we are looking at is lucky to hope for next year, although it will certainly not immediately bring an immediate solution or a return to normal corona-free everyday life and society. For this reason, the survival of businesses in the crisis must also continue to be supported, as companies are the driving force behind the welfare society. They create work and livelihood and thus well-being. That is why, in addition to direct payments, we must also support the competitiveness of businesses and jobs in the export industry. The reduction of the electricity tax on industry and the continuation of the halving of fairway charges are therefore very important measures. Finland must also play its part in promoting the recovery of the EU so that the European single market for nearly 500 million people in Finnish businesses can recover. In this way, we support the fact that in Finnish machineshops the lathes are spinning and industry’s rapidly thinning order books are starting to grow stronger. Thousands and thousands of Finnish accounts depend on the recovery of the EU. That is why the only responsible way for a policy supporting Finnish work and entrepreneurship is to support the recovery of our common internal market. There is no room for easy-hitting populism, not in national policy, but also in EU policy. Domestic demand can be supported by national stimulus, and that is what we are doing, but the export market cannot be revived by national measures alone, Mr President. This requires action where the market is, and that is what the EU recovery package is all about. Mr President! I would also like to thank the members of the Board of Directors of the Committee on Finance for the decisions taken last week with regard to Parliament's increase in appropriations. The package of EUR 40 million includes a number of welcome projects across Finland and important investments in important work, for example, by defence organisations and women’s organisations. Of course, the EUR 40 million package as a whole is limited in scope, but very important and impressive locally for many items. With special joy, of course, I welcome the budget for my own country, Satakunta, for example, for the construction of a lack of lighting in Eura, which will improve road safety in these connecting regions and on roads where light traffic and heavy traffic are currently mixed up and routes are therefore particularly dangerous for cyclists and pedestrians. I would also like to thank the funding for improving the poor Jäm road in Jämijärvi, and also for investing in the management of Säkylä Pyhäjärvi and in the development of Lauhanvuori-Hämeenkangas Geopark are wise proposals that also support a sustainable economy, in this case the food industry and sustainable tourism, which have enormous potential and are worth developing. In addition to these, improving highway 2 in Humppila between highway 9 and road 232 improves traffic flow and serves both a person and a professional route between different regions. The route is familiar to me too — it must be carried every week. It would therefore be valuable for the opposition to be able to support these excellent projects by supporting this draft budget next Monday. To summarise the nutshell: the situation is serious and requires cooperation and a budget for work, health and security, and in this spirit the proposal has also been built. You can well describe it with a pair of words from fog to light. I support it and call on the government to take decisive action to promote work, health and safety from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u188	Mr President! Let us deal with the budget, which, in this situation, takes particular account of the moment in which we are now living. There's light in sight, as a lot of people here have said. We hope that the vaccines will be effective so that, perhaps before the summer, we can return to some sort of new normality, which is even more limited than what we came to be in this corona crisis. Now it is important to note that we are putting money where money is needed. The government has had to take out debt, but it has been tried to allocate the debt correctly to those who need the most money. The mistake of the '90s recession when companies were driven down by saving banks was not repeated. Now let's save businesses by borrowing at zero, like the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u191	Mr President! The budget for next year's 2021 is on the table. We are still in an exceptional situation because of a global pandemic. Since spring, we have been fighting this virus in Finland, and it has caused many situations and decisions here in Parliament and very drastic restrictions on people's everyday lives. Interest and the resulting consequences have caused economic shocks around the world and also in Finland, although in international comparison we have so far managed quite well from the point of view of both the economy and the health situation. During the crisis, the Marin Government and Parliament have been flexible and fast enough. Timely restrictive measures have been effective. But it has had its price. Finland is in debt as a result of the interest rate, because there has been a conscious line that the state is taking on the most severe blow in the corona crisis and is seeking to support and protect as much as possible the activities of companies and thus the preservation of jobs and the finances of municipalities, thereby securing the necessary services in municipalities. Companies have been supported by a number of instruments. The amount of direct cost subsidies, development aid and guarantees will amount to more than EUR 1 billion. These subsidies will certainly not save all businesses and jobs, but they will be an important aid to thousands of companies that continue to suffer as a result of the effects of the interest rate. Some companies have also been able to raise their voice in this difficult situation. It is a good thing that there will also be winners in this period of time, so that new jobs can be created in those companies. Mr President! The situation of municipalities has been challenging even before the corona, such as my own municipality Nokia, which has been under heavy investment pressure for several years. Schools, day-care centres, well-being centres, or health centres that were recently dismantled, must be built because the city is growing and the old facilities have been unhealthy. Municipal residents, i.e. schoolchildren, patients, teachers, nurses and doctors, need healthy and functional facilities. These construction needs have existed in many municipalities. Nokia, with a large number of industrial jobs, faced a challenging situation as the international market slowed down with the corona crisis. The challenges of enterprises and the effects of unemployment are visible in the local government economy. I am pleased that discretionary state aid was still able to help the municipalities worst affected at the end of the year, including Nokia. The Marin Government has strongly supported municipalities to ensure that services, early childhood education, education, health and social services work. It is important that they work well, especially at a time when it is already difficult. Now we must not lay off or lay off in the municipalities, but we must go very far beyond the crisis. Let us keep our professionals there in the front row of disease treatment functioning and motivated. Rewarded for a job well done. The municipality has been well supported. It should therefore be possible, for example, to keep healthcare professionals working on an adequate salary. Significant resources will be allocated to the expenditure on interest and the management of the management debt. Mr President! I would also like to thank the government for fully compensating for the fall in gambling profits to the organisations. The compensation of EUR 347 million is large but absolutely necessary for the organisation's activities, which do an important, well-being-promoting activity. For example, sports and sports are almost entirely dependent on the income of Veikkaus. The fall in the revenue of the bet is due to measures to prevent gambling addiction, but in particular to the interest rate, and is a serious threat to clubs and organisations. This problem must be resolved in the future, because it can be seen that the revenue of the bet is falling permanently to a lower level than before. I am very concerned about that. I've even started betting on it. That's why the lotto's pulling now. Securing the funding of physical activity will continue to be important. Mobility creates a huge expense for society. Preventive action must be invested in all sectors. The cultural sector is also in difficulty, and this must be taken into account. Finally, Mr President, although the corona has overshadowed the whole year and will certainly overshadow the coming year, the government has been able to push forward major reforms. This week, the Social Security Reform came to Parliament. That can be done by Parliament from now on. The historic reform has also been voted today on an extension of compulsory education, which will secure free secondary education for all our children and young people. Such major and significant reforms of education policy are rarely undertaken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u192	Mr President! The interest-rate crisis has led to an exceptionally severe indebtedness of public finances. In 2020, public debt will increase by nearly EUR 20 billion. Growth is worrying. Now that the money taps have been opened, a lot of things are being done under the pretext of the corona crisis that is not necessary. The measures required by the interest-rate crisis to safeguard health and save businesses must be taken, but otherwise we must look further. It's just today that we're in Finland. The Bank called for an acute crisis to be seen beyond long-term growth. That's a wise advice. We must therefore be able to live side by side. The alternative is to build sustainable growth for the future, based on employment. At present, there are about one and a half people in Finland who are not working for one person. The contribution of two people of working age must therefore be able to support three non-working Finns. In order to ensure quality education for Finns, functional health services and valuable old age, more and more people of working age should work. That is why we have concerns about the shortcomings of the government's employment policies. It is the only sustainable way to secure the basis of our prosperity. We have presented the means to create 120,000 jobs and have offered them for common use. The path of debt that has now been chosen must be cut off so that it will not be borne by our children. As far as tax policies are concerned, we would now need tax recovery to create growth, not new levels of taxation, i.e. regional tax. The time to abandon it is now. However, it is not only about employment and economic activities, but also about other issues in which we can support the rise. In conclusion, I would like to make a few picks on the issues on which it is important to invest at the moment and which, in my view, have not been sufficiently taken up in this budget. These are for the future. First: Finland's economic growth can only be based on high levels of knowledge in a sustainable way. That is why we must now invest in education, research and innovation. With regard to this budget, I myself made two budget initiatives, including the model of joint training and the Research Centre for Wood Construction, but there would be a lot of needs in this field to support the rise. Another aspect: Mental health is one of the biggest challenges to our public health, which affects both working life, the graduation of students and the well-being of people in general. The therapy guarantee must be implemented. That's what's missing in this budget. Thirdly, we need to recognise how to boost growth by sector. For example, the development of services sectors can be accelerated by extending the household allowance. This is what the Coalition Party has proposed in its alternative budget. Fourth: Accessibility is one of the key drivers of vitality. That is why transport investment, and in particular high-speed rail links, must now be vigorously promoted. These proposals can also be found in the alternative budget for the Coalition Party, and I myself made three budget initiatives, for example, to develop the Third and Nineties in order to ensure accessibility. Number five: In addition to these factors, care must be taken to ensure that energy is not consumed by worry. With security, I am referring here both to internal security, such as the number of policemen, and also to everyday security. Mr President! However, the most important thing for the long term is that the government prepares a credible, comprehensive and sufficiently bold plan for the balance of public finances for Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u193	Mr President! As has already been said many times, the government's economic line is right, it is fair and fair, and it is a source of new growth. The right solution is now the solution for resuscitation. And, of course, we all understand that this is not the time to get in the way of surgery. The government has made important choices in this regard. In addition to taking care of the situation, people's health, livelihoods here and now, we have, at the same time, made important structural reforms. The last time today was an honorable, solemn, wonderful moment to vote in favour of extending compulsory education. It's a great, new, new piece of history. — Isn't that right, Mr. Gustafsson? I am looking at you there, we agree with 101% of this, and we understand the importance of this, and we are also very pleased about this today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u200	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The green left government of Sanna Marin and the centre is actually sparing only with the recognition of the facts. Unfortunately, this has also been seen in today's debates. However, this government decided to make one cut, and that cut is a cut in the household allowance. I was wondering, Mr Viitanen, what were you thinking about when you left to cut the household allowance? [Quick Five]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u203	The general discussion and the proceedings shall be suspended. The general discussion will continue in this plenary session after the section-specific general discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u204	The general debate on the budget, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u205	Mr President! Sorry for the delay. But you have to think deeply about what you are doing. There are very good things here that have been done and prepared for the ministry and the report, there are no two words. But there must also be a critical aspect: how we in this country deal with the issues that are all the prerequisites for managing these activities that we are doing. It is sad to find it somewhat repugnant that there is also a need for restrictions, not just justifications, and I am a little critical of that. Now that I was a little late, I will probably take the floor. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u206	Mr President! It is true that corona pandemic has affected everything that is happening in Finland at the moment. Nevertheless, the government cannot withdraw behind the corona in all its actions. The government is trying to make the pandemic a cause of its failure to do so and its lack of access to economic reform and development. Money is used without blurring, using corona as an excuse. Of course we must take care of the people and businesses affected by the corona, but we are going to miss out on this, first and foremost, from above and hard. The country’s creditworthiness is stretched and money is spent when many expenditures have a Ronski interest rate. This might still be the case if the government were also considering the revenue side of central government finances, but I do not think it would. Let's just live in debt. The government promises a lot of things. In next year's budget, promises will be covered by debt money. The government offers, future generations pay. In particular, in such a difficult situation, we should be concerned about the future of our children and about the sustainability of economic policy — now it is not. It is clear that the pandemic will entail additional costs and must be managed by the State, if necessary, of course, even with the debt money, but every time a loan is taken out, one has to consider where the income will be generated by which the loan will then be paid out. The solution cannot be to put the tax bear's paw deeper and deeper into the pockets of the wage earner and the entrepreneur. The Alliance's alternative budget, the path of Hope, presents good proposals on how to make the economy grow and create the conditions under which companies can hire more people to work. On the path of hope of the Coalition Party 120,000 Finns would get a job. It wonders — and I have asked here before — why the government does not have such a plan at all. I think the government has the largest special assistant and secretarial army in the country's history at its disposal, and there are no proposals to believe in the government's vision of the future. I wonder what this huge assistant-master in the state council castle and ministries is doing when only money is spent and the income side is very under consideration. It is quite strange that the government is not having a debate on the future of the welfare state and what this debt burden will bring about. Can't you do it, or doesn't it matter when you still get your debt? We now need to promote measures to bring Finland up after the pandemic. Instead, the government's cluttering as it goes on and on. Mr President! Under all circumstances, economic and economic policy must be responsible. Sustainable development and, for example, the sustainable environmental policy we have just talked about are well-known concepts for everyone. Sustainable economic policy — it would seem to be familiar, but it does not seem to be for the government at least. Mr President! I agree with Mr Marttinen's protest here today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u207	Mr President! Korona has changed the world, at least temporarily, and the outlook for the economy is blurry. It is difficult to plan your daily life for a week—a couple of days or even beyond tomorrow. Entrepreneurs have borne a disproportionate burden, whether they are export companies, service companies, technology software companies, and in that sense we need a clearer view of the future, sustainable growth, but it is not through support and trick job creation, and there is no reason not to do so, but rather to do more. Indeed, Finns deserve a better view of tomorrow, and that must indeed be possible. The brighter future of how to overcome this colossal swamp does not come true by itself, but requires action on our part, especially from us who bear the responsibility. In this context, as the financial framework has been scrapped, public debt has increased by almost EUR 20 billion this year. The taking of an extraordinary pandemic by the State is understandable and, of course, is also needed, but that future will not be built up by dealing with this acute crisis, but must be able to carry out reforms. We need to be able to create that view of the future, fill out company order books and spin the wheels of the economy so that Finnish working people get more paid. It is this new growth, new jobs, lighter taxation of employees and pensioners, strengthening the purchasing power of households, such as expanding and doubling the household allowance, implementing the therapeutic guarantee and reducing the sustainability gap by EUR 4 billion. These would create the hoped-for hope for a better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u208	Mr President! The value choices of the left-wing government are expensive for Finns. The government distributes money to everyone but to those whose money is distributed: Finns working and trying. In the midst of the economic crisis, when more work is needed, the government punishes work. By the fruits of their own work, hardworking Finns will be able to keep even less to themselves next year. There has been no talk of new wage tax increases in the public domain, but the fact is that the government is allowing labour taxation to continue to tighten. The nurse who is now stretched to the limit of her work due to the corona crisis will be left with less in hand next year. I put together the calculations published by the Finnish Taxpayer Federation on tax extortion during the Marin government. The result is harsh: Next year, the income of the middle-income family will be cut by more than EUR 1000 due to an increase in the tax burden on labour compared to the level of 2019. For middle-income earners, the taxation of labour will rise by 0.5 percentage points above the level of 2019, since the increase in social insurance contributions will not be compensated for. In euro, more than EUR 400 less of the wages in the teacher and police economy will be left in hand than when this government starts in 2019. In addition, the government has cut the household allowance. The average effect of the cut in force at the beginning of the year, which is approximately EUR 1000 in advance of the household allowance, is approximately EUR 220. In August, a new fuel tax increase — an historic fuel tax increase — came into force, in practice, on employment. As a result of the gas tax, the additional bill will be at least EUR 80 with moderate consumption and driving. In other words, there is talk of an additional tax of at least EUR 160 in the two working households. Thus, the price tag of left-wing government policy for middle-income Finns is already over a ton a year — that is, over a ton a year. It is a lot of money, and this is therefore due to the government's decision-making, conscious solutions. The increase in Sova payments could have been compensated by the government, as was done by the Sipilä Government, but no, this was not done. The taxation of labour is tightening. The wage and salary earners were not compensated for anything, let alone strengthened purchasing power by reducing the tax burden on labour. So the scrapping of incentives for hard work has been a conscious choice of values. From the whole, you can see that it really matters what the parties in the government are. Well, next year employees would have an average of EUR 500 more in the hands of the Coalition Party than in the government's misery line. We want to give people their own money and strengthen their purchasing power. This is in line with, for example, the tax recovery of the Swedish Demarine Government. As a result of the tax reductions made by Swedish Social Democrats, the tax burden on the average person will be further reduced compared to Finland. By 2023, the average income in Sweden will leave about two and a half thousand euros a year more in hand than the average income in Finland. Why did fellow demersals here in Finland choose another line of tax evasion that penalises a worker? I don't understand. Mr President! The tight situation of Finns can be helped by other means than through the budget. The Coalition Party wants to stop the increase in the cost of living. We have taken a legislative initiative to cut the monopoly revenues of electricity grid companies, thereby reducing and curbing the increase in housing costs by up to EUR 500 million a year. After all, electricity transmission prices have risen disproportionately. Both private and municipal-owned network companies have raised prices. Contrary to what is generally believed, the core problem is not the sale of state distribution networks, but the price control model that allows this price increase. It is not right that, in the midst of the economic crisis, electricity grid companies are making a return on equity of more than 30%.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u211	Mr President, I am sorry for the delay. There was a strong talk above, and all we can do is agree with it. In certain cases, we are certainly in line with the fact that the taxation of electricity transmission prices in particular affects the low-income ones in particular. It's not tied to income. It is precisely that everyone should be taken, even if there is no chance of paying. I would also like to see medicines from the assembly on how to deal with the fact that poverty does not increase through this. But I am taking the floor because I was very pleased with the speech made by Mrs Kauman on the pension line. What is very interesting is that Finnish Entrepreneurs have conducted a membership survey, to which more than 50 per cent of companies saw that now is not the time, now is not the time and it makes no sense to remove the pension pipeline. And this is something that we in the government parties should take up here, the signal that there are views on how to do these things on the business side. In my opinion, the most important thing is that, even if we want to save businesses and save them from the fact that there are no bankruptcies, we now see the next step towards growth, which includes facilitating the threshold for hiring the first employees in companies. This interest rate has shown that new business will nevertheless emerge. It should now be possible to reduce the social security contributions for the first employee to zero in the first year and gradually be brought forward so that we can actually make it attractive for these small businesses, the sole self-employed, to dare: ‘We now need new workers for his family business, so that we can be brave and know what the future is. “ That is why it is very important that we now look to tomorrow and not just what we are trying to save. Tomorrow's tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u212	Mr President! During this debate, Mr Kopra drew attention to the scale of the government delegation and to the extent to which it has grown. The Marin government has a record number of ministers' political secretaries and special assistants, almost twice as many as the previous governments. The fact that these will be an additional EUR 5 million per year in the form of wages did not yet seem to be sufficient here, but because of the increasing number of assistants, almost EUR 2 million per year has been added to the ministries. These operating expenses include representation and assistant salaries, i.e. assistants’ assistants’ salaries in Finnish. Previous Prime Minister Antti Mr Rinne justified the large number of assistants with the management of the EU Presidency. On the other hand, the current Prime Minister, Sanna Marin, justified the record high level of assistants by the state of emergency caused by the government crisis. Well, this is a very brilliant argument when government crises seem to be here every week these days. Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that both the Presidency of the European Union and these government crises are, seriously, as far as I understand, history, but the political cabinets seem to remain record-breaking. Could the government not reduce the number of its assistants to a normal level and thus reduce the tax burden of millions of euros for the Finnish taxpayer?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u213	Mr President! In my speech just now, I told you about the overall picture, but also about these research and development funds. As stated in the report of the Committee on Finance, there will be no specific, significant additions to R & D funding for next year, but we public actors should now just wake up to the fact that it is time to invest in research and product development, whether it is about interest rate measures or about sustainable growth related to the green deal. Now, if I take the example of these interest rate measures: we would have Finnish technology expertise for both tracking and different technology application if we were able, as public actors — our government, ministries, THL and municipalities — to quickly introduce and experiment with Finnish technology. At the same time, we would create jobs, give these companies the hope, the prospect of the future, from which Mrs Myllykoski here said that we should look a little further, and, knowing that the pandemic is global, at the same time as references from the domestic market would enable them to make partners and export. Take, for example, this Koronastop, which allows these numbers to be collected. The actor has tried to approach our STM and THL, and I have opened doors myself. The operator told us that a couple of weeks ago he got a big deal and a license in the United States, but it seems that here in Finland, the domestic market does not understand this technology making possible, and that if someone insists on investing in this situation. The Coalition Party would have capitalised universities of applied sciences and universities in its alternative budget by one billion, and it also called for permanent public funding for research activities to be increased by EUR 100 million every year for the next ten years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u214	Mr President — I am sorry, President! Didn't start out so promising. It's a long night already. Mr President! I personally think that the previous speakers here have had very constructive speeches, so I am not going to take a constructive line, unfortunately. I have seen that the government is guided by hope and fear that other government parties will leave the government, and I do not think that this is really enough. Hope is not a strategy in itself, so nothing can be built on hope. But if you build a long and reliable strategy based on facts, it creates hope. This is where I think the government is going in the wrong direction. I would like to quote here the Bank of Finland’s exit today, which said: ‘In the decision-making process at home, it is possible to live in parallel with two times. At the same time as combating the acute crisis, ideas need to be strongly focused on the post-crisis economic challenges." So action — not just hope. So far, government action has meant deferred employment measures and tax increases, both today and tomorrow. Mr Vestman has already told me very well in public today: 1000 euros less for a normal, middle-income family. Is this how this country gets up? That's the question. By punishing work and entrepreneurship, by raising taxes? And those taxes, with these measures, will only be increased even further. The question for the future is who pays for comprehensive schools, pensions, asphalted roads, if working and entrepreneurship are not worthwhile in Finland. I strongly hope that the government will now take action and not rely solely on the fact that there is enough hope to build a better tomorrow. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u215	Mr President! I'm glad to hear you're here. Myllykoski shares the view that these electricity transmission prices must now finally be put under control. And it is just as Mrs Myllykoski pointed out that the hardest of all is the low-income electricity-heated Finns who are completely at the mercy of the network company in that area. This is because, unlike that share of electricity, the electricity transmission network company cannot be competitive — because it is a natural monopoly and competition in those electricity networks can never function for that reason. That is why we need the strict regulation of prices. And, as has been said, both public, municipal-owned network companies and private network companies have been responsible for these price increases. A record price increase has been made by a network company owned by the municipalities of Savo, which has increased the basic fee by 85 per cent over four years. Not that one. In fact, a pensioner living in Hirvensalmi would have been helped at all by the fact that Fortum's distribution networks had not been sold because this pensioner's electricity network company, a network company owned by municipalities, would still have made these price increases, which we have now seen. That is why it is the right solution to change that model of price control. For some reason, however, the government has already three times postponed bringing this proposal to Parliament. For the first time in the spring, on the basis of corona, the second time in the autumn — it had to come here in accordance with the legislative plan at week 42 — and now for the third time the Minister Lintilä promised there would be a performance here at the beginning of November, but it still doesn't come out. I hope that the government will now do a careful job and bring a truly impressive model to Parliament's deliberations, and that is what is in place. It is the transfer price cutter that we have already made available to the government in the spring, that is, more than six months ago. As has been said, it is a model supported by expert professors, and it is now backed by a citizens' initiative that has collected more than 50,000 signatures, which therefore corresponds in substance to this transfer price model presented by the assembly. This is a way that does not burden public finances, but our model can help ease the situation of Finns, curb them transfer prices, even improve purchasing power. With this model of ours, for certain network companies, the price level would even fall.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u216	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Vestman, this was also a very good and analytical speech in itself, but of course it is not worth remembering history now, and there is no point in digging up skeletons or doing anything else to open graves as far as this has all come from in the past. This is the idea of a single storm, from which we started to have fixed nets. And the then Ministerial Party delegation made these proposals, and we were also in that government as a left-wing coalition. Minister Arhinmäki was the only one who opposed this Fortum trade, that this kind of Caruna-kessi was made possible. But I think it is very important that we can now discuss what will happen in the future and how we can react to this present situation, and in that sense the views of the Assembly are in the right direction and must be taken up. It may not be possible to say if we are making a new carunat with regard to Vapo. Is it the case that the monopoly network is being sold again so that then we citizens pay for the French venture capital company to come and collect profits by raising heating prices? All in all, however, I would say that it is important to raise the issue of how we can think about this together so that we can now build up the tools so that this agreement, which we have here in this Chamber, can be achieved in the next government's programme when it comes to the next government, so that this will actually be addressed. This is completely incomprehensible that those small pensioners are in a state of distress that they have no chance of even protesting about transfer prices. Electricity consumption can be 10 per cent or 20 per cent, so that only by saving to cool can you get off with a smaller electricity bill. That is what we need to address, and I believe that this is the view of this Parliament that something needs to be done, and now it really needs to be done between us. Parliament is the place where we can give this government and the future government the earrings — well, not really the earrings, but now we have to make straight tracks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u217	Mr President! During this debate, Mr Myllykoski said that he did not want to remember the old or open the old tombs, but he did so anyway. In other words, you are quite right that the Left Alliance was against the sale of these networks at the time, but so you are always categorically opposed to any sale of state ownership. In other words, sometimes even when you are opposed to everything, it is worth acknowledging, because it really is a network monopoly that is actually money-laundering and hidden taxing people. I am extremely familiar with these electricity bills and transport bills described by Mrs Myllykoski in Kainuu, which gives me a huge amount of people to contact me in which they send their own bills. These electricity transmission prices, of course, are quite blatant in relation to electricity consumption. It is therefore quite honest to acknowledge that the regulation of network companies in this respect has been a flagrant failure. I think it is essential to note that quite a few representatives here at the end of the day will have to offer an increase of up to EUR half a billion in people's purchasing power with a single bill, but here a fine colleague, Mrs Vestman, happens to find one. And if there was a will here, then it would definitely be worth putting this into practice quickly, because that would be the best corona resuscitation for this moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u218	Mr President! I would like to say briefly — when Mrs Myllykoski said that we should give guidelines to the next government — that we should not dwell on this matter any further and sit on our hands. This issue of transfer prices must be resolved by this Parliament. There is a solution. These payments run every day, and that means not only that electricity is transferred, but also the money from the pocket of Finnish consumers to the pockets of the owners of the network company. This needs to be addressed now. There is a ready-made model, and it is now up to the government whether the government is either prepared to bring in an effective solution of this kind or to support the resolution of the Convention and the citizens' initiative here in Parliament. Such an option is quite possible, and I even encourage the government parties to do so now, that if, despite promises, the government is not able to bring this effective solution, then the matter will be taken up here in Parliament in the form of a legislative initiative and a citizens' initiative, and once there is a state of will, then it will be resolved in that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u219	Mr President! The constructive opposition policy is precisely that of offering alternatives, and not only does the coalition work in this whole area of electricity transmission — on which the coalition has presented an overall solution for the government’s use — but we have also offered our own options for the whole budget, namely making our own alternative budget in a credible, constructive way, which would genuinely be an alternative to the policies and priorities that the government has decided to adopt in its own budget. This debate has shown on many occasions — but perhaps in summary at this end — that this is certainly a very exceptional draft budget for next year. The interest-rate crisis has led to exceptional fiscal indebtedness, which is also exceptionally well justified by this crisis situation and its conditions. At a time when even debt is justified to revive Finland in order to lift Finland out of this corona crisis and the economic crisis it causes, it should also be possible to look ahead and make decisions to ensure that Finland is moving in a better direction and that we get up from here in a sustainable way. Many of us in this Chamber have in recent weeks dealt with budget proposals for next year in their own towns and cities, and we are well aware of the challenges that have already been faced in the municipal economy in principle. Now they have been exacerbated by the corona crisis, and the decisions taken by the government — the only structural decisions that the government has so far decided to take forward — are mainly those which are making the already difficult situation even worse. It is well known that the economy is already under pressure, especially in the municipalities concerned, or for example. Instead of making such structural changes, which make the economic situation difficult, even damaging to employment, structural reforms would be needed to solve the structural problems that were evident in Finland even before this corona crisis entered the country. In these respects, therefore, this current interest rate crisis has also seemed to be an excuse for the government to move the decision-making process forward, the necessary decisions for Finland — to be
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u220	Mr President! Now I really disagree very much with the honourable Member: yes, the crisis must be dealt with, and on its side we must also make it possible for us to proceed according to the plan of the government programme. If we fail to deal with what we have in our hands, it means that the crisis is becoming a crisis, and in that sense we should not ignore what is the truth. In fact, I have to apologise, in a way, for taking the floor, with Mr Heikkinen’s first speech, but I have already forgotten the reasons on which I would have disagreed with him, because then Mr Vestman took this debate there, which is very important to me. But in the final analysis, which was not used in the actual speech, this government has now taken the decision that we should not leave third-sector players out of the ground, but that we in the social sector, in the sports and sports sectors, should be able to secure those activities for next year. And, of course, race sports and horse hobby, that's all, the whole sector that goes into it, and even the Finnish horse: it's important that it has now been taken into account so that we don't cut from there, but we can make it possible to continue next year and then maybe plan together how we'll take steps forward. So let's not drop anyone down the stairs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u221	Thank you, and the general discussion... Oh, there's Congressman Sirén. — Representative Sirén, turn on the microphone and the others will hear.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u222	Mr President! This is the time for all the speeches to start by making sure that they do, and now they do. President! I felt it necessary to say that we agree with Mrs Myllykoski, whom I very much appreciate, on this particular point. Of course, the acute crisis must be dealt with. I do not think that anyone will disagree with that in this Chamber or outside this Chamber. And for this reason, debt recovery is also justified. The treatment of the interest-rate crisis is currently acute and on the top of all of us. But at the same time we must be able to look to the future even after this crisis. And that is our objective that we should not just be overshadowed by this crisis, but that we should see what measures we are taking to ensure that Finland goes for the better. After the crisis, we will rebuild Finland in a sustainable growth career. And these are the solutions we call for; those are the solutions the Finns expect. How to secure the opportunities for entrepreneurship in Finland, how to create new jobs in Finland, how to enable sustainable growth? These are the solutions that this draft budget would have allowed the government to bring forward and take forward, but they have been moved forward. Instead, in this alternative budget as well as in the alternative budget presented a year ago, the Coalition Party has produced a number of concrete proposals to find sustainable solutions to Finland’s sustainability deficit, Finland’s structural challenges. Representative Myllykoski also brought up Veikkaus. It is probably a subject worthy of its own debate, but it has also been said jointly by the government that it will not change the monopoly position of Veikkaus. If we really want not only to safeguard the operating conditions of these beneficiaries but also to combat the gambling handicaps of problem players who, for the most part, finance the work to which the representative referred, we should also be able to talk about the whole structure which: It's all around the bet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u223	Mr President! During this debate, Mr Myllykoski used a rhetoric similar to what I often encounter in the speeches of Minister of Science and Culture Saariko, which means that the government's ranks seem to be often spoken of as a winning asset. This is not entirely true in that it would be more truthful to talk about losing money because someone has always lost it in slot machines. No one's gonna win those games. In the long run, it is always loss-making for the player. An algorithm a player can never win. That is why I would like to see this debate gradually move in the direction that we are primarily concerned about the two per cent that play as much as 50 per cent of this loss of money. These people are very typically disadvantaged, unemployed, laid off, yet people: someone’s brother, someone’s child, someone’s sister, mother, father. They are suffering from a very deep problem which is still being treated in this society, and unfortunately in this House too, in a particularly cold way, because there is primarily concern about the beneficiaries or traders or the seats on the political board. Only a few here seem to pay attention to how many Finns may suffer from an invisible but miserable disease, or gambling problem, on the surface. I would like to see more attention paid to this language in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u224	Mr President! Finally, it has to be said that by removing the monopoly of Veikkaus, if that is the aim of the coalition, these representatives will be: There is nothing we can do to deal with the problems raised by Heikkinen. The money flows abroad and we do not have the resources to deal with these matters. If that's the way of the Coalition Party, just keep it for yourself. We're not gonna be friends in this relationship.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u225	Mr President! This is where Mr Myllykoski asks what is the way in which the majority is represented in gambling policy. The way of the coalition is simply that we are primarily interested in reducing the risk of gambling, in reducing gambling problems in Finland, and that fewer and fewer people would suffer from the serious problems and consequences of reckless gambling. In practical terms, this means that we must be prepared to reduce the target of entry for Veikkaus. Otherwise, we won't be able to get people to play less. We must consider and head resolutely move in the direction of transferring slot machines, these high-dependence gaming machines, from the windboxes to the controlled gaming halls. After all, today a regular gas station looks like a casino in the eyes of a Westerner when you go to it when you may have eight gaming machines in a row. It does not change the policy of the bet that a couple of planes should be deducted from there, if there are still six left there, it will not reduce the risk of gambling. So let's put people who suffer from gambling problems first and reduce the role of bet in this regard in the state budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u226	Mr President! Just as Mr Heikkinen said — the question is that if you want to solve a whole, you should be prepared to discuss all the key areas that are involved in that whole. It has now seemed to be the policy of the government to go ahead with some more extensive reforms, as it were, but then, as a matter of principle, it is agreed that we will not talk about this central block at all in this reform. If we want to reform gambling policy, it would certainly require a willingness to discuss the role and role of Veikkaus as part of the whole and not a prior agreement that: The position of the bet has been betonized and will not be affected, even if the policy of the game is otherwise being reformed. The same applies, for example, to the reform of family leave, in which, in principle, it was agreed that there would be no significant changes to the allowance for home care. It is, as it were, a block as part of this whole which is not to be addressed in the context of the reform. That, in principle, makes it completely impossible for the reform to be effective and ambitious.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u227	Mr President! I promise you this will be my last speech in this section. But you have to wonder how you can think in a meeting that if every gaming machine in Finland were closed, the gambling problems would be eliminated. I agree that it is a threshold, even if now we compare the use of drugs, the gate theory, and enable it. Of course, I would like them to bring low-money games, such as bingo, back to those machines that are already subject to a charge. It would be a social event so that these pensioners, to whom it is a unique day event, meet people like themselves, not necessarily gambling addicts, but it is their only social contact. It would be particularly important for us to make it possible and not to exclude that social contact. As far as the machines are concerned, I fully agree with you, because I have personal experience with the family circle of what it does. I've been through it, not personally, but still. I do not think it makes sense for you to take the line that everything should be removed. The Internet offers all the possibilities. If the monopoly of the bet is taken away, it means that there is nothing for us. And in that sense, I would ask you to be precise about how you bring this matter up. Breaking the monopoly of the bet with your model certainly does not remove the gambling problem in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u228	Let us now begin the discussion of the sections of the budget. Presentation of Section 29 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Education and Culture At this stage, a maximum of 2 hours shall be reserved for the general discussion in the section. The debate will be opened by the section president, Mr Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u229	Mr President! As chairman of the Section for Education and Science of the Committee on Finance, I would like to present the contribution of the Ministry of Finance to the budget report. Of course, the most important innovation in the administrative sector is the extension of compulsory education. Other important content is many development projects related to early childhood education and basic education and vocational training. However, my role is not to present the whole budget proposal of OKM, and we have had some discussions on these over the autumn. My proposal is limited to the additions made by the Committee on Finance in the order of one and a half per mil. The total for the section of OKM is EUR 7012 million and the Committee on Finance proposes, within its own limits, an increase of EUR 10.46 million. I will give you details of the additions, because then, for each addition, you can ask yourself which representative of the government is drawn on the very face of this addition. The committee will increase the amount of EUR 500000 to promote the literacy project in order to ensure the completion of the national literacy strategy as planned and to enable the permanent literacy programme to be launched at national level. The committee proposes an increase of EUR 1 million in continuing training for teachers and in equal opportunities and equal opportunities. In this context, EUR 300000 is also proposed to strengthen peace work and global education. The committee is pleased that the government is proposing EUR 300,000 to improve the security of the Jewish congregation. This increase does not therefore have to be made this year at the parliamentary stage, but instead EUR 30000 is proposed for the activities of the Federation of Freethinkers to promote freedom of religion and belief, as this year. The Committee stresses the importance of education institutions in liberal education, for example, in updating basic and digital skills. The committee will add EUR 1900000 to adult education centres and folk high schools in order to promote continuous learning. The committee also expects that next year, in the supplementary budget, the government will take into account the resource needs of immigrant education in educational institutions for liberal education. EUR 1205000 will be added to the state grants of the organisations. More money is provided by women's organisations, household advisory organisations such as the Centre of Agricultural and Household Women, the Marttaliitto and Finlands svenska Marthaförbund, the Association of Karelia, the Critical University of Karelia, the Finnish Schools and the Remote School of Traveller and Nomadskolan maintained by the People's Education Society. The committee added EUR 600000 to the National Museum of Natural Sciences, which has a critical financial situation. In addition, the committee proposes that the Parliament's statement that the financing base of the Museum of Natural Sciences should be strengthened in order to ensure that the museum operates on a sustainable basis. The committee also added 250,000 to the Aalto University, which will be directed to Helsinki GSE for research to provide up-to-date information as a basis for decision-making on the situation of the various social sectors, taking into account, among other things, a situation such as the corona virus. The committee added EUR 220000 to the research on indoor air diseases to the TROSSI individual at the University of Turku. The committee added EUR 1 million to the development of a common e-library for public libraries. The second million euro for a two-year project must be taken into account in the 2022 budget. The committee added EUR 1400000 for the continuation of the Art Testers, EUR 1 million for the consolidation of the exhibition fee model. The exhibition fee is compensation to the artist for the work that has been done in front of his own museum exhibition. A total of EUR 505000 was allocated by the committee to projects such as the rehabilitation of the war compensation vessel Vega in Pietarsaari, Väinö Linna Society for the digitisation of the archive and the production of a short document, the renewal of a wooden bridge of cultural historical value in the town of Lemmensilta in Haapajärvi, the operation of the Rajaton Art Association, the organisation of Vaskiviikko in Lieksa, the work of the St.Swedish Strömfors Museum, the development of a virtual museum centre in Järvenpää,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u230	Mr President! Thank you to the management of the section, Mr Kiviranta, for the presentation, and thank you also very much for the solutions that have emerged in cooperation with Parliament's section, which perfectly complements the overall proposal presented to Parliament by the Government as part of its own budget dispute resolution. This package of details agreed by Parliament will perhaps further reinforce the shortcomings and priorities that the Government itself had in its entirety. Perhaps, Mr President, I would like to make a few main points in support of the debate and inform Members of Parliament: I think the 21st draft budget is positive in the big picture, painting in the Ministry of Science and Culture sector. It includes a whole new, permanent funding, which is certainly a subject on which few people in this Chamber disagree, EUR 14.5 million in funding for the so-called Finnish model, i.e. a hobby for every child and young person as part of the municipal tasks, and there are great pilots on the move and soon to be launched in various parts of Finland. The Ministry received a lot of applications and EUR 10 million in pilot money. Let's look at the best practices, how the Finnish model becomes reality in very different everyday lives of children and young people, long distances in Finland, where, on the one hand, there is a shortage of adults as a hobby leader, and, on the other hand, in areas where, for example, there is concern about home background and lack of wealth. That is precisely what this equal right to exercise was all about, for example, sports or art hobbies, this Finnish model, is meant to aim at. Another big issue with huge long implications is that it has been decided to fully compensate for the fall in gambling profits for next year. It affects the entire administrative sector that we are discussing here today in the field of science and culture, the whole sports life of Finns, the entire youth work, all culture and a lot of science. As a detail, I would also like to point out from my area of responsibility for student support that the student meal allowance will be increased. Mr President! If I continue to evaluate this budget for next year, particularly through the report of the Committee on Finance. In my opinion, it highlights a number of important issues: continuing training for teachers, promoting literacy, which is one of my favourite themes, as well as Mr Andersson's, and an important issue for the children and the future of Finland. You also raised the issue of the permanentisation of the exhibition fee model, which will otherwise be announced this week as the launch of the preparatory working group, that is to say, this will be promoted by the Ministry. You, too, will stress, certainly, precisely in relation to this situation of profit margins, the importance of the work of organisations and the third sector, and not least at the time of the interest rate, what it has meant. The report also highlights and highlights the need to secure the funding of the Museum of Natural History, which is the museum next to the Parliament, which is at the University of Helsinki, and which, by the way, has also been the subject of a solution at the end of the ministry. While I say positive and far-reaching solutions, both on the basis of the committee's report and on the entire draft budget, the uncertainty and concern about future funding will inevitably be present in this debate. It is certainly not possible to fully compensate this large sector for the proceeds from gambling, the entire pool of betting profits, which are therefore beyond the limits of the administrative sector other than what is now in the debate. In full, it will no longer be possible from 22 C.E. That's why the Erkki we appreciate and know a lot of people. The working group led by Mr Liikanen is now making alternative proposals to the government for longer-term solutions on how these sector funding can be secured. Mr President! Of course, the specific impact of the interest rate on this whole field must also be mentioned again. Up to now, culture has been supported by EUR 110 million, physical activity by EUR 20 million, and support has also been provided through the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. It seems that the corona will be prolonged and we need a new aid package. The need is obvious. Preparations for this have been launched last week, and a long-term solution alongside it will be to get things moving again in a safe way. Finally, I would like to point out from another set of responsibilities, in terms of higher education and research, that Finland's sustainable growth programme is a huge opportunity for research and education. As we look from this fog towards the light, we are already living in Finland after the corona. In these sectors, funding of between EUR 400 million and EUR 500 million has been estimated, but there are other places for funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u231	Secretary Andersson, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u232	Mr President! There has never been a time in this country when decision-makers have had to regret their investment in education and knowledge. On the contrary, education and high levels of competence are the most important factor behind Finland’s success and equality. I am proud that, despite this global pandemic, our government will continue to strengthen and develop Finnish education. Now there is also an acute need for these efforts, because we know that the epidemic has also had a very significant impact on the learning and well-being of children and young people. Our commitment to this choice of values is also reflected in the draft budget for 2021, where we make new and significant investments in education and education. Next year's budget proposal also includes the historic compulsory education reform adopted today, aimed at raising Finland's level of competence, increasing educational equality and securing a secondary degree for every young person. In the future, no one will have to stop studying at secondary school or professional level or think about their learning choices because of the high cost of teaching materials. The budget proposal also includes additional funding to promote the quality, equality and well-being of early childhood education and education, to expand hobby activities and to extend student and student care. We also propose substantial increases in vocational and upper secondary school education. The Government will also continue three-year development projects to improve the quality and equality of early childhood education and basic education with the aim of improving the learning outcomes of children and young people and reducing inequalities. I also very much welcome the fact that the committee has also made important additions in its own decision-making, which will be a great complement to this budget for next year, including these contributions to literacy and teacher training. A total of EUR 50 million will be allocated to the quality and equality of early childhood education next year. The programme develops a three-step support model and pilots two-year pre-school education. Next year, customer fees for early childhood education will also be reduced by EUR 70 million, which will significantly improve the position of families with children with low and middle incomes. In addition to this, we are also preparing and developing support suitable for early childhood education and bringing it into legislation with EUR 15 million of permanent funding. The quality and equality programme for basic education, on the other hand, strengthens educational equality, supports teaching and strengthens the quality of basic education. The project aims to address, inter alia, the differentiation of learning outcomes, to strengthen support for learning and the quality of education, to initiate committed community work in schools and to support flexible and individual transitions in early years. Funding for student and student care will also be strengthened next year. A total of 10 million will be set aside for next year and will amount to EUR 29 million in 2023, which is therefore intended to provide binding dimensions for these services for basic education and secondary education. Further funding will also be allocated to upper secondary school and vocational education next year. In the field of upper secondary school education, a quality programme for upper secondary school education will be launched, and investments will be continued on the vocational side, including additional salaries for teachers and instructors. In total, the Government will invest EUR 250 million during this Government's term in improving vocational education and training through the strengthening of these teaching and pilot resources. Mr President! In working life today and in the future, everyone needs to be able to update their skills in line with changing needs. The Government also invests EUR 40 million in continuous learning. This funding is intended to focus in particular on developing the skills of the working-age population, strengthening the skills of those with low basic skills and facilitating the employment of older people. This is to ensure that more and more people have access to continuous learning throughout life. As a whole, next year's draft budget provides excellent opportunities for developing Finnish education. The measures and funding we propose reduce inequalities between children and young people and increase the conditions for equal education and training from early childhood education to the completion of secondary education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u233	Now we are going to start the debatable part immediately, that is to say, I would ask those Members who wish to make a reply, to stand up and to press the V button on the floor for themselves. — This debate will be initiated by Mr Eloranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u234	Mr President! The exhibition fee is compensation to the artist for the work done in building the museum exhibition. It improves the artist’s livelihood and employment in his own work. The exhibition fee system has been developed for a long time, and I am very pleased that the Committee on Finance is now proposing its EUR 1 million for next year in order to consolidate the system. So I ask the Minister: how quickly can we complete this reform? In the opinion of the Committee on Finance, we also drew attention to the need to improve the social security of artists and to increase the number of artist pensions. It is important to improve the social security of artists, as few artists earn wages, unemployment benefit or similar income. It is therefore important to close these gaps in social security. One of these is the shortcomings and development needs related to the mediation of copyright compensation and unemployment benefit. This is certainly not a matter for the Minister for Culture, but has the government discussed how to correct these shortcomings?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u235	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to thank you. The extension of the mobile school programme, and also this hobby guarantee and its implementation, are very welcome for children, especially during these corona periods, but also elsewhere. As a former teacher, investment in education and skills is always more than welcome to me, and I hope for more personal attention. I would also like to wish Mr Andersson good luck and good parental leave after this debate. Finally, I would like to highlight Minister Saarikko's contribution to the problem of gambling returns. That gap will be about 300 million next year, which will be born out of the billion, but what is your view, by what means will you be able to guarantee that even the billion will be drawn close to it in 2022 to 2023 and beyond?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u236	Mr President! In the big picture, learning differences and exclusion raise their heads in Finland. The well-being of children and young people has not developed favourably in all respects. Education in Finland must be something we do not compromise on. Problems must now be prioritised. The learning gap between boys and girls has increased significantly. The groups in basic education are far too large, learning environments are not suitable for many children, and teachers, special teachers and other student care, such as psychologists and curators, are too few, and there is no help available quickly on a low threshold. I would like to ask: since there is a lot of this kind of fragmentation of funding, will these funds continue, which are now only temporary?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u237	Madam President! In regions around Finland, there is a need for skilled workers. We need experts, even though we are now talking more about unemployment than training because of the interest rate. However, we should be able to anticipate. The Centre has highlighted and will continue to maintain investment in vocational education and training, increases in educational places and the ability to go to school. I would like to thank you very much for this package of 270 million, almost one third of which goes to guidance and quality development in vocational education and training. Contract negotiations at universities should certainly be developed in such a way as to increase anticipation, for there is a crying shortage of electrical engineers in my area, for example, and this requires expertise. Minister, how can we do to meet the challenge of skilled labour and to anticipate training in order to improve some specific measures so that we can move this issue forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u238	Madam President! What I am particularly pleased about is that there will finally be a model of three-step support for early childhood education and a two-year pre-school experiment. We've been waiting a long time for these. They will enable us to identify and find better and earlier those young children who need support in their learning. Providing support in a more timely manner improves children's ability not only to learn but also to survive in their lives and in the future. Significant funding will be allocated to the level and quality of early childhood education for next year. For us Greens it is an important and important issue and an important investment in the future. The reduction in early childhood education fees also contributes to increasing participation of children in early childhood education, which strengthens not only the equality between children but also the overall well-being of the child and the family.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u239	Mr President! It is a great thing that the government has continued to reduce early childhood education fees on the basis of the entry into force of the Convention. The Coalition Party would have reduced customer fees for early childhood education even more, with a total of EUR 100 million. This is EUR 30 million more than the government's discount. Secondly, Mr President, I am concerned about the consequences of extending the under-resourced compulsory education of the government. This sub-resource will lead to cuts in education in municipalities and, for example, to an increase in group sizes. Although the funding was made more pre-eminence, it is likely that it is still totally under-estimated, especially in the early stages of implementation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, I have little doubt that I have before me all your requests for answers. I would ask you again to stand up so that I can see who has asked to speak here. Most of them had asked, admittedly, but there were new ones here. - And now let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u241	Mr President! Thank you very much and congratulations to Minister Li Andersson for Education and also to Minister Saarikko. Today is an important historic day: the compulsory education law has been adopted, and the President of the United States Biden's choice has been confirmed, so tonight I'm gonna make the President's coffee and have two cups, one for the student duty and the other for the Biden. This is a big deal. It'll beat itself through in a few years. You will see, the political right, that it has been done for the benefit of children and young people, to strengthen their social and human position. This is not new that the right is opposed to it, but I have been terribly disappointed that this Christian attitude is simply incomprehensible. They say that the resources are now being allocated too late. It is always the right time to try to get thousands of young people to continue their studies and complete a degree. This also involves strengthening guidance in secondary school, in the 8th and 9th grade,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u242	This went by 1.36, and it was my mistake, too, that it was a bit long. — Next, Mr Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u243	Madam President! There are some disturbing news from vocational schools in the sense that even before the corona — unfortunately, when local education has been greatly reduced — there have been young people who do not want to be hired by companies because they do not have the skills they need. I think this is a very big problem. This is also true of what has been said here earlier, that these training places have been added to vocational education and training, for example, in the need to find a local workforce in different sectors, but this does not seem to be the case if young people who graduate from vocational schools do not master these skills. The second point in this connection is that I believe that the responsibility of state education policy is to try to ensure that the right sectors have the right number of employees, i.e. at the starting points of education and others. I've been wondering if it would be possible for high school students, abies, to serve such lists of college places.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u244	Madam President! First of all, I would like to say that it is wonderful that this government has restored to every child the subjective right to early education, which was abolished by the last government. In addition, it is great that early childhood education fees are reduced. It is also extremely good to see that education is now being invested in, as a result of the historic cuts in vocational education and training during the last parliamentary term. But history has been made and it has been achieved during this reign: today we have decided to extend compulsory education, which is an extremely important measure. It is an important step in raising the level of our education and skills, but also in the long term from the point of view of our employment. I would like to thank the government for the fact that this is certainly one of the most pro-child and family governments in history, particularly on a concrete level. Now that there is concern that there has been under-resourced, however, you are not in a position to accept the billions that are now being proposed to support municipalities in the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u245	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank both ministers. You are doing a very important and wonderful job for Finnish civilisation. The reform of compulsory education is an important reform aimed at raising the level of education and skills and improving educational equality. Mr Koponen also mentioned the differences in learning and exclusion, which are genuine and right concerns, and that is why there is also a desire to extend compulsory education. The opposition has become a lot of suggestions that investments should be made in, among other things, comprehensive school. When I consider this question, I would like to ask Mr Andersson: how has the government invested in comprehensive school? And actually, ministers Andersson and Saarikko,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u246	Mr President! The reduction in early childhood education fees next year and its extension from the previous government period is a very welcome step, and we are in favour of this, as well as the start of a two-year experiment in pre-school education. Of course, it would have been our wish that instead of permanently extending compulsory education from the upper end, it should have been extended from the lower end, as is now being done in this experiment. I believe that the impact of the experiment will be positive — it was already seen in the last period of free early childhood education for five-year-olds. Mr President! My concern, however, is about how the resources in the municipalities are now sufficient, when the appropriations for compulsory education are not sufficient, especially at the beginning of the reform. The money will then have to be taken from somewhere else, when the same applies a little to this reduction in early childhood education contributions, which was compensated for in the case of corporate tax revenue and not through central government contributions, in which case it would have been targeted at municipalities with these early childhood education ages of 0 to 6 years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u247	Madam President! Since the beginning, the Marin government has been very positive in education and education. Therefore, more resources have also been made available for matters that affect children and young people, such as early childhood education and the whole educational path, and this extension of compulsory education is then an historic act. But the long distance course of the spring following the corona has been estimated to have contributed to a poor degree of polarisation and well-being between children. Among other things, the skills of parents in digital and language skills are very different, and the opportunities for supporting children in school vary considerably. There has been a learning deficit, and the number of children experiencing loneliness and anxiety has also increased during the spring, and this has caused problems. Is there any way of doing this — or is it, but I would like to hear from the Minister what?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u248	Madam President! Thank you both, Minister of Education, for your commendable work. It is great that EUR 1 million will be allocated to further training for teachers in the spirit of continuous learning. Competences renew working life and working life skills. It is great that we are carrying out a continuous learning reform so that everyone has the knowledge, skills and skills needed for employment and a meaningful life. EUR 40 million had been earmarked for this, and then EUR 1.9 million had been earmarked for education and training in civilised education, including digital skills. I would like to ask the Minister whether funding for immigrant education has been ensured in the area of free civilised work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u249	Madam President! It is good that the government is indeed continuing to reduce the fees for early childhood education and, among other things, to promote the literacy skills that were started during the last term of government. On the part of municipalities, however, it is necessary to say that the second free level leads to cuts in education. We do not need to prioritise them here in the Chamber, but many colleagues will then prioritize them in the council halls in the coming and future years. There has also been feedback from the field throughout this year that educational reforms will no longer be carried out in good interaction and cooperation with the field. This was used to in the previous period when Minister Grahn-Laasonen prepared amisreform, among other things, for a couple of years. Hopefully next year we'll get things right. The current state of affairs is only a way towards a better, more transparent and more constructive culture of cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u250	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Inledningsvis vill jag rikata ett stort tag till båda ministrarna för det fina arbete som ni gör för finländarnas bildning och välmående. I dag har riksdagen godkänt den utvidgade läroplikten så den blir av — ett stort och historiskt beslut — och i budgeten finns reservat medel för det. Sedan finns också medel reservat för försöket till den TVåspråkiga förskolan. Den au regeringen satsar på barn och ungas utbildning på alla stadier. Det finns också satsningar på fritidssektorn bland you give, och vi har faktiskt nu dissaterat en hel del kring att lasa, skriva och säkna, basfärdigheter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u251	Mr President! This time I will focus on the section, which is what I think we have made important priorities. We had just over 10 million in use, and a significant part of it went to culture, so that we put a million in libraries to promote digitalisation, a million in the exhibition fee — it was especially pleasing to me, because when I was Minister of Culture for some time, I put this in the very beginning, this was also very important to me — and so we invested in children and young people getting into the reading hobby and having children go hand-in-hand with art and culture, that is, Artistic Testers. These are all, in my view, value choices for the future, and that is why I welcome them. And equally, ministers, I am delighted that I received today
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u252	Madam President! On the other hand, I am concerned about this increase in compulsory education, because we are different. Some people may not want to go to school for that long, some might want to study for a profession, even with apprenticeship training. However, this apprenticeship is a very good and excellent option for certain sectors. Has the government now considered what options and possibilities could be increased with regard to this apprenticeship?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u253	Madam President! This extension of compulsory education has been mentioned as historic by colleagues and, of course, we must hope that there will also be no historical error. It has also been suggested by experts that this extension of compulsory education in the way that is now being carried out constitutes an obvious threat to the upper secondary schools of small localities. And the very special strength of the Finnish education system has, of course, been the best comprehensive school in the world, which has given us the opportunity in recent decades that everyone around Finland has been able to study as far as they have been able, hard and motivated. If this reform now endangers the small areas of upper secondary school education, there will also be an obvious threat to the teaching of upper secondary school subjects if there is not enough hours for teachers in practical school life. How does the government ensure that upper secondary schools in small localities for this reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u254	Chairman! Perhaps we can continue with this same impulse: and make sure that there are enough of those high school places in the big cities? I, too, would like to thank the ministers for their good work, but there is always something small to improve. The success of integration is critical in many ways. We need more skilled workers and well-being people. One of the objectives of the strategy that has just been completed for continuous learning will be to take better account of these under-represented groups and weak basic skills, of which foreigners are one group. That is why I would like to raise the committee's statement, which specifically concerns the resource needs of immigrant education. 900 students of literacy have been used as a base number there, with a current demand of over 5,000.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u255	Madam President! I too would like to thank the Ministers of Education and Culture for this historic day and for bringing reform to the finish. Extending compulsory education is indeed a significant improvement in the daily lives of Finnish young people and families, as equality in education is strengthened in many ways. However, this reform has been criticised and it has been suggested that aid should only be targeted at those pupils who already have problems, and not on everyone in general. How do you respond to such criticism, Minister Andersson?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u256	Mr President! I too would like to thank both ministers for this work. But this list, which the Committee on Finance has also done, is also delightful in view of the support of organizations: Organisations have been mentioned here, such as the support of NGOs for development cooperation, the activities of peace-making organisations, the Human Rights Union, the Refugee Advice Centre, the fight against violence against women and global education organisations. That's great! That's great! That's great! In a shrinking world, this global education and peace work is most important. But domestic work is also important, and I also underline here the support received by the Federation of Karelia. Homework is particularly important for those who have lost their homeland, and we need to recognize that the Karelian Federation works in this wonderful spirit of cooperation. Peace raising, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u257	Mr President! As part of the Ministry of Finance's employment methods, officials suggested that the income thresholds for student aid should be increased by 50%. Work in addition to studies has a number of good effects. Employers appreciate the sectoral work experience of a newly graduated student, and networking with other employees is also extremely important in the modern labour market. Why, Mr Government, do you not allow hard-working students freedom to work for their own future and allow them to achieve a higher standard of living with their own work? At the meeting, we propose that the income limits for student aid be increased by 50%. According to various estimates, this has been estimated to strengthen public finances by up to EUR 6 million. My question is: in this billion-dollar blindness, has the government forgotten these million-dollar things?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u258	Mr President! This year, it has become very painful when you can't face or see someone else, and of course it's especially important for children and young people who learn, grow and develop in interaction with each other and with the support of adults. I think that it is up to us as decision-makers to ensure that adults have time for children and young people in the daily lives of educational institutions, so that everyone can easily and timely support their needs. It is very welcome that we now have a binding staffing system for school psychologists and curators, but binding dimensions in the field of education in general would ensure that the needs of young people are met and that adults are able to cope with everyday life and that no one’s burden or load is too great. I would like to ask Minister Andersson: would it be possible to launch preparatory or study work on the staffing of the education sector in the wider context of this term of government?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u259	Mr President! The Museum of Natural History, a former Museum of Animals, is located right near the corner of Arkadiankatu and Nervanderinkatu in a colonial building, where cadet school has been used in time, and many of us in rural schools remember it from their field trips. However, it has now been said that its financial base is at risk, and the committee also draws attention to this issue in its statement. You, Minister Saarikko, told us that this is a very familiar matter in the Ministry. Could you open up a little bit? Do you have any plans yet to deal with this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u260	Now we are going to take ministerial speeches from both sides, and three minutes for both ministers. Who's gonna start?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u261	Mr President! A lot of good questions and comments, let's try to go over as many as we can. Firstly, in relation to this funding of compulsory education: Of course, at the implementation stage, in accordance with the will of Parliament, this adequacy of funding will be closely monitored and evaluated. But for those who now have serious doubts, I would like to stress that excellent cooperation has been made here with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities throughout the preparation process. The differences between the Association of Local Government and the Ministry have been narrowed all the time and were now at the end of the period only around EUR 10 million, which can be compared, for example, to the difference between the Association of Local Government and the Ministry's views on the cost implications of vocational education reform during the last parliamentary term, when the difference was more than EUR 270 million. However, I do not remember hearing such concerns about the adequacy of municipal funding or the impact of this difference on the quality of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u264	Minister Saarikko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u265	Mr President! I share the view expressed here that this is a significant day in the history of Finnish civilisation policy, and the time will tell whether we, as a generation of decision-makers, were the one who was able to make a reform that ended the debate on the exclusion of young people that has always come up in Parliament, or at least reduced it significantly. I have been here for the third time now, and I see that this concern has united us across party boundaries, and perhaps now there is the most important answer. Mr President! You asked me a lot of questions. I'll answer through a few major lines. Firstly, what are the main concerns, the worries for the coming year, and, on the other hand, Mr Heinonen, you asked about the winnings — these two questions are linked. We are able to help the position of Veikkaus somewhat and yet in a socially responsible way by developing the lottery law. It is the responsibility of the Home Secretary, Ohio, and that is what the negotiations are about to take place. The government has also promised that something will certainly be compensated for in the budget, and Veikkaus will continue to pay a substantial sum, there will be no empty purse from there either, but we now need some perspective from the Liikanen Group on what might be the other future sources of funding that will now be received from the Betkaus, and this work is under way. If another major concern is to be raised, that is, of course, the survival of the corona. The whole cultural, youth sport, top sports sector is now dependent on artificial respiration, and I am also concerned, especially in the cultural sector, that when the sector is based on creativity, how we maintain the prospects for the future in people, because we will need the light and knowledge of these people much after this crisis is overcome and the audiences can be gathered again. Mr Kivisaari then raised the main points in the field of education policy — this also answers the question of more than one representative. Yes, the goal of this government has been to bring peace to work in the higher education sector and a bottom-up approach to development to a wide field of higher education. We are also committed to the fact that every province has a higher education institution, we have strengthened basic funding, but also at starting points, both in strategic financing and in interest rate financing, in total so far around 10,000 starting points. It's been demolishing the applicants. I am also committed to the fact that, during this parliamentary term, we will again consider the new educational responsibilities that have now been decided on this year and which have been allocated to a number of higher education institutions specifically for sectoral and regional needs, which are at the heart of education, in other words to offer young people areas where there are prospects of employment and their careers in the coming decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u266	Do you still need to go to the debatt? Apparently a little bit, so let's just take a short debut here, so you get up with a V-button and ask for a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u267	Mr President! Today is indeed a historic day of joy when we voted in favour of the compulsory education law. Reading has to do with that, too. Last year, Parliament granted an undivided thief EUR 1.4 million on issues promoting literacy, including the preparation of a national literacy strategy. In addition to the EUR 1 million literacy money for next year's budget, it is a great pleasure that the Committee on Finance proposes EUR half a million more to promote the literacy project in order to have a permanent literacy programme in Finland. Literacy is the basis for all learning. Unfortunately, the literacy of 15-year-old young people in Finland has deteriorated, and the differences between girls and boys and regional differences have increased. It is indeed a good thing that this appropriation will enable the literacy strategy to be completed next year and will enable a permanent literacy programme to be drawn up and implemented nationally. I would like to ask the Minister: how could the literacy programme and the rest of the world take account of the growing differences in literacy, especially among girls and boys, and how can these differences be bridged and more generally improved?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u268	Madam President! I would like to thank Minister Saarikko for today's good knowledge of top sports and sports organisations. OKM divided 2.8 million into sports: Skiing Federation, Finnish Rally Championship and AKK-Motorsport, ball sports and other sports federations. It is a very important hand extension, they are in a very difficult situation. Thank you for hearing this distress call. I would like to ask you what your assessment of yesterday's and all these recent similar concerns about the music industry and the field of events is. How can we help to have our own great music, culture and events even after this crisis? And then to the end: For us, these limitations are extraordinary. Outsiders may have 300 children and adults skating, but the ice halls are closed. Could we consider, for example, the continuation of small groups in ice halls at intervals of security?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u269	Mr President! This reminds me of my previous work at Christmas, a concern about the ability of teachers to cope. We all know that this corona period has brought strong and strong additional challenges, and the educational and teaching challenges of pupils in general have increased, in some schools lay-offs, possible indoor air problems and in general the hectic everyday life of teacher work. Teachers are professionals, but often also very harsh, especially for themselves. I would like to ask the ministers: how does the administration and budget of OKM show support for the teacher's ability and well-being?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u270	Mr President! Minister Saarikko discussed how to solve the problem of social exclusion among young people. The key to the solution is to put the foundation of learning in order. Every year, as many as 6,000 young people complete comprehensive school without sufficient skills and skills for secondary education. The government's compulsory education model does not provide solutions to this fundamental problem. The Government has important one-off investments to strengthen the quality and equality of early childhood education and basic education. My question is: why are these appropriations not permanent? It is these that will strengthen the quality and effectiveness of education and training services. Let's put the foundation of learning in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u271	Mr President! I hope that this reform of compulsory education will lead us in the right direction, because the objective is a common one. We, who opposed it, may have had a different view of how to achieve it. However, one thing is disturbing me now in this reform, and that is the timetable. The Government has explained how decision-making is based on researched information. But now I think we're gambling with the schedule. Of the 38 in the Reform Observatory, 28 felt that the timetable was too tight. Similarly, almost all the experts consulted in the committee agreed with this view. I would now like to hear why all these experts were walked over.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u272	Mr President! The distance school brought by Korona and the changes and cancellations of hobbies — all of this changing from normal to normal has been difficult for many young people. The construction of the Finnish model of hobby agreed in the Government Programme will be at the Count's time. 14.5 million will be allocated to this experiment. The idea is that municipalities apply for this funding and coordinate this successful, meaningful hobby for everyone during the school afternoon or school day. I would like to ask: can all clubs and organisations and also actors in basic art education now be involved in this organisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u273	Mr President! Let me add that I will not go into any further debate about resources. I very much hope that compulsory education reform will be successful and that as few young people as possible will be left without secondary education. However, I would like to draw attention to what I think would be the real social reform that Finland would need, that is to say, to make more people move. Now, the model of hobby is a very good way of trying to influence and thank you for doing so through schools in connection with school days. I'm glad we can get it moving. But I hope that in other ways too we can get people moving. It is now very good to hear that the government is starting the work and the working group is working on how to secure this funding in the future. However, what should be taken care of in particular is that both the social welfare sector and then the education and sports sector would cooperate and preventive health care would work. I would therefore like to see more attention paid to the activities of maternity clinics in promoting physical activity. Could you, ministers, help us get a ball in the maternity kit?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u274	Madam President! It's an excellent idea from Congressman Multala. But then on the subject: I too am concerned about the school falls. The time picture is quite challenging, and the corona, the bullying of school, the violence, is a cause for concern in this hall. The challenges of learning experienced by young people have increased, as we have read from the studies as a result of the corona. Thank you, Minister Saarikko, for the model of hobby. I believe that it will help precisely what Minister Saarikko has previously stressed that every young person needs to be accompanied by an adult. Thank you, Mr Andersson, for your work against bullying at school. I am sure that will also move the matter forward. Is it not the case that, with the reform of compulsory education, we will finally receive more support and money for the joint phase of primary and secondary school? It is also good that resources have been earmarked for student tools in compulsory education reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u275	Madam President! As the Committee on Finance stated in its report, next year's draft budget does not contain any significant additions to R & D funding. The Coalition Party proposed capitalisation of universities and universities of applied sciences by one billion, and we have also proposed EUR 100 million every year to strengthen research activities in the direction of the 4% GDP target. What is the government's path to this 4%? Mr President! In this regulation, the Minister of Education raised the minimum number of hours to come. Now there is annual working time, corona, distance learning, and teachers and trainers need and need flexibility. How to set this minimum number of hours in the regulation
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u276	Madam President! Once again, I would like to thank the ministers, both ministers for an excellent budget and for these value-based decisions. I would say here to Mr Koponen: it was good to hear that you are somewhat sympathetic to this extension of compulsory education and that you wish it every success. I would like to say here that, more than a year ago, when I was at the Who Listens to the Poor Network, a mother told me of her own concerns. His daughter was then in secondary school and hoped that this extension of compulsory education and the second degree free of charge could be achieved as a matter of urgency so that her daughter too could dream of high school studies. Now I can inform this mother that her daughter can dream and live up to her own dreams, because since next autumn there will be a truly free upper secondary school education for her daughter as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u277	Madam President! It warms my mind that entrepreneurship education was funded by the Committee on Finance. We received EUR 100000 in funding for the Youth Business Village activities, and the other articles will then receive significant sums for the 4H organisation and for the promotion of young people's entrepreneurial and working life skills. Organizations do valuable work for young people, children and families. This Business Village is a game arena for working life and the economy, where ninth-graders are teamed up with the company in the whirlpools of the international market. This entrepreneurship education is a strong investment in the future: learning creativity, initiative, cooperation, interaction or skills for all work. I ask the ministers: how is entrepreneurship education, by the way?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u278	Madam President! That is where the ministers replied, so to speak, according to the main lines, and I understand, of course, that there are a lot of things and a little time to hold this debate, but I checked the figures to see if my question was not relevant. High school started 37,500 young Finns last year, so it is quite a big question. And, indeed, at that committee reading, for example, the opinion of the Education Employers made it quite clear that this threat was made clear that, with this government model, extending compulsory schooling constitutes an obvious threat to small upper secondary schools. There are many reasons why. For example, when trips become free of charge, you apply for larger upper secondary schools offering wider opportunities and so on. On the other hand, small upper secondary schools may now have specialized, for example by offering certain learning materials
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u279	Let us take one more reply, and then the ministers will take the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u280	Mr President! At the very outset, as a physiotherapist specialising in family training, I warmly support Mr Multala's proposal for this maternity package. But then into the main category itself: The concern about the family’s livelihood because of their own education must not lie on the shoulders of a young person when the pressures of studying are already great. Costs must not be an obstacle to the wishes and dreams of a young person. With the compulsory education reform, each young person now has a new opportunity to study and the financial situation of the family no longer hinders its implementation. It should be borne in mind that education is not only a way to better integrate into working life, but also an opportunity to create security for young people and thereby strengthen their well-being. Specific measures have also been needed for guidance and student care, and they are now available. My question to the Minister is: how will it be ensured in this context that in student guidance staff also have the necessary skills to provide specific support for further training opportunities?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u281	And now for both ministers, three more minutes. Secretary Andersson will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u282	Mr President! If we start out in high school, we will certainly answer all the important questions. In order for this threat that compulsory education would threaten small upper secondary schools to take place, it would then require a significant increase in the supply of upper secondary education in these so-called central cities. We have no indication that young people's willingness to go towards higher education is decreasing, and I personally find it unlikely that, for example, the central cities would be prepared to double the supply of upper secondary school education as a result of this reform, so at least I do not see any likelihood that this would threaten some of the upper secondary schools or their services. A greater threat to small upper secondary schools is the change in our demographic structure and the decline in the age groups, which will be reflected in the second degree already towards the end of this decade. There are many good questions about the exclusion of young people and the quality of basic education and what is going on about it. In addition to this funding for equality, the Finnish National Board of Education has worked on establishing criteria for the final evaluation, i.e. national criteria. This is something that has been hoped for very much from the field, that there would be a uniform national approach to what kind of knowledge is sufficient for the 5 grade, i.e. the accepted and what is not. This is one example of this kind of substantive development work that is going on. Next year we will pilot this model of committed school community work. Our aim is to have it consolidated during this parliamentary term. Also, further efforts in early childhood education, investments in quality, support learning, narrowing learning gaps, and, as has been pointed out, this reform will also reform joint training. With regard to this Regulation on vocational training, it is therefore intended to provide for a starting number of hours. At the moment, it is only stated that students are entitled to a sufficient number of education and guidance, but what is sufficient for whom? So the starting point is in the assessment when making hoks, but it can be flexible up or down depending on the student's personal needs in accordance with the competence-based approach of this vocational education. Mr Reijose, to whom I forgot to reply: compulsory education can be carried out in apprenticeship training, i.e. this has always been our starting point and has also been taken into account in this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u283	Minister Saarikko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u284	Mr President! In my reply, I will now answer these more detailed questions. In the previous round of speeches, Mr Eloranta, you asked about this exhibition fee, which was also the focus of the committee's special attention. The task force preparing the model for which the first half of next year has been appointed is now starting to emerge. Its task is to present a model for this to be implemented as a permanent approach, as requested by the committee. That is the starting point for putting that work into motion. Another entity was the future and destiny of the Natural History Museum — quite rightly, the museum next door — as I referred to in the Ministry’s deliberations. In Finland, universities have dozens of special tasks, national tasks, of which quite a few are actually at the University of Helsinki, and one of them is the maintenance of this museum, the Natural History Museum. I suppose you can say that it is a very special task because it is a museum and, on the other hand, it also has a strong dimension to scientific research. We have separate funding for these national tasks, and now our aim is in fact to resolve a very specific issue such as this, as is the case with the ministries' interface, through the funding of this national tasks, and it is great that the committee also paid attention to this national task for the University of Helsinki. The question of entrepreneurship education was then raised. And here too I am pleased that, Mr Kinnunen, you in the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgets contributed to this issue, in fact, for several years in a row, as a special consideration. I also think that we should have different ways of strengthening young people's understanding of money, the use of the economy, the adequacy of their own and the common euro, but also of raising them to entrepreneurship. We had already set aside EUR 700000 in the budget for a number of organisations that are doing good work, and now Parliament has allocated an additional amount to this, and I consider it to be funding that is certainly going to the right place. The goal must be that this activity reaches the school path of every young person in Finland at some point. I warmly support Mr Multala's comments on the connection between maternity clinics and physical exercise. It applies both to maternity health care and to raising a child for a physical life. In my earlier role, when I was in charge of the maternity kits, we also went over the content of the package, and I think that is something that we could, together with the Minister for Basic Service, mention to Mr Kiuru and discuss with Kela. The last point is the increase in funding for RDI, Mr President. Its funding is always inadequate in view of our national commitment to 4% of GDP. 70% of the funding is private, one third of the university's core funding is for research,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u285	Yes, and we will move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u286	Madam President! The exclusion of young people from education and working life is a continuing disaster and prevention requires understanding and correcting root causes. The question needs to be asked, ‘why?’and ‘why?’,the conditions and underlying reasons for the start of It is rather ironic that it is the Green Left that has produced one of the most populist educational policy reforms of all time, namely the extension of compulsory education. In response to the exclusion of young people, extending compulsory education only means more patches at the site of the accident. In this government, ideology replaces analysis on all critical issues, and the mark is terrible. The Green Left lifts itself up by talking about leadership with knowledge and counting others by talking about the time after the truth. However, in its ideological enthusiasm, this same green left sweeps aside the influence of the conditions of a childhood home of completely superior foreign and domestic research literature: the young person's self-regulation and learning skills develop at an early age. Long-term studies show that the lack of vocational training is one of the most important risk factors for life-style disturbances. However, there is no causal link, and this is where you have to be patient and ask ‘why’ for more. Today’s young people’s problems in secondary education cannot be solved by coercion. Madam President! Discussions with the best experience experts in secondary vocational education, or students themselves, reveal the harsh truth. Young people on the eve of adulthood themselves recognise and recognise that for a significant proportion of them vocational institutions are only day-time storage places. Key problems relate to young people’s life management and mental health. No additional resources at the second stage will remedy these problems at this stage. Nothing is more damaging to society and the economy than correcting the wrong problems with the wrong measures. In the growth of a child and a young person, the problems of the earlier stage will accumulate and be repeated in the later stages. Nor is it a question of not seeing and identifying problems in different age groups. It is therefore inconceivable that the government should go against the tide, from the end to the beginning. It is known that at the end of comprehensive school, the proportion of young people below the minimum level of competence has multiplied in this millennium and that poor skills in different subjects are accumulated among the same pupils and pupils. That is why ‘more of the same and more of the same’ Regrettably, the path that the government is now taking means that there are still more and more lost age groups and their growing problems over the years. The sooner we realise that we are investing properly in families with children and in the development and support of the cognitive and social skills of children in the early years, the sooner we will be able to become motivated, self-regulatory and capable young people. As in many other cases, this matter remains to be corrected by subsequent governments.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u287	Mr President! Representative Ranne saw with great drama the numerous valuable investments in the future in the area of OKM's administration. We all know how to list different problems, but there are fewer who know how to solve them. President! In recent times, compulsory education reform has also spoken here in Parliament on several occasions. In some speeches it has been accused of being costly and wrongly targeted. In next year's budget, EUR 27 million has been earmarked for the implementation of compulsory education reform. In 2024, when the reform is fully in force, it is estimated that its costs will be EUR 129 million. The compulsory education reform, in which compulsory education reaches 18 years of age, is carried out, for example, because young people's skills are sufficient to cope with working life. All too often young people who depend on the present mere comprehensive school are excluded from working life. Unemployment is a personal tragedy for young people and it is also an expensive option for society. The extension of compulsory education age also means the second-degree free of charge. This is a huge hand extension for young people and their families. In addition to the compulsory education reform, less attention has been paid to EUR 180 million, which has been earmarked for the development of quality and equality in basic education over the next three years. In next year's budget, EUR 75 million will be spent on this money. The same trend is also in favour of early childhood education. The Government will significantly reduce early childhood education fees and direct support for quality and equality work and continue to experiment with free early childhood education for five-year-olds. An epidemic of interest, including distance learning periods, has selectively increased inequalities between children. This is very worrying. In the case of many pupils, the need for support education has also increased considerably. The support for learning needs to be invested right now, the lives of children and young people are here and now. President! This year, the state has been in debt at a rapid pace in supporting businesses and municipalities, for example, and in caring for people’s health. Of course, these investments are vital if we are to catch up with post-corona growth. New jobs and skilled labour will play the leading role in this. Around Finland, there is a shortage of performing arts, those young people who know how to do electrical and plumbing work, paint and build, and this is precisely why there will be significant investments in vocational education and training next year. EUR 80 million will be allocated next year to increase the resources for teaching and guidance in vocational education and training. The aim is, of course, to secure the necessary education, guidance and support for each student. I would also like to thank Mr Kiviranta, with his troops, section and committee, for the valuable additions to the section. There is indeed support for fair art visits by schoolchildren, i.e. Taide testers, literacy projects, e-library libraries, teacher continuing training, young entrepreneurs, Business Village and consideration of liberal education. President! The interest rate is not over yet, and I am sure that next year there will still be challenges. In this situation, expenditure increases should be treated with extraordinary wisdom. However, experts have also agreed that investment in education and training should:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u288	Madam President! Finland is a country of education and education where we want to take care of the whole smooth school path. Compulsory education expands that everyone stays with us and we can pick up falling and get excluded from the ride. At the same time, we are carrying out a number of development projects in early childhood education and initial and vocational education and training. There will be more teachers and instructors in the vocational school. The Sustainable Growth Programme offers huge opportunities for research and development. All of this will increase employment. The Committee on Finance added EUR 10 million to the education budget, and there are a lot of important things there: Literacy funding will ensure the continuation of the national literacy project, and these basic skills should be strengthened. In the spirit of continuous learning, EUR 1 million will be earmarked for continuing training for teachers. We are implementing a continuous learning reform based on the idea that we will learn through life both in school, in hobbies and in voluntary work and that we need these smooth school paths in the middle of everything. That path can also be found through working life later. The most important thing is that everyone finds their strengths and their place as a responsible and active member of society. It is important that there is a desire and responsibility to develop oneself throughout life. The opportunity to update skills is also needed when working. This will ensure that companies have access to the skilled workforce they need. The lack of skilled workers is therefore the main obstacle to the growth of many companies. For the unemployed, smooth routes and skills are needed for new jobs. All of this requires coordination and cooperation between schools, businesses and public authorities. In this way, competence renews working life and working life skills. Finland has always been successful and will be able to cope with knowledge. We need doctors as much as we need handbrakes. The important thing is that everyone finds their place. When everyone has the knowledge, skills and skills needed for employment and a meaningful life, then there will probably not be a fall. I am therefore happy to talk about the skills for the future that are needed in a change in working life. EUR 40 million will be earmarked for all of this, and the allocation funds will also amount to just under EUR 2 million for liberal education, for example, in the development of basic skills and digital skills. Mr President! In the spirit of continuous learning, we learn both at school and in hobbies. The Finnish hobby model is the favourite child in the city centre. It's being directed at $14.5 million. It guarantees a free hobby for each child in connection with school day. I welcome the fact that we have cooperation between organisations and schools. The hobby can be exercise, art, 4H, patrol, free fire brigade, music, any sensible hobby. This model is now going to the pilots, and I am pleased that my municipality of Reisjärvi is also involved. Other important allocation funds projects are also to be seen there: Lemmensils, a cultural historical asset of Haapajärvi, will be renewed. This is an important cultural act and serves the region's wilderness tourism, nature tourism and possibly also teleworking tourism in the coming years. Of course, there is a need for training and guidance in this regard. Mr President! There's a lot of important civil society in the budget. Civility carries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u289	Mr President! Sanna Marin’s government will remain in history as a government that scored on extending compulsory education and invested in education. The budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture in the state budget in 2021 amounts to approximately EUR 7 billion, which means EUR 100 million more than in the current year's budget. We in the centre can support education efforts and educational reform because they are good things for the individual and for the nation as a whole. The Centre supports the extension of compulsory education, which will be extended from the beginning of 2021 to one age group at a time. Extending compulsory education means that after comprehensive school a young person must start studying at a secondary school. Studies can be done in upper secondary school, vocational school, folk high school or even in addition to work. In the first year, the total cost of compulsory education reform will be EUR 22 million. To the full extent, starting from 2024, the total cost is EUR 129 million. I hope that the decision-makers will now listen carefully to the speeches on this subject, because the most common question I have had to answer relates to these very costs: who pays for the study materials? The current cost of materials per pupil is not comparable, as material purchases during compulsory education are made in such a large volume that unit prices may decrease significantly. Despite the high costs, the increase in compulsory school age has been estimated as a reform that will pay for itself. For us in the centre, it is important that education reform will be a strong part of long-term employment policy, and this will of course improve the budgetary situation. A basic degree alone does not get a job, and it leads to a development of exclusion that we cannot afford. We also support the extension of compulsory education because it strengthens equality in many ways. In the future, learning materials that cost up to thousands of euros will be free of charge, i.e. young people’s ability to continue their studies as they wish, either in upper secondary school or in vocational studies, are not dependent on the family’s wealth and the income of their parents. It is clear that support for learning materials is not enough. School trips and possible housing costs must also be supported. The spiritual side of supporting education must also be invested. Resources are needed for guidance and contact teaching. In particular, the joint phase between primary and secondary education is important time to ensure that the student has all the help and support needed to learn and to think about further study places. In the centre, therefore, we fully support this major educational reform of our own time, which is also supported by respected economists. We believe that this time, too, we are on the right side from a historical point of view, just as we were 50 years ago when it was decided in our country to introduce a comprehensive school system. Even then there were criticisms and suspicions. Today, hardly anyone disputes the excellence of comprehensive school reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u290	Mr President! I do not believe that there are, at least for the moment, any Members of Parliament in this Chamber who would not regard education as very important and would like to see investments in education and training. It is also very important that every child and young person is given the opportunities and skills and the enthusiasm for learning that would then carry it to at least the upper secondary level. In fact, in its opinion on the budget, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs focused almost exclusively on how to put this foundation of learning in order, basic skills for all, support from early childhood education to basic education and also to that secondary level. We have not yet reached the actual conclusions, but we have heard from the experts how much effort is being made, but in all respects we are not yet succeeding. Now the government is reforming the support for early childhood education or is actually introducing a model of its own support for early childhood education, and I would like the government to listen extensively to experts. My own sister works as a teacher of early childhood education. He said that he had just talked to an experienced early-schooler and said that he was very concerned that there are new educational trends today and that it is like putting all children in the same mold that everyone should do in the same way. Could it be that, for example, there would now be special classes on the school side and, in addition to that, there could be the integration into mainstream education of children who, however, manage there, provide them with different kinds of support and tailor a completely different learning environment for some children who, for example, would benefit from that support? There is, of course, a need for all kinds of other forms of support, speech therapy, operational therapy and so on. I believe it is very important that, at a time when a new model of support is being created for early childhood education, equality there would be support for every child in the way that this child needs and not everyone in the same way. In this way we could offer our children more equal opportunities for starting a learning path. Mr President! Unfortunately, many students have been negatively affected by the Koronapandem. The differences in learning have not yet been particularly severe, but the differences in the well-being of children and young people have already grown over this short period of time. Mobility has also decreased. Last week, the latest results of the Move measurements, which are made for young people in the 5th and 8th grade, were released and show a long-standing trend, i.e. a deterioration in the sustainability of young people. It is therefore a long-term effect, from which the effects of the interest rate cannot be actually distinguished within this short measurement period. This is one of the very important points on which I believe that we, as decision-makers, have not yet been sufficiently awakened. If young people in the 5th grade are constantly doing less and less, how do they cope with the demands of working life? Or has it been studied, for example, what is the link between this deterioration in sustainability and the growth of learning differences? Because it has been proven to have a different effect, i.e. to move there during school day to improve learning outcomes, so you might think that it would work the other way around. It is therefore gratifying that the government, like the previous government, is continuing these Mobility programmes, i.e. trying to increase the movement to every child and young person's school day, study day and early childhood education day. I also hope, as I have just said, that special attention will also be paid to cooperation between child health clinics and early childhood education. The exercise habits of a small child are most affected by exercise with parents, and the ball in the maternity package would be an excellent tool. Mr President! At the moment, both sports, culture and other events are in great trouble, and I therefore welcome the fact that the government has started preparing to support these areas even better than it has been able to support these areas so far. In the future, however, we hope that these sectors will also be able to do so, because it is the only way of achieving sustainable employment there, on the one hand, but, on the other hand, that the mobility of children, young people and adults, for example, can be restored to a sustainable level even after this period of interest payments.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u291	Mr President! I think that the values of this government and the desire to invest in the future are well reflected in next year's budget. Contributions to children and young people are made from early childhood education to higher education. The best way to safeguard a good future is to raise the level of competence of our children. We are now investing in literacy and basic skills, among other things. It is gratifying that there is now a great deal of investment in early childhood education. The reduction in early childhood education fees is best targeted at families with low and middle incomes, where it affects precisely where it is most important. In a two-year preschool experiment, we can reduce the differences in learning, increase equality in education, support municipalities in the development of early childhood education and support the creation of learning environments suitable for children. The adequacy of special teachers and other educational staff must also be ensured. Permanent funding of EUR 15 million supports the adequacy of safe adults. EUR 75 million will be earmarked for the development of quality and equality in basic education next year, which will support the learning and well-being of school-age children and young people. Strengthening equality, quality and the need for support for learning are important so-called investments, which will help us to grow into more prosperous young people and adults. This is therefore also an investment in strengthening working life. Clarification and relaxation of joint stages along the school path is one of the keys to a more successful and equal learning path. This government makes investments in the joint stages between early childhood education and basic education as well as basic education and further studies. It should also be borne in mind that teaching staff play an essential role in ensuring that children and young people are not only safe but also flexible and individual. I am pleased that the Committee on Finance has in its report taken into account the strengthening of the capacity of teachers in identifying and supporting children who need special support or who are struggling with mental health challenges. The Committee's EUR 1 million contribution to continuing teacher training and to increasing gender equality and equality skills is an excellent and really long-awaited effort. It not only enhances the equality of children but also supports the work of teaching staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u292	Madam President! Ministers, colleagues and others following the plenary session! The administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture is always particularly pleasing to me as a teacher, and I am always happy when investment is made in education and skills. The euro will never go to waste, and that is why, this time again, the government deserves praise for the measures taken to strengthen this learning path from that early childhood education through primary school to higher education. For example, the reduction in early childhood education fees is a welcome continuation of the policy launched last season, and also this two-year pre-school experiment — which, in fact, I would have liked to have been done right away for the whole age group, which means that such an experiment would not necessarily have been necessary at this stage. Studies show that two - year preschool education would be a very effective way of helping these fallers not to come later: to help and smooth out the learning path of all children from the beginning. It is good to strengthen comprehensive school. It is the only guarantee that will eventually ensure a secondary degree for our young people. In primary school, we should be able to reduce the number of teaching groups. Quite little is said today about the fact that teaching takes place in too large groups. Unfortunately, the group size debate has been somewhat out of hand. I also believe that special education would require one step back to the past, and I myself have proposed, for example, a subjective right to a small education group when a child needs it, i.e. to allow a small education group for children and young people, regardless of their place of residence, for whom it would be the best place to get it personally. And there should also be more investment in student care in comprehensive school. The chairman of the Teachers' Trade Union, Olli Luukkainen, said quite so, freely quoting that it is no matter whether or not compulsory education is extended when these young people are not going to be able to cope at second level. And this is the worry where we should put the stakes now. Does extending compulsory education guarantee a secondary degree for every young person? No, no, no, no, no, no, And that is why, in my opinion, these young people who are in secondary school should now immediately help there in secondary school with personal support. Then those young people who are already in vocational school should be able to help at that vocational school now, quite personally, to stay in those studies and then support smaller children from early childhood education through comprehensive school on this path. We also need more teachers in vocational schools. I myself would do so in contrast to government policy, so that teachers would be permanently recruited to vocational schools as well as to upper secondary schools, so you could say: basics are in order. I personally am in favour of this freedom of payment for the second stage. I see that it is an important act of equality and equality, and I think it is quite welcome. Investments in higher education institutions, professional heights and universities are also welcome. And to the end of my concern about the field of events, the music industry and the sport that we were already talking about in the debate. Personally, I would like to see ways of helping the sector in a very difficult situation. Tens of thousands of artists and other people who have made a living in this area are in a very tight place. The music sector, closely linked to it, the trade fair sector and many others are in a very tight situation in practice, and it is only a matter of time before it also starts to become bankruptcy news. And then sports and exercise. I hope that we will find ways of limiting these restrictions so that we can act responsibly and keep the exercise in motion. This is the funding we were already talking about in that debate. Next year the government has promised that the billion will be distributed from here to the beneficiaries, but then what happens between 22 and 23 is whether the government will then cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u293	Mr President! I'd like to add the market vendors to that representative Heinonen's list. They're in big trouble right now. Mr Multala made a good speech on the immobility, and I do not think that we understand the big problems that this immobility is going to bring to us. School bullying and school violence are a number of problems and there is no single solution. Resources, good operating models and legislative reforms are needed. I would therefore like to thank Mr Andersson for having now set this round table of bullying and violence in motion. There things are being taken forward, and hopefully that group does not know the government-opposition limits. I would like to return to this timetable for compulsory education reform, which I did not receive an answer to. If that were the case, Minister Andersson, you'd still be able to answer. Why were the experts not consulted on this issue in this reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u294	Congressman Viitanen. - Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u295	Sorry, it's a little slow. — By the way, I was talking about the digital age and its challenges in this speech later. But as I said, Minister, I am very pleased that the cultural sector has been supported and I really share the concern that it should continue to be supported. It is important that you have already told us that this will be the case. There is a great distress, and we all see that there is a need to be able to respond to it. President! In my own speech, I would also like to underline the fact that there are many things that should be done here and now that the livelihood of these cultural factors is now more secure. I know that it is not your responsibility now, but that of Minister Pekonen, but I hope that the government can jointly outline certain things that can be done here and now. For example, with regard to the coordination of copyright income and unemployment security, it would be a very important and welcome reform in the music sector, and I would like it not to leave any social reforms waiting for the government to take up this challenge here and now. I was also thinking, President, about the importance of this addition — small in itself but important — to the library side, because I see its importance in the big challenge and scale, when we talk about the equality of the whole digital age, that is to say, that in the future the more important challenge will be that every single person, in terms of both technical and potential capabilities, will remain in pursuit of a society that is becoming digital all the time. In other words, it applies to all sectors, and I think that both ministers' plots have such things in particular, and one can think about how schools, how libraries, how free cultural work, everyone can contribute to their own self-interest in the fact that every single citizen has enough digital skills, access to the gadgets, and of course it would be remembered that not everyone will always be involved, so there must also be that person and the traditional service that exists in the sector if not another. President, the third point I was thinking of raising here is the nausea of young people. There is also the fact that it is a very wide-ranging issue. It is a question of what are the resources of the youth service, the possibilities for action, how can schools, how to develop equality in residential areas, and in particular I would see sufficient resources in local schools, so that young people can be good at school in every region. Housing policy, on which the next paragraph speaks on the side of the CMO, is very important, that housing areas should be equal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u296	Madam President! Corona pandemic has hit the scene with force. In order to curb the spread of the disease, people's gatherings have been restricted since last spring, and it has, of course, been reflected in the ticket receipts and the cultural and physical... [PresidentAnuVehvillainen : Sorry, representative,somebody printed a microphone. - And now Kemp's microphone seems to be working again. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u299	Mr President! I am pleased that the government's investment in children and young people, quality education and education is significant. Strengthening knowledge is a responsible employment policy. High competence is also a prerequisite for the success of our country’s future. Strong basic skills help to survive in life, and understanding about the things around increases opportunities and abilities to influence society and at the same time strengthens the experience that world change is not just scary, but a part of it manifests itself. The extension of compulsory education is undoubtedly the most significant change that is progressing with this budget. At the same time, the free-of-charge it brings is a hand-out for families with children, including middle-income taxpayers. However, it is important, especially in families where the cost may have guided the choices of the study path. In order to achieve the objectives of extending compulsory education from every upper secondary degree in Finland, sufficient resources are needed to provide guidance, support and welfare support for students. Action is also needed for the early years and families of children and young people. The budget will therefore make a significant contribution to strengthening both early childhood education and the quality of basic education. EUR 50 million will be earmarked for the quality programme for early childhood education and EUR 75 million for basic education next year, and EUR 180 million for three years. In addition, 84 million will be made up of the skills gap created by the interest rate. It should be remembered that the impact of exceptional circumstances may have been very different for different students and families. I also welcome the two-year experiment in preschool education. We will also increase the starting points for early childhood education teachers, as the sector is in great need of factors. The development of three-step support in early childhood education is also great. Reductions in early childhood education fees may, hopefully, also contribute to the increase in participation rates. Mr President! A total of EUR 47.5 million has been earmarked for actions to improve the skills of people of working age, i.e. continuous learning. For example, in Finland, digital skills are not as good as our international reputation might suggest. It is important that this does not create new skills for society, not on the basis of age groups, genders, wealth or other criteria. I would also like to remind you of the statement made by the committee on the resource needs of immigrant education in the field of free culture. Mr President! Good literacy is the key to many, both in person and in working life. Measures to improve literacy have taken off very well, and the committee hopes that they will continue in the coming year and will therefore increase the budget. The national literacy strategy should also be completed next year. The library is the living room of Finns, but in the discipline of municipal finances, libraries have also been under threat of closure in recent years. Interest support and future stimulus packages will hopefully enable, for example, the development of remote and digital library services. Museums have the same need for digitalisation. Mr President! The interest rate has caused significant losses and great harm to the cultural sector and to professionals in the creative sector. The sector has a significant impact on employment, 135,000 jobs, and it is also important to strengthen people's well-being. Together with representatives of all the parliamentary parties, I have taken an initiative to propose an urgent corrective action to improve the livelihood of artists. In fact, the coordination of copyright and unemployment benefits requires correction, since the ex-post benefit cuts unemployment benefit. A few more withdrawals from the Committee's selection of content: In order to ensure the continuity of the work of the Natural History Museum, both the statement and the first aid funding will be increased. There was a desire to invest significantly in continuing training for teachers. There was raised equality and equality education and support for organisations in global and peace education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u300	The two hours reserved in advance have been completed at this stage. The debate and the debate will be suspended and resumed later in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u301	The general debate on Section 29 of the Ministry of Education and Culture, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u302	Mr President! The government budget is 2021, the section of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Sanna Marin's government has been very positive towards education and training since the beginning. Therefore, more resources have also been made available for matters affecting children and young people, such as early childhood education and the educational path from early childhood education to higher education. The biggest reform has been the historic reform of the extension of compulsory education, which was voted on here today. The second level, free of charge, is also an act of equality which improves the opportunities for all children, including those of the poorest families, to be trained on an equal basis after basic education. The increase in compulsory education costs EUR 129 million per year. Next year, EUR 22 million has been budgeted for it when the first year comes under it. The extension of compulsory education does not solve the learning problems that arise at an early stage. This is why it is important to invest in early childhood education and comprehensive school, and this is also the case. Early childhood education has already been strengthened by, for example, reducing group sizes and restoring subjective rights. In addition, an additional EUR 50 million will be proposed for the development of quality and equality in early childhood education, which will include the development of a model of three-tier support and the extension of the experiment on free early childhood education for five-year-olds. Also significant is the reduction of early childhood education fees from 1 August 2021, which is expected to increase the number of children in early childhood education and employment. The cost impact of the reform is EUR 70 million, with an estimated 20,000 new families entering the zero-payment category. It is clear that compulsory education reform is not out of early childhood education, but on the contrary. In the early years of a child’s life, we need to invest our money so that growing children, young people, can make the most of secondary education. Contributions to the maternity clinic and support for families are also of paramount importance in promoting comprehensive well-being. Mr President! Comprehensive school is perhaps the most important part of the educational path and can be used to safeguard the child’s better future. That is why we also need to invest in comprehensive school. Concerns are the estimates that show too many children leaving comprehensive school with poor literacy and arithmetic skills. Thus, EUR 180 million has been earmarked for the development of quality and equality in basic education over three years, from which an additional EUR 75 million will be allocated for next year. The aim is, among other things, to reduce the differentiation of learning outcomes, to strengthen support for learning and the quality of education, and to support flexible, individual transitions in early years. It is estimated that the long distance education period from Korona has contributed to the polarisation of children in poor and well-being families. Among other things, the skills of parents such as digital, language-related skills are very diverse and there are considerable opportunities to support children’s schooling. This has contributed to the weakening of equal access to education and learning. The learning gap and also the number of lonely and distressed children increased during the spring exceptional circumstances, and the negative effects of distance learning seem to have accumulated for the same families and children. An additional EUR 84 million has been allocated to fill the learning gap that has arisen during the spring and will be available in the academic year 20-21. Mr President! The Government also invests in vocational education and upper secondary school education. Significant additional efforts will be made in vocational education and training, the most important of which will be the programme for the development of quality and equality in vocational education and training between 20 and 22, with a total of approximately EUR 270 million. The most important part of the programme is to increase the resources for teaching and guidance, to which 80 million will be allocated for next year. In particular, the number of people in need of special support has increased and, as compulsory education expands, the number of people in need is expected to increase. Students also need stronger guidance and teaching when moving from studies to working life. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank the government for its investment in higher education, and especially during this exceptional period, for the decision to increase the number of higher education places by a total of 10,000 this year. It opened up and opens up opportunities for many young people to move forward in life. Thanks also to the full compensation for the collapse of gambling profits — EUR 347 million, of which the Ministry of Education and Culture's share, EUR 141.5 million, is a significant sum that can be used to run the important activities of many associations and organisations. Among other things, the funding of sports and sports is heavily dependent on the income of Veikkaus. It must be possible to secure them in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u303	Mr President! The full-time university and polytechnic selection test reform, which entered into force this year, was supposed to help the transition of secondary students to further studies. But that is not what has happened. For example, after high school there will be a record number of year-olds. 70 per cent of upper secondary school students take a year off their own will or do not continue directly from upper secondary school to a place of study leading to a degree. Only one in three high school students feel that they have been given enough guidance for the right career. The resources of study guidance have not kept pace with the reform. The purpose of student guidance is to support the student in his studies and to ensure that the student has sufficient knowledge and skills needed to move on to further studies and working life. Mr President! At present, this is not even satisfactory in all respects, for for example, one guidance counselor in a high school can have up to 400 students. I asked for this speech when the ministers were still here, and I would have asked them: will this budget proposal be able to replace scenarios of this kind in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u304	Mr President! During the day of the debate, I did not quite have time to present more of the good additions made by the committee, so a few more words about them. In Finland, teachers participate exceptionally little in continuing training and receive it. This day began by drawing Minister Andersson, through a round table devoted to the eradication of bullying. There, too, almost all the speakers present raised the importance of teacher skills and continuing training in tackling bullying. One of the causes of bullying is racist attitudes — and also many other factors, such as sexual orientation or anything, where so-called diversity can be seen. These can lead to bullying. Statutoryly, all institutions should draw up their own equality and equality plans. Last year, the National Board of Education carried out a survey showing, however, that 38 percent of schools have not done so. This will leave school out of the process of tackling the problems of that particular school, and this would require more knowledge. Indeed, the committee showed an important additional effort in continuing teacher training, in which issues of equality and equality were raised and strengthened separately. In addition, a few other projects. As decision-makers, many of us know how indoor air problems affect schools and also day care centres around Finland. The funding was intended to continue for indoor air research carried out in Turku by the TROSSI project in connection with the University of Turku. In addition, funding was provided by the Aalto University Situation Room, which has also provided Parliament's decision-makers with timely information on the situation in various sectors of society during this period. And I would like to remind you that the committee added a text to the report on the important follow-up to the work of the Watchmaker School.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u305	Mr President! In Akava's recent survey for university and polytechnic students, about 70 per cent of students hoped that it would be possible to take part in distance education even after the emergency situation caused by the corona pandemic. The students felt that it was possible to combine studies, working life and leisure in this way in the best possible way. The students thus experienced freedom and a sense of control over their own time and everyday life. Distance learning enables combining qualifications with better courses and other competence packages from around the world. Mr President! I would have asked the responsible ministers: has the government, in its recent budget proposal, taken sufficient account of the rapidly changing digital world and the new opportunities it offers?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u306	Presentation of Section 35 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment. At this stage, a maximum of 1.5 hours shall be reserved for the general discussion in the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u307	Mr President! Minister, I am pleased to present the section of the Ministry of the Environment, and although I could list dozens of different figures, I will try to reduce their number a little and describe to you the whole that we have achieved. But let us start with figures: Overall, EUR 323 million is going to be spent on the environmental side, more than EUR 37 million more than last year. There are nearly 270 million housing grants and over 2 billion central government guarantees. The Government has a strict objective of achieving carbon neutrality in Finland by 35 years, and this goal has been set to be pursued by a number of different means. Next year there will be energy grants, electric car charging infrastructure, wood construction programme, the promotion of the circular economy. Of course, to this last one, in particular, we would also like to draw on the European Union's stimulus package to get it moving properly. Next year the status of living environments, i.e. the Helmi programme, and the biodiversity of forests in Southern Finland, or Metso programme, will also be enhanced. The objective of Metso is to have nearly 100,000 hectares of forests protected by the year 25, and the good news is that 80% of this amount has already been implemented. The water protection programme is also being continued, and we also respond to a wide variety of questions about hiking and fishing, which has also been pushed forward by the corona and inspired by it. The debt to repair cultural historic buildings is being dismantled, but we recognise that far too little is being done. It certainly needs a solution to the state's real estate strategy... [5 seconds break in sound recording] The authorisation of interest subsidy loans in housing production is set at 1.8 billion, which is an all-time record, and it enables the construction of approximately 9300 dwellings. The MALs will also be extended and increased. It is worth noting that the committee wishes to continue the start-up grant for municipalities outside the MAL regions, and that is what the committee expressed its wish to do. We are also trying to help regions with declining populations. They are expected to receive, among other things, demolition allowance, unloading vouchers and limitation cards, as well as rehabilitation aid for older people's homes. At the moment, the experts believe that we have sufficient powers of assistance, but of course the whole can always be developed, and that is why we are waiting for a housing policy development programme. Hopefully, it will also bring more help to lessen the population. In terms of housing policy, it is worth remembering that we still have over 300 disabled people in institutional care, although the aim was that after this year this would no longer be the case. This is a clear indication of the need for continued investment grants. The aim is also to halve the homelessness by 23 and we heard very positive comments about it, but remember that homelessness will never disappear unless we eradicate the root causes of homelessness. As long as there is a lack of participation, a drop in school, a variety of substance abuse problems and so on, there will always be new homeless people, which means that this problem cannot be solved only at the end, but especially at the beginning, and then this extension of compulsory education will hopefully bring improvement. With regard to the allocation reserve, I would just like to remind you that the various natural sites received a lot of money, and the special attention of the committee is to make Saimaa Unesco a natural heritage site, which is also in the Government Programme. And I am happy to say that the Keep Archipelago Cleaning vessel, which was agreed unanimously by the previous government, received the 500,000 again, i.e. the ship to Saimaa will be refurbished and the stone structures will be refurbished.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u308	Thank you, and Minister Mikkonen, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u309	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Very nice Christmas season for everyone, and thank you both to the Committee on Finance and the Committee on the Environment for the work on the budget report. Overall, budget proposals from the Ministry of the Environment for next year will create much needed momentum for reducing emissions, natural recovery and low-carbon and affordable housing. In addition to the actual government budget proposal, a supplementary proposal for the 21st budget has been submitted in November, adding EUR 19.5 million to nature conservation and funding for the ASTA project to combat homelessness, as well as for the Green Leaf year of Lappeenranta, which has won the title of the greenest city in Europe. I am pleased that the Committee on Finance proposes additional funding in its budget report, for example for the purchase of vessels by Archipelago Siittinä ry, the recreational use of nature, the refurbishment of water bodies and wetlands, and the promotion of the UNESCO project in Saimaa. Mr President! The first year of work will soon be behind 100 million increased funding for nature conservation. Funding will also be at historically high levels next year, and not without cause, as Finland has continued to accelerate its decline in biodiversity. However, the message of researchers is encouraging: we have the opportunity to reverse the trend. There is a need for additional funding for this. For example, this year's funding has launched the Helmi environmental programme, which protects and restores bogs, restores bird wetlands and traditional biotopes. During this term of government, the protection of the marshes has taken off at a delightful pace. We have already protected well over 4,000 hectares of values. The management and renovation of valuable habitats will create new jobs throughout the country and will also improve the conditions for nature tourism. Mr President! This year Metsähallitus' nature services have rapidly closed the renovation debt of nature reserve and national park hiking structures by refurbishing, among other things, tallwood, lava and campfire sites. We will continue this important work next year. The investments in renovations have come at the Count’s time: the corona epidemic has greatly increased the popularity of natural travel, and there has been plenty of activity in national parks. We also invest in water protection. Next year, funding for the water protection programme will be used for plastering and water treatment projects across Finland in the Archipelago Sea catchment area. Next, the questions of the built environment. The volume of construction has remained almost at last year's level despite the corona pandemic. In housing construction, new start-ups are expected to decrease from 38,000 to some 35,000 this year and to continue to decrease slightly next year. The high level of housing production in recent years has been reflected in the improvement in the supply of rental dwellings and in the slowing down of the rise in rents, especially in medium-sized cities. With regard to housing construction, the draft budget is stimulating. ARA’s interest subsidy mandate is set at 1.8 billion, which allows for the construction of a home at a reasonable price of 9000–10000. This year, an amending budget is expected to bring about around 9,000 ARA initiatives. Next year, MAL start-up grants — a total of EUR 39 million — are expected to remain at the same increased levels as this year, which will encourage the construction of ARAs in growth regions. In line with the change made by the committee, start-up grants are also presented for normal ARA production outside the MAL regions. In order to encourage wood construction in normal ARA floor building production, increased start-up grants are proposed for the whole country. I consider this incentive to wood construction to be a good innovation that promotes both Finnish wood construction and the reduction of the carbon footprint of construction. Municipal technical grants related to MAL contracts are proposed to increase to EUR 25 million. The number of renovations is also increasing this year. The same EUR 40 million grant facility is proposed for energy renovations of dwellings this year. The aid has proved to be quite popular, and energy renovations are an excellent climate-friendly stimulus. Nearly EUR 10 million is proposed for the disposal of oil in residential buildings. The support that has started this year has been very popular, and hopefully we will receive further funding from the EU's recovery funding for this. Honorable Speaker! In the coming year, Finland’s circular economy work will also take big strides when the circular economy promotion programme is completed. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection rightly points out in its opinion,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u310	Let's move on to the debatation phase. I would ask those representatives who wish to participate in the debate to press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u311	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Mikkos. The Government makes very significant investments in climate, knowledge, employment, basic municipal services and the competitiveness of industry. A billion-dollar investment will be made in climate action. The Government will reduce climate emissions and support economic development by reforming energy taxation and supporting industrial electrification. Effective climate action is divided into different administrative sectors, and it is worth making sure that these different administrative sectors are also genuinely working together to achieve the objectives, otherwise this objective will go further away from all of us. Special thanks for the money from next year's budget for nature conservation, the purchase of nature reserves, the promotion of wood construction and the elimination of homelessness. As Mr Järvinen also said in his own speech, this latter is a disgrace such as that which calls, in particular, for intersectoral cooperation, for preventive work and, of course, for:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u312	Mr President! The government's most ambitious EU objective of carbon neutrality is reflected in the 21st draft budget of the Ministry of the Environment, with an increase of tens of millions. In addition, the government has made tax increases which may appear to be small but have a larger impact. Finland is a sparsely populated country with long distances, where the use of its own car is often the only way to move. Increases in fuel tax increase the cost of working and cut people’s purchasing power. An increase in the tax on peat will inevitably result in an uncontrolled dismantling of the sector, resulting in the loss of thousands of jobs and a loss of income of up to EUR 9 million and job losses abroad. Peat decisions have significant impacts at national level. Vapo sold the district heating company Nevel, which he owned under duress, to the French investment company, and it remains to be seen whether this will be the next Caruna. Mr Government, are you prepared to cancel your tax increases on peat and fuels, which will increase the cost of our citizens and industry and will undermine our competitiveness? And do you prevent the risk of carbon leakage and secure a Finnish factory pipe, which is a global eco-act?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u313	Mr President! Yesterday, from industry, I heard a positive message that biogas investments may be starting, and it can be hoped that LNG in particular will be an important solution for Finnish heavy traffic within the next ten years. However, this is the challenge for nutrient cycles and watercourses as to whether anything will be done about the sludge after digestion. Well, that's the key to whether it's going to get rid of phosphorus and nitrogen. And I ask: what are you going to do about it, that this is not going to be a whole lot of trouble? We have 6 million in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for this kind of nutrient cycle support, but it does not seem to be at all the same measure as what is needed in order to get the manure really processed. Another important question: The EU summit now set climate objectives, including apparently the idea of increasing the importance of sinks. By what means could we in Finland smartly help seedlings to shake faster in order to secure the growth of wood pulp in forests?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u314	Mr President! In its opinion to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection stressed the importance of speeding up and making the circular economy work in this country. Just now, when I was talking to a circular economy company, the ash company, it is almost impossible to obtain an end of waste permit from the Regional State Administrative Agency — constantly asking for clarifications. And, Minister, I hope that you will contribute to this situation in such a way that permits will come. We are about to face the situation of entrepreneurs leaving this country. This cannot continue to be the case if bureaucracy is used to kill those companies that have so much to offer. They are in a situation where the product would enter the market no matter how much, but the end of waste marking cannot be removed from the Regional State Administrative Agency. It's a waste of bureaucracy. I hope it will be addressed. The second thing is that the grants for wood construction must also be equal, not only in these MAL areas, but in Finland as a whole, because the wooden house is built in Ilomantsi or Helsinki, so just as much does the carbon that is used in that house. Finally, Mr President,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u315	Mr President! Peat accounts for 12 per cent of our country’s emissions, and it employs 0.1 per cent of Finns. It is quite clear that we need to get rid of this anomaly. And many heating plants, many energy plants have gone out voluntarily to do this work even before the government's tax changes. I know of an energy company that has reduced the use of peat from about 50% to just over 10%. However, our common concern is what happens to entrepreneurs in the peat sector, who have big investments in machinery and so on. Now that we know that a lot of bird wetlands are being restored, I would like to ask the Minister at what stage the negotiations are taking place, how people working on peat are being directed to other nature conservation work, so that they will continue to work and not the couple of thousand people will be unemployed who will make a living directly from peat.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u316	Mr President! In addition to Korona, the climate crisis and the natural disaster are still very acute crises, faced with which the failure of the Finns of Peru is certainly not an option, and fortunately most of us understand that. In addition, it is quite right to point out that the interest rate is actually a sign of a natural disaster and that our actions are not sustainable. Well, it is very important now that this corona is overcome and this society is rebuilt, that we do not make decisions that exacerbate the climate crisis and continue to impoverish nature. In the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, it was very important to point out that the state budget, like the recovery measures, must therefore be systematically assessed from the point of view of their climate and natural impacts. We said that any allocation of appropriations should respect this principle of non-discrimination, i.e. the 'do no harm' principle. And, as Mr Taimela said, this important responsibility for coordination, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u317	Ärade talman, Mr President! Finlands mål är ju att vara klimatneutralt år 2035, och samordningsansvaret för klimatpolitiken finns på miliöministeriet. Här finns en hel del åtgärder för att nå det rauta, bland you give utveckling av fastighetspecifik oljeuppvärmning, att man får stöd för de rauh sakerna, bland you give. Här finns också satsningar på circulär ekonommans med arbets- och näringslivsministeriet och jord- och skogsbruksministeriet, och det är wastebra. Det ox är någonting som skapar arbetsplatser. Det är också glädjande att det finns satsningar på närturismen, och är vill jag lyfta fram vandringsleden Björkö — Panike i kärldsarvet i Kvarken — väldigt fin satsning.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u318	Mr President! We need billions of dollars to invest in climate action. This will help reduce climate emissions and support the development of the economy by reforming energy taxation and at the same time supporting Finnish industry. Finland’s sustainable growth programme is determined to promote Finland’s green transition, and we already have a high pace of transition in the steel industry, among other things. That is why it is very important to allocate the resources of the recovery fund. It must be done in a way that supports the achievement of carbon neutrality so that old structures need not even be considered to be preserved, but are used for a unique opportunity and opportunity to support Finnish competitiveness and to promote future structural change. In particular, it should be strengthened in terms of circular economy measures and synergies, mitigation of climate change and the safeguarding of biodiversity. How, for example, to process synthetic fuels
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u319	Mr President! We should now remind the government that the real and urgent need for protection is linked to the mechanical, chemical and biological pollution of the environment. This is the most important one. The arable land must also be maintained and increased. And we can solve this problem globally here in Finland with modern technology. But what is the government doing? The government chooses a CO2 hunt that is not impressive. It would be interesting now for Minister Mikkonen to tell us what the price of this yacht will be for Finnish citizens. What would it mean for our society to achieve those goals by 35 C.E.? What that would mean for our standard of living,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u321	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee, which worked on this much-needed and well-founded project to enable the vessel investment of Archipelago Siittinä ry. A great deal of work has been done here at the end of Parliament, and it is a good, concrete example of what we can do here at the end of Parliament. It is also great that the government has continued to finance the protection of water bodies on the basis of the work that was started last season during the Sipilä government. This is very desirable and positive. But we would have liked to see this funding, rather than a large number of fragmented projects, genuinely effectively targeted at the regions and the measures that make the best use of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u322	Mr President! Environmental issues are very important, and it is therefore good that making Saimaa a UNESCO natural heritage site is progressing. Experts have also issued their own opinions on this. However, I myself pay attention in this speech to construction and housing, as construction employs a lot of Finns. It is therefore good that the government is now making investments there too: among other things, the start-up grants for wood construction will be increased in the MAL area. But, as Mrs Hoskonen said very well in her speech, I sincerely hope that these similar subsidies for wood construction will be extended to the whole of Finland in equal amounts. That would be very important. Those grants are also good for encouraging municipalities and households to switch from oil heating to domestic renewable energy,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u323	Mr President! At first, thank you to the Government, and especially to the Minister for the Environment and Climate, Mikkonen, for the successful nature conservation and climate work. I would also like to highlight the circular economy. It is a means by which we can reduce emissions, over-consumption and the loss of nature and at the same time create jobs. A significant reduction in the use of virgin raw materials should be taken as a starting point in the circular economy. This is where we can finally move forward as the circular economy promotion programme, prepared under the leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, is completed. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection drew attention to the need to allocate sufficient resources to all ministries' administrative sectors to implement the programme in order to move forward, and to identify this coordinating responsibility for promoting the circular economy as regards the resources of the Ministry of the Environment. In particular, synergies with climate change mitigation and biodiversity conservation should be strengthened.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u324	Mr President! After the time of interest there really is a need for hope for the future and for action on the path of this sustainable growth, but unfortunately this budget next year not only for employment but also for large-scale climate action. The Finns again looked forward to greater climate action with researchers and experts and the path that could actually be reached by carbon neutral Finland by 2035. My question now is: how is the tax reform? Our tax focus should be shifted from the taxation of work and entrepreneurship to the taxation of disadvantages and emissions. The government’s speeches and indecisiveness tighten the migration from peat too quickly. Why does the government not take decisions as quickly as possible on this fair, fair transition fund, or on the decisions needed to use this JTF funding for these peat areas as well? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u325	Mr President! It is a great thing that wood construction has now started to move forward, and one might say that, having followed it earlier from that province, it is really painfully slow here in Finland, although it has been said that we are the land of green gold. These additions to the MAL are also good, but I share the same concern with Mr Hoskosen and others that it would be good if this building aid were spread evenly elsewhere and not just to the MAL regions. In addition to that, I would like to ask: how does the government intend to promote the construction of wood? Is there anything else on record for next year? We have also had hopes that this alternative to wood construction should always be clarified, especially on the municipal side. Generally, it is assumed that it is more expensive, but it is not always so. I would have liked to hear from the Minister what other methods are than this MAL area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u326	Mr President! Unlike the government, we Finns are concerned about Finland's employment, entrepreneurship and economic growth. As a result, we see that energy and climate policy must support employment and economic growth and not hinder them, as is now happening. Similarly, we must ensure that our country will continue to pursue an energy policy aimed at coherence, affordable and domestic energy, which will continue to contribute better to employment, economic growth, competitiveness and purchasing power. In addition, we Finns have always stressed that a Finnish factory pipe is an environmental act. Finland’s overly ambitious climate policy is now causing China to build a pipe and make it considerably more polluting than Finland. That is why, as a party and as a parliamentary group, we have proposed a climate tax or a climate tax on imported products from countries that are particularly polluting. If this is achieved, we will thus be able to take care of Finland's competitiveness and jobs much better in the future. I would ask you, Minister: are you prepared to give serious thought to the proposal of the Finns for a climate tax or a customs duty?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u327	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a good introduction and for the work he has done on these matters. Here, in next year's budget, these grants come from energy subsidies for housing, the charging infrastructure for electric cars and the abandonment of oil heating per real estate. In addition to these grants, I have wondered that an effective way of helping this low-carbon transition would be to lend loans, that is to say, to support these low-carbon procurements, which are often of an investment nature, i.e. to pay themselves back. Is there any such consideration within the government? Secondly, safeguarding biodiversity — an extremely big, serious, global challenge alongside climate change. Now we have great investments in nature conservation, but it would be important for this topic and the subject to be cut across all decision-making. I would have asked what can be done to increase biodiversity in everything: industry, land use,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u328	Mr President! The Government will continue to protect water, like the previous government, and concentrate resources on reducing the nutrient load of agriculture, among other things. Here too a few previous representatives have asked what this programme contains, and in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, when I was still a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, we also heard about this in the context of the budget, and there experts suggested that support could be directed towards the transfer of manure phosphorus. It would help both the farmers and then the farmers to effectively manage the burden. The second proposal is whether part of this aid could be used, for example, for the riveting of shore-hulls through pilot projects, as Mr Sirén has suggested. There are a few concrete measures here which, at least at the title level, would fit very well into this important programme launched by the government, because the state of the Baltic Sea, for example, can no longer expect further action.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u329	Mr President! It is very sad if someone continues to claim in this Chamber that the fight against climate change and industry are one another's enemies, because that certainly does not have to be the case if we look at this issue realistically, as in the face of this House one another. In other words, in the world, capital is moving at an accelerating pace towards carbon-free solutions, and we must seize every new opportunity not only from the point of view of the climate but also of its employment. I dare to think that every parliamentary party in this Chamber wants to think that improving employment is our main objective, and climate change is one of the solutions that we, all parties, should see in this Chamber too. In other words, environmental and climate-friendly products and innovations are our competitive edge of the future in international competition, and I really hope that after these debates, which we have had in this Chamber this year, every government party and opposition party will see.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u330	Mr President! Minister Mikkonen mentioned the longwoods, and perhaps the Minister of Finance wants to have a deep debate on whether they may be tulip hats, so it is good that such a small and tangible but joyous issue was raised when we talked about government finances all day. In some areas Metsähallitus has moved on to using gravel instead of longwoods, and although it may not remind you of childhood memories, I also encourage the Minister to note that from a practical point of view these longwoods are not the best solution for crossing wetlands, when they cannot bear it, are slippery and they cannot be guaranteed. In the summer, I walked together over 800 kilometers [800 km] of the long Kalotti route, and it met with some kind of tuning. Many times it was better to walk straight into the swamp than to use these slippery, broken and submerged structures, that is, as you promote them, either take good care of them or replace them with other solutions. Cottage trees are not really needed to achieve natural experiences.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u331	Mr President! I am a little concerned about following this debate when I feel that there should be state aid in every area soon, and it would be worth looking at the expenditure side of the purse sometimes. I do not understand this grass when we have not agreed to stop using peat, even the use of energy. We are currently the world's leading provider of growth platforms throughout the world. New products will enter the market and we will be able to manage this energy package in such a way that there is no need for state aid. Use that peat wisely and turn it into a fuel for security of supply, and then use... Bad chips will not burn unless there is support fuel, but I doubt the Minister for the Environment wants to burn coal or oil as support fuel. As far as Mr Junnila's good speech on these longwoods and others is concerned, it came to mind a good proposal of this kind for us parliamentarians, including the honourable Minister: What's the point of putting that tall tree all over the place? I recommend buying good hiking shoes, decent shoes with waterproof film inside and excellent otherwise.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u332	Mr President! Minister, I would like to thank you for this. It is very welcome and necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u335	Mr President! Minister, first of all, it warms the heart of the nature guide’s money for promoting fishing and hiking. Korona has developed the Finnish nature relationship in a good direction, and I am very proud that it is also reflected in the state budget. The voluntary forest protection programme Metso and the Hunter Federation also earn the money reserved. They are very good investments. Mr Environment Minister, it is good that the regions of Lahti, Jyväskylä and Kuopio are now involved in these MAL negotiations in urban areas. Thanks for the extra money for wood construction and the development of municipal technology. It's a great thing that we get more homes out of the tree. It's a real coal work for these cities. At the same time, however, I find it unusual that the negotiations have been held in two rounds and the three cities are still in an unsigned state. So I ask the Minister: how will we get these agreements to the end next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u336	Mr President! I would like to ask Mr Järvise and Mr Kivelä: Does the detachment of peat have to be done in such a way that it is completely out of control? Do you take into account the social, economic and regional dimensions of the matter? This is where, among other things, Finnish security of supply, work and self-sufficiency are going, while we replace peat burning with poor wood, which is imported from Russia by trucks and from Central Europe by ships. Do you think this is the green resuscitation? I agree with these speeches on this promotion of wood construction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u337	Mr President! As far as peat is concerned, I agree that it is now important to ensure that peat is not replaced by wood burning. That is why I personally think that such a tax on wood would be a good thing. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] I should like to ask the Minister: what do you think of this proposal on the matter tax — or even of other people in this Chamber — which, for example, has been put forward by the Panel on Climate Change, and at least I would be happy to promote it myself?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u338	Mr President! First of all, this tax issue. The Coalition Party is not in favour of such additional tax proposals. Then my real point: I would like to thank the Minister for his very successful work. I have to thank you for having something to thank you for. I am pleased that the national parks have been managed well. For example, the budget has increased for national parks. During the last parliamentary term, we have already made these additions, and the direction is good. Of course, there's a lot of repair debt. We've been talking about tall trees and structures. In this context, I would always like to raise the issue of the deserted. We've got about 300 deserts. It is a unique network in the world. It is good that the Committee's report also takes account of those who are deserted in Kainuu separately. The small problem with deserters is that foreign expeditions have begun to invade them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u339	Mr President! Climate action also provides concrete support for employment. Finns have long-term expertise and experience in taking environmental values into account in manufacturing. This is our absolute strength, which must now be used in every way possible. Just as Mr Taimela said here, capital is looking for carbon-free alternatives. The global market is open, and it is huge, and it is also open to us Finns. We need a sustainable green industry in Finland that ensures jobs and security of supply. The future is very bright for Finnish environmentally friendly and clean technology industry as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u340	Thank you. — The Minister has had a lot of questions, so would you have a few minutes to answer the questions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u341	Mr President! First of all, of course, thank you for your thanks. It is also nice to have positive feedback. There have been so many questions. I'll answer a few questions now, and I'm sure we'll pick it up later. First of all, let us start with this wood construction that came up in so many questions. In other words, outside the MAL areas, you will also receive EUR 2000 start-up aid, so that it is not only for the MAL areas but also for the rest of the world. And there are other ways to promote wood construction. We published the objectives of public wood construction, and the wood construction programme will continue as well. It also invests in education, counselling and industrial construction. It must be remembered that the construction of wood does not only mean that the whole house is built from wood, but also wood structures and parts of the property can be used. For example, care facilities do a lot of this. Then the MAL deal became a question. At the moment, negotiations are still under way for truly new MAL areas. These were carried out in two instalments because the old MAL contracts were terminated and continued directly and the new ones have since been negotiated. There has also been much talk about climate policy and how it affects employment. As many Members have said, investment is currently going to low-carbon operators, the jobs created there. And yesterday, for example, I myself discussed with the Climate Leadership Coalition, which is a group of more than 70 Finnish companies that are specifically promoting an ambitious climate policy. There are big players involved, such as the Machine, Neste and Huhtamäki, and they stress that if we do not do climate action, it will cost these companies a lot of money. And that is why, for example, low-carbon industrial road maps are now such a way that now that we are considering recovery packages, we want to find those clean solutions together. Well, then I will raise this homelessness, which also came up. We do a lot of homeless work. Finland is one of the few European countries that has managed to reduce homelessness, but this does not mean, of course,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u342	Mr President! A few comments. It is great that national parks and nature services are invested in recreational use and tourism. Nature tourism has grown greatly. Of course, when you looked at the investment list, you would have liked to see more of these projects there, but it has been well advanced during this government term. In terms of wood construction, Joensuu is a model city, and we have Finland's highest wooden building, student house, 14-story, and Arena and Metla and others. But many greetings have come from the builders throughout the construction of wood from the examination of the standard. In many ways there would be a place for updating, which would then be able to promote wood construction. Well, then, this turf conversation: It's true that this one got a little out of hand. I'm sure no one thought the energy industry would drive it down at this rate. Now the most important thing is for me to take care of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u343	Mr President! I'm sure this turf conversation will continue, so I'm not talking about it, I'm talking about white cheek geese. In the case of spring banishment, there is a restriction on the use of forceful sound repellents and shootings. The influence of the means left behind on the behaviour of geese is non-existent and short-term. In addition, many farms have been surprised by the restrictions and bans on expulsions in the vicinity of nature reserves and target areas. In other words, the decisions went beyond the interests of the geese and the Nature Conservation Act and the plight of the farms was left secondary. In order to safeguard the functioning of farms, the economy, feed self-sufficiency and animal welfare and health, are you prepared to allow the shooting of white cheek geese during the spring migration, which has an effective and long-term impact on the behaviour of geese?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u344	Mr President! I, too, am delighted with the renovation of the camping infrastructure. A campfire or a desert house warms you up. So it's not just the tall trees, is it? Here are so many camping friends, the representative here seemed to be speaking, that it occurred to me to wonder if there is still a nature group previously actively run by Emeritus Representative Salolainen. I'm sure there's a demand for that. I am also delighted with the additional funding provided by scouts for the Evo camp area structures. The state of biodiversity has long been alarming in Finland. For example, the researchers of the Finnish Environment Agency have received a strong and clear message. However, we have the opportunity to stop the loss of biodiversity. One of the main problems is land use in this perspective. Forest fellings, ditchings and loads on water bodies all endanger biodiversity. It's great that Minister Mikkosen is here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u345	Mr President! It is indeed important that Metsähallitus has received additional funds, and especially since this year is behind us and the number of users has risen dramatically, it is good that EUR 200,000 came to Oulu for the hiking structures of the Sang River nature reserve and the eastern border hiking route came to Hossa, also for the deserted and many more. And like Mr Hopsu, I welcome the allocation for the rehabilitation of the Evo youth camp area, EUR 100,000. Finns have moved much in nature this year. It will certainly continue, and it will also involve the necessary exercise and association. Mr President! How is the long-term development of housing policy, which has been well managed by Minister Mikkonen as President? What about this report — and what about the Waste Act, which I asked about last year in this budget feedback debate? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u346	Mr President! This is the second year, we're halfway through the spring. The Government's ambitious objective of carbon neutrality has already become familiar to us, but we are still waiting for the impressive measures, decisions to be taken to move towards this objective. Many of the impressive actions recommended by experts have been constantly moved forward only. Now, if the Minister had something new to say about, for example, Vake's capitalisation: How are these hundreds of millions of euros to be spent through this climate finance? What are the criteria for promoting funding? If we could get clarity on this climate finance, it would certainly tell us, at least in a small part, about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u347	Mr President! It is very important that we also invest in nature conservation in difficult times. It is also important that both the Ministry of the Environment and the Committee on the Environment have identified the role of municipalities in climate and nature work. Municipalities have shown a broad desire to act, and that is something that we should support. For example, it is important that in the future the municipalities also have access to funding for their own activities. I would also like to thank the Minister for the fact that we are preparing proposals for two new national parks, Sallatunturi and Evo. I think it is very important that we also expand the network of national parks, not only to restore the existing ones. And with regard to biodiversity, I would like to point out that, in addition to the number of protected areas, it is particularly important to ensure that these areas are connected so that species can move and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u348	Mr President! I believe that Mr Eskelinen has said that the debate on peat has left the floor or has become overemphasized, and to this extent I agree that this has become over-politicised. Taxation can affect that speed, but this is a much more natural trend than what is being proposed. If you look at the 10 to 15 years perspective, the key is the development of heat pump technology, its efficiency, its competitiveness, and it is also the key that can be used to avoid burning wood. In this respect, I would very much like to see the transfer of large heat pumps to the second category of electricity tax, i.e. to the lower category of electricity tax, moving forward as quickly as possible, because that is what is happening. Of course, it is important to make sure that when the amounts in the peat production area are reduced, new livelihoods are created. Carbon capturers Oy would like to bind one per cent of Finland's carbon emissions so that compensation fees can be used to afforest
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u349	Mr President! In this debate on peat, the facts have been forgotten long ago. After all, we now have a situation in which we are driving a chip from Central Europe here, bringing a huge number of fungicides and insect pests to Finland, and no one cares about them. Not a single minister or expert has even trampled his ear. The owner of the forest will have to clear every log by the side of the road before July, yet millions of cubes, by shipload, are planned on the west coast of these pests. The Russian hake has conquered the entire Cape of Finland. Domestic suppliers of energy wood will soon be bankrupt. Peat runs out — it runs out of power plants, it ends as a growing medium, it ends with agriculture and many more. And here we are being wise about what climate policy is. The most disastrous climate policy, Mr President, is that we ship foreign energy to Finland and at the same time throw security of supply into a scrap heap. This is an irresponsible policy. If this continues, this nation will be
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u352	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kivelä, for your very good speech earlier, and I think it was a well-founded withdrawal of this matter tax. I am surprised at the loud reaction from the other side of the Chamber, because it is the starting point of taxation, or at best it is based on these outsourcing handicaps, which, if we consider wood burning, are significant. The tax treatment of wood burning does not correspond to the environmental damage it causes, so this is clearly a place for repair. This heat pump issue is, in itself, a very good point in the other direction, and it is clear that, when this transition is so rapid, a variety of public instruments will also be needed for those non-combustible technologies. I would have asked about this restoration of the swamps. From a biodiversity point of view, there is indeed a significant need for it, and it is probably equivalent to what we have in terms of peat.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u353	Mr President! I hope that Mr Hoskonen could come to visit the Vantaan Energia, where we are going to give up the combustion of peat at the bio-power plant next year, and that in fact has nothing to do with how the government treats peat taxation, but this decision has already been taken in the past. Technology to replace peat as a support fuel has been developed and now it has been found and peat burning can be abandoned. This biofuel plant is also a transitional solution until at some point we can achieve full fossil-free energy production. Mr President! I would also like to thank you for the fact that the national parks are now being repaired and the debt to repair is being closed. Nature improves resistance, and it is great that nature exercise has increased significantly. There are now quite new research results from the children, that by adding more nature to the daycare centre’s courtyards, resistance is improved. I would hope that in future so with regard to the increase in physical activity
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u354	Mr President! In this way, Finns have found Finnish nature and enjoyed it, and these excursions have also become familiar to a great many. That is why I think it is very good that we are now catching up with the correction debt for Metsähallitus routes and national parks, as has been pointed out in several speeches. When I listened to the speeches made by the Finns of Peru, is it really the case that the Finns of Peru cut the budget for these items and reduce these important places for people to walk and move? I don't really understand the starting point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u357	Thank you. — I give Mr Taimela a reply. After that, Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u358	Mr President! Apart from these important environmental issues, housing policy is strongly under the administration of Minister of the Environment Mikkonen, and there are some examples of this. In other words, the State is investing in strengthening the economic situation in the construction sector, and employment in the construction sector is also supported by an increase in the investment mandate of the Senate Group's businesses to EUR 480 million, which has not been much discussed in this debate. It must also be said with great satisfaction that the authorisation of interest subsidies has now been raised to a sufficient level that the Government Programme's objective can be achieved on its behalf. We hope that affordable and affordable housing will be the goal of this whole Chamber, and it will also be in the government's will state, and I must say that it will also require a great deal of work throughout the parliamentary term. New green growth will be sought through this renewed industrial strategy programme, which will be completed by 2021, and now I hope in this question battery that if and when Minister Mikkonen can open it in his next response, this Chamber will hear about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u359	Mr President! I shall now continue with these themes, which have just not been dealt with. I am very pleased that a great deal of water protection has been raised here, including the Baltic Sea and the Archipelago Sea, and thank you especially for that to the representatives of the coalition, who have spoken a great deal about this. It is quite true that our Archipelago Sea is the only hotspot area in Finland, ie, this kind of Baltic Sea particularly eutrophic area, and work is being done on it. Together with the Ministry of Agriculture and Employment, we have also tackled this, because this is, of course, a topic that unites all three ministries, and the fact that we can make the manure use of it, we can reuse nutrients and we can produce biogas from it and thus reduce nutrient discharges, is indeed a multi-winner situation, and that is what we are trying to do. Then there was a lot of talk about peat. It is extremely important that we ensure that the transition away from peat is done fairly. As many Members have pointed out here, the decline in peat energy use has already taken place before this tax increase, which is only coming next year, because it is known that fossils must be removed. Of course, these non-combustible solutions are those that are needed above all, but certainly also in part of Finland, especially in small localities, if there is no waste heat or other available, the wood will also be burned, and it is important to ensure that there is no material wood in it. Congressman Mykkänen asked about the taxation of heat pumps. The intention is to have them in that lower category of electricity tax in the next year, but this still requires confirmation from the EU, and this is in progress. The National Parks rose in many speeches — no wonder, because they are places that Finns love and, above all, this corona period has made it visible. Buildings are being repaired, tallow trees are being made, sanded, made different things that need to be done, not just in national parks but in other areas. We have also directed funding to municipalities to enable municipalities, for example, to repair their own recreational and hiking areas. I also launched a report on the safety of national parks, particularly with regard to these structures, but also with regard to traffic, which has been very crowded and this unfortunate hunting accident took place in the FAQ park. We want to make sure that the national parks are safe for everyone to move around. A lot of the circular economy was raised here. It is currently preparing a strategic programme for the circular economy. In cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, three Ms and the Ministry of the Environment, it is precisely to ensure that we get out of this linear economic thinking into a circular economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u360	Then let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u361	Mr President! The text parts of the 21 draft budget for the Ministry of the Environment's administrative sector would be interesting material for new-language researchers. Of course, there are no such researchers in a language - using country. There is a huge gap in intellectual dishonesty between the new language objectives of the Ministry of the Environment and the real impact of policy measures. It is sold to decision-makers and citizens that the carbon neutrality target of 2035 and the 1.5-degree limitation target of warming should create sustainable growth, which is also called green growth. But that is how the new language works: the collapse of the economy and well-being is a lasting, dramatic cut in consumption growth. In Finland, the 1.5-degree target requires a reduction in the carbon footprint of citizens to one tenth of the current one. Even if what is done in global production and supply chains, the goal would also require a huge reduction in consumption — really huge. Developed economies are based on productivity and distribution of labour distribution and specialisation. Without consumption, they will not be able to maintain close to the current levels of population, not to mention helping emerging economies. Without consumption, we would only legislate here when we had to leave our lint fields. Finnish ordinary citizens have no idea yet what a change in living standards would require of them in this pursuit of 1.5 degree. In fact, the plan for implementing the ideologies of the Green Left contains the idea that it is neither possible nor intended to achieve the objective through the voluntary choices of the citizens. Under the guise of noble goals, society is led into a totalitarian system, because in a green left ideology the people do not know what is best for themselves. Such dystopias always collapse in their own impossibility, but after extreme suffering. But this is the aim of this new language: that the people do not understand what is being achieved here, where we are going. Mr President! Our real and urgent conservation needs relate to the conservation of biodiversity, to the mechanical, chemical and biological prevention of environmental pollution, and to the conservation and improvement of arable land. Failure to do so will kill us much faster and more securely than climate change. On the other hand, with modern technology, these goals can be achieved without destroying democratic society and without undermining the standard of living and well-being of citizens. That is precisely why it is critically important for the green left agenda to set goals that cannot even be achieved, and that is why it is the CO2 that has been chosen as the enemy. It is the only way to maintain an ever-increasing state of alarm and to justify narrowing civil rights and freedoms and constantly tightening regulation. The cost of red-green politics for our young people is terrible. Painting the inevitable climate disaster only creates that powerlessness, hopelessness, and anxiety, because the individual is unable to reduce his carbon footprint to a tenth of the required time. Everyone, if not consciously, understands it, at least subconsciously. One of Finland's biggest puzzles today is why the city centre and the people of the country have been exposed to the cuckolds of the green left agenda. The only thing that the centre and the coalition can achieve in this way is the destruction of Finland and its own existence. The UN Secretary-General calls on all countries to declare a climate emergency. Instead, Finland should declare a state of emergency of economy and moral hazard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u362	Mr President! Now we are living in the crucial moments that determine whether future generations will also be able to breathe clean air and enjoy the diverse nature of our planet. So we are not just deciding on matters relating to the next few years; we are deciding on something much bigger. We decide on the right of future generations to clean nature, healthy air and well-being. The SDP is strongly committed to halting climate change. Mr President! In next year's budget, nature conservation has made a strong contribution. The level of funding will be up to EUR 100 million higher in the coming year than at the beginning of the Government term. Funding implements important nature conservation programmes to protect the diversity of our forests and bogs, for example. The implementation of the plastic road map will continue and an appropriation of EUR 1.25 million will be set aside for the development of the waste sector and product data monitoring system. In addition, the budget includes a number of other excellent projects, such as promoting climate-friendly wood construction, accelerating housing construction in growing areas and promoting the ecology of residential buildings through energy aid. Climate work in municipalities and regions will also be accelerated. Mr President! Climate action also provides concrete support for employment. Finns have long-term expertise and experience in taking environmental values into account in manufacturing. That is something we must appreciate. This is our absolute strength, which must now be exploited in every way when capital is looking for those carbon-free alternatives. The global market is huge, and it is also open to Finns. I particularly welcome the reduction of the electricity tax on industry to the minimum level in the EU, the abolition of the energy tax refund system for industry over a transitional period of four years, and energy support to support the transition of industry to zero-emission technologies. We need a sustainable green industry in Finland that secures jobs and security of supply. The future is quite bright for the Finnish environmentally friendly and clean technology industry as a whole, although others may argue otherwise. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u363	Mr President! I'll continue with the protection of water bodies and the status of water bodies. It is wonderful to hear that the Ministry of the Environment cooperates with other ministries, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy in order to further improve water protection and, in particular, to reduce the discharge of manure nutrients and agricultural nutrients into watercourses. As the Minister said, the Archipelago Sea is the only hotspot region in Finland, i.e. the region where the values of nutrient discharges are very high, even though much has been done, and I am sure that farmers are doing their best. However, emissions have not been significantly reduced and this work must be pursued with ambition. It is also very good that the Committee on Finance added funding for the Keeping the Archipelago as Clean. These are, in fact, the kind of funding that Parliament is quite natural to increase from its own added appropriations, one-off when they are, and this ship will really need it. Mr President! Now we will also continue to close the public administration tasks of Metsähallitus, i.e. the correction debt of our national parks. That is a very good thing. The report by the Committee on Finance states that the number of visitors to nature reserves has increased rapidly in recent years and the impact of the corona crisis has further increased their use. However, here in urban areas, national parks may not often be located in the very centre of the cities, but in the vicinity, and they are an extension of their own recreational and outdoor areas, and the increase in the number of visitors has been quite staggering now, even in the wake of the corona crisis. I live right next door to Sipoonkorve National Park, and I have seen with my own eyes how the number of visitors is rising. There Metsähallitus has invested in routing and signalling, but it has still not been enough to respond to the increase in the number of visitors, and I therefore hope that the Ministry of the Environment will still be able to consider whether there will be additional funds available for these very popular southern national parks to improve the routes and possibly also the continuing problem of parking places, as there will be no public transport to the national parks and there will have to be a place for cars other than the highway where they will be left. I wish the Minister could take this with him from my speech. Mr President! As far as I am concerned, I think it is all right to have new national parks set up for us, but on the other hand, even more importantly, I feel that once new national parks have been set up, it will be possible to allocate them enough money to put the routes in order. For example, Sipoonkorpi is a good example — or indeed a bad example — of the fact that, in the early stages, the budget was insufficient and the natural consumption was reasonably high, because the number of visitors immediately after the establishment of the national park is growing rapidly. We in the City of Vantaa have improved routes and signs and also built a bridge that leads from the popular outdoor area of Kuusjärvi to the National Park, and this has further increased the use of the National Park. Mr President! On this side of this year, a study was published that nature and the addition of municipality and grass to the yard of kindergartens will significantly improve children’s resistance even within a month. I would therefore like the Ministry of the Environment, together with the Ministry of Education and Culture, to be able to promote the creation of a programme in the courtyards of kindergartens, in which the addition of nature to the courtyards of kindergartens — where it is not natural — could be promoted. I believe that it would be an effort which, with time, could quickly repay itself not only on reduced days of illness, but also on the very fact that nature is good for all of us and that the effects of mental health, often even in adults, are significant when you are able to move around in nature. Mr President! I welcome the fact that the government is now also investing in nature conservation and improving biodiversity. We still have a job to do. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u364	Mr President! So much is also good in the Ministry of the Environment's budget for next year, but before I go into all the good things, I will say the same thing that I also say in that debat, that in order for Finland to achieve the carbon neutrality objectives of 2035, we would have to make more precise policies and also see both tax decisions and environmental decisions in general, including transport solutions. It is thought that there has been quite a lot of talk about transport this autumn, but I still do not know what the government's agreement is on reducing emissions from transport, among other things. There is no closer agreement on the floor price model and the compensation aid for emissions trading and its fate, and many other decisions were pushed forward again. We all know that environmental and climate issues are such that they should no longer be able to move and wait at the beginning of this decade. I myself joined politics twenty years ago, and then I thought that the environment was not a gift from past generations, but a gift from future lenders, and in particular it is being measured now in this 20th century, of which one year is already behind and almost two years of this government's time. Mr President! Indeed, these appropriations are good for Metsähallitus. After the report by the Committee on Finance, there were also additions. Representative Multala said about this that it is good for children to get around in nature and also to go there. It occurred to me when the first-born is now 10 years old, that when he was less than one year old and in the yard of our apartment building often then I allowed him to walk by the soil and various plants, the yard grandfather, who lived in that building company, said that ‘jahas,there is a need for vitamin O’,that is to say,all the A,B,C and other vitamins are added to each one of the need-to-resistance vitamin O’s,and different kinds of multars and mones of nature are good for children. Well, then, Mr President, the government is adding two national parks during this reign. National parks are popular hiking sites and are also similar geoparks, of which Rokua’s geopark has been a long time, for ten years. I would also like funds to be found there and two geoparks to be treated in the same way as our national park, i.e. the Ministry of the Environment, to demonstrate not only resources but also expertise and commitment. A national park in Hossa was established last season and a constructive and good, open preparation was started for the process. From the outset, local actors, entrepreneurs and hunters were involved in this process. I would like the government to continue this work for next year as well, as these two national parks are about to be presented. And when Mr Mikkonen is here to listen to this debate with merit, I certainly call for constructive action to be taken here. Last season, the Environment Committee even looked at these alternatives to national parks before the then Environment Minister Tiilikainen presented this Finland 100 national park in Hossa. It was indeed a good process and a very important process in terms of cooperation and trust, because unfortunately, the preparation of these national parks has resulted in a certain lack of confidence with local actors over the decades. I will take an example of the no-hunting area of Pallas-Yllästunturi National Park, where, according to the rules of order, local residents have the right to hunt in their municipality of residence in accordance with the hunting law, but hunting is not allowed in areas close to the Ylläs and Pallastunturi tourist centre, which is quite understandable. But the area is therefore wide, where it is banned from hunting, 30000 hectares, and this area has been added to this regulation since then,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u365	Let us now turn to one more speech, then to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u366	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate. With regard to these environmental issues, I hope that we will broadly stick to the correct figures, which are by nature what they are. As far as the transition to peat is concerned, it is quite strange to count the matter in this house, Mr President, that the removal of peat from the market saves emissions, but no one has counted the huge emissions that are caused when goods are shipped around the world. Minister, you have not responded to the huge risk of insect destruction when driving them here from Central Europe last summer for millions of mots killed in insects and fungal diseases. We have a law, the so-called bug law, according to which the forest owner is forced to dispose of every log of the road after the midsummer, and it is properly guarded by the authorities, but no one is watching it when shiploads of insects and fungal diseases are driven to Finland. The climate has warmed up, as we know, a huge risk is being taken, but no one seems to be replacing it with the fact that when you drive wood chips and energy from various other countries, there is a huge amount of emissions. It was calculated with the old sea captain that when a small chipper leaves the Dutch coast to come here, that one third, a quarter of the calorific value of the chippings will be used to go into the wind toward the north. It doesn't make any sense. Jobs go away, unemployment increases, entrepreneurs go bankrupt and Finland becomes poorer. This is not going to go on for long. We take 20 billion dollars a year, and we're about to be like screaming boys on the world market, and we can't even get our own energy together. At the moment, we have a situation where domestic energy suppliers are about to stop harvesting forest chips when it is not worth it when you have to hate peat. And at the same time, there is talk of reducing and saving emissions. When are we going to stop, Mr President? This job doesn't make any sense anymore. I can't keep it quiet when this is untruthful information. We have huge numbers of panels in all the world in this country, but no one has counted the emissions as we drive coal from Vorkuta or get chipped from Russia so that no Finnish chipper can compete with Russian chippings. There's no such thing as a chip supplier. When it comes to Finland for 14 to 15 euros, it does not even correspond to the harvesting costs, which comes from the forest when the tree is driven to the roadside. And here we are heavenizing the half-truths of all the world, and then we claim that peat is polluting. Yes, the truth must have value. I can't handle this. When we make so-called non-combustible solutions in Finland, no one happens to ask when they will come. You can't stop making district heat or electricity with CHP power for 20 years, because those big solutions don't come until sometimes with a long delay. You can't expect innovative solutions in a 30-degree freezer, you might catch a chill inside the cabin. Should we in the little parliament sometimes focus on this truth too? I am getting tired of this constant climate blow, but no one seems to be interested in what emissions are going to be when these goods are being transported around the world and there is a huge risk to be taken. Forest logging is not the destruction of nature, it is the best protection of forests. At the same time, when you are constantly presenting more protected areas in the section of the Ministry of the Environment, you will accept a huge increase in emissions and a reduction in carbon sinks. When the forest is calmed down, it gradually becomes a carbon sink. Forest management keeps those carbon sinks in order. A 100 - year - old spruce produces much more carbon dioxide in the air than it binds itself. In the koiviko, the disease begins at the age of 50, preferably at the age of 40.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u367	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u368	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u369	Thank you for this good debate, and I really hope that the truth will be kept here. For example, the fact that climate work in some way would deprive us of jobs and cause us a great deal of misery. That is not true. As many have said, we know precisely that at the moment new jobs are being created in green growth sectors and investments are going to do so. If we look back, then since 1990 emissions within the EU have been reduced by 25% and, at the same time, the EU economy has grown by 60%. In other words, the fact that climate action would lead to economic ruin is not true. Then here we have a good debate on these national parks: It is very important that we also have national parks in areas that can also be reached by public transport. And in fact, now that these different proposals came all over Finland, we took as one of the selection criteria that the connections to the national park would either already be, as Salla, for example, accessible to the public, or it would be easy to create them. This is a very important issue. In preparing national parks, of course, we assume that we will go together with the region to build and find good alternatives. In Salla, that work has already come a long way. There has been this kind of regional team that has there locally wondered where it park comes from and what kind of limits it has. That is why we are now making rapid progress with regard to Salla. As far as Evo is concerned, we now want this kind of regional working group to think about these same things and together find those solutions so that we can get there a park that everyone feels is owning and important. Then, of course, there was much discussion here about the peat, and here too was the restoration of the swamps. It is a climate action that helps both in climate work and in biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u370	The debate and the debate will be suspended and resumed later in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u371	The general debate on Section 35 of the Ministry of the Environment, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u372	Mr President! The government's budget proposal has been criticised with a heavy hand and on the subject, but on the night of the opening of the feedback debate a verbal coffin must also be opened in respect of thanks. Colleagues here will certainly deal with deserved criticism, particularly in the case of peat, white tails and so on, others like them, and we can certainly count on Mrs Huru here. But these can also be discussed in the section of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, so I shall now mention the good that the government, or at least the officials, have prepared for this budget. Especially for Varsinais-Suomi and the Archipelago Sea is a very important project in the memory of men. I am referring to the application of plaster to reduce eutrophication in the Baltic Sea to land in the catchment areas of the Archipelago Sea. The idea could be considered questionable at best, but this is the most important and concrete project for the Baltic Sea, which Finland has invested in for decades. I would have asked Minister Mikkos if they would also make this a long-term plan, so that the ‘UniqueSeritory Sea’, which focuses on the distribution of plaster, can also take a very long time. After next year too, water protection in the Archipelago Sea will need to be stepped up and sufficient resources will be made available to improve and protect it. The gypsum is a cost-effective circular economy solution and, however, it is a temporary measure that needs to be repeated. This does not entail any costs for the farmer. On the contrary, many farmers are very happy and willing to participate in this operation. Major efforts will continue to be needed to help this serious situation. So thank you to the government for this. Parliament has allocated a total of EUR 22 million for this and the next two years. In order to clean up our seas, we need to stop eutrophication, and this is done by reducing phosphorus discharges. It should be stressed that this work is only just beginning. Finally, it should be pointed out to Mr Hopsu that the Parliament's nature group, which emerged in that earlier debate, is still working in the footsteps of Mr Salolainen today. The last meeting of the nature group was held on 24 November and is chaired by Mr Petelius, the representative's party partner. In fact, that November meeting dealt with an issue that has been less discussed, namely the impact of the corona period on nature. Unfortunately, corona restrictions led to the fact that in the past, when experiences and calming down were sought in nature, some items were affected by littering, interference and wear and tear, especially here in southern Finland. It often made more sense, therefore, to go away from the actual national parks. At the same time, there was clear alienation from nature, which in itself is quite shocking, but there is also, of course, the possibility of development. I therefore believe that Metsähallitus' activities should be supported by giving a bigger foothold to Finland's largest hiking organisation, the Finnish Ladu. In Norway, for example, Den Norske Turistforening plays an important role in maintaining routes and logs. If the role of Metsähallitus were to be reconsidered, I think they could focus more on maintaining the shelters and places of fire, and then the focus of the refurbishment of the routes could be transferred to hiking organisations. For this, too, thank the government for the fact that sufficient funds have been allocated to these in this budget. But for such a thing to succeed, of course, it would also require new efforts to keep the hiking trail in better condition. Many routes that are not so well known in Finland are in quite shocking condition. But it is also clear that the relationship between the people's nature has deteriorated when we hang out in social media night and day. It would therefore be good if the use of the map, compass and other navigational equipment were also given guidance, perhaps free of charge. Nature guides have been discussed here, and resources have also been made available to them. However, it would also be a good idea to invest in being able to move around in the natural environment in a sustainable and safe way. In any case, especially in the case of nature tourism, the government's efforts are worthy of commendation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u373	Mr President! A few words on the basis of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment. The Government's investments in protecting nature and the environment are visible to us all as cleaner waters and air, well-guided hiking trails, diverse mushroom and berry forests, effective climate measures and a safe living environment. However, the Ministry of the Environment’s money pool is only a small part of the entire budget of the state, which is why it cannot be left to the Ministry of the Environment alone. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection therefore stresses in its own opinion that the state budget must be systematically assessed from the point of view of their climate and natural impacts. It is great that the level of funding for nature conservation remains high, at EUR 142 million, and in the supplementary draft budget some EUR 20 million was added to nature conservation. As a result of the Korona crisis, the value of national parks and hiking areas and nearby recreation areas has really been understood and their use has increased severalfold. In addition to the number of protected areas, the link between nature and forest areas is essential. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also raised this point in its own opinion. In southern Finland in particular, we need more action to strengthen biodiversity in this respect too. In the ongoing reform of the Land Use and Building Act, the strengthening of biodiversity is therefore an important starting point for preparation. With this budget, we will continue to close the correction debt for nature conservation areas and cultural heritage sites. In addition to serving hikers in good condition and well-functioning protected areas, local tourism entrepreneurs and the economy as a whole benefit from them. The theme of joy is the successful Helmi Life Environment Programme, through which we have managed to protect the bogs and other valuable habitats and species living in them. In order to promote nature conservation, it is also important to strengthen the effectiveness of the Nature Conservation Act and to ensure the conditions of the Nature Panel. Mr President! As has been said in several speeches, the protection of the Baltic Sea continues to require measures. The water protection improvement programme will continue, but the focus will have to be moved even after that. We also need planned water protection work after the end of the 23rd programme. The Committee on the Environment also draws attention to the lack of resources for monitoring environmental protection. In particular, the state of resources in the Ely Centres' environmental responsibility areas varies, and in some cases their ability to carry out risk assessment controls has deteriorated. This is worrying. The situation is very challenging in Uusimaa. This is important because much is being built in Uusimaa and therefore there is a lot to monitor. Mr President! Housing generates a significant share of household climate emissions, so housing policy must also take into account the possibilities to curb climate emissions from construction and housing. With this budget, we will enable many climate works in housing and construction, such as subsidies for wood construction, the abandonment of oil heating and the construction of an electric car charging infrastructure. Finally, a few words on the fight against climate change. Finland’s objective of achieving carbon neutrality by 2035 and carbon neutrality shortly thereafter requires extensive action in various administrative sectors. Coordination responsibility for climate policy lies with the Ministry of the Environment, but the actions and their funding by different administrations. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection stresses the importance of climate change legislation in improving the coordination of climate policy. Law-making resources to ensure high-quality law-making must be ensured. The Climate Panel is a very important player in the field of climate policy. It produces independent scientific information for the preparation and decision-making of climate policy and for civil dialogue. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has therefore considered it important to secure the work of the climate panel. Moreover, the committee emphasises informed decision-making. That is why it is important to secure the resources of the nature panel and the climate panel and the preparation of legislation in general, so that we really know what is being decided and that good and wise, far-reaching decisions can be made on behalf of the environment and the climate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u374	Mr President! Coronavirus pandemic has, as expected and rightly, taken up the airspace of public debate. However, it is important to note that, alongside the health crisis, the issues of climate change and biodiversity have not disappeared anywhere. On the contrary, both call for urgent action. And just as Mr Kivelä said in the previous debate, the pandemic has contributed to the health threat posed by the exploitation of human nature. Government budget proposals for next year will take into account both the loss of climate change and diversity, these vast phenomena that affect the viability of our planet. In the budget debate, the Government proposes a wide range of concrete steps towards a carbon neutral and biodiversity-friendly Finland. During this reign, the Helmi programme has been actively promoted, with which we have managed to protect and restore the bogs, improve the condition of traditional biotopes, refurbish, for example, bird wetlands and manage forested habitats. Over 4,000 hectares of values have already been protected. Efforts have also been made to improve the status of the water bodies, especially the condition of the Baltic Sea, during this term of government. The water catchment area of the Archipelago Sea has applied gypsum to the fields, which reduces the amount of phosphorus and solids in the Baltic Sea. In addition, forest protection has progressed well through the Metso programme. There is also a growing need for protected areas. In general, the budget for nature conservation has been historically high during this government term, and the same ambitious work on biodiversity and nature conservation will continue next year, as the supplementary proposal for the 21st budget provided an additional EUR 19.5 million for nature conservation, so the level will remain at the level of EUR 100 million. In an interview with Yle, the Director of the Centre for Biodiversity, Petri Ahlroth, has found that there are long-term resources to manage weakened habitats. This is where he takes the hat off to the present government and the government program. However, researchers point out that we also need large-scale policy changes, i.e. structural reforms, as our economy and society as a whole continue to be built on nature. So the government receives both encouragement and challenge from researchers — there is still a lot of work to be done. Mr President! The Government Programme already sought phenomenalism. The fight against climate change and the achievement of the objective of carbon neutrality by 2035 call for cross-sector action. Coordination responsibility for climate policy lies with the Ministry of the Environment, a responsible and demanding task to ensure the effectiveness of the operator, but also the simultaneous failure to take measures that have the opposite, detrimental effect on the objective. How can we further strengthen this do no harm principle and its implementation and cross-sectoral guidance? This issue is even more relevant now that, through the EU's sustainable growth programme, we can mobilise around EUR 3 billion in green transition and recovery measures. On this point, I welcome the positive contributions made by the Social Democrats in the previous debate in the Chamber, which raised and understood the potential of industry and exports as a source of solutions for climate operators. The strengthening of the Climate Act and the updating of the medium-term climate policy plan, KAISU, are at least some means of this cross-sectoral steering. The Committee also stresses in particular the great impact of measures taken by municipalities and regions. It is good that an additional EUR 5 million will now be available for these projects. I would also like to highlight the importance of the circular economy in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the use of natural resources. This is why it is great that Finland still wants to be a pioneer in the circular economy, and this year a strategic programme for the development of the circular economy is being completed and measures are being taken to monitor it. Hopefully, the EU recovery package can also be used to implement this programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u375	Mr President! The Baltic Sea has always provided and will, hopefully, always offer experiences and well-being to people and tourists living in its coastal regions. However, the Baltic Sea has become highly eutrophic, even though nutrient discharges that are eutrophic to the sea may have decreased in recent years. Eutrophication is due to excessive phosphorus and nitrogen loads in the sea. These oversized nutrient emissions are reflected, among other things, in blue algae blooms, water opacity, beach slimming and bottom area oxidation. Mr President! The Government Programme promises a total of more than EUR 250 million for nutrient cycle and water protection projects during this parliamentary term — thanks to the Government. However, the money from the protection project threatens to disappear into decentralised measures. Experts from the Finnish Environment Agency and the Finnish Environment Agency, among others, believe that conservation funds would be more effective if they were concentrated on a few larger projects. Unfortunately, the responsible minister is not here to follow the debate, but I would have liked to have made sure of his response to criticism of this kind.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u376	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u377	Mr President! The government's most ambitious EU objective of carbon neutrality is reflected in the draft budget of the Ministry of the Environment for 21, which totals hundreds of millions, with a growth of several tens of million euros for 2020 and an increase in hundreds of man-years. In addition, the government has made tax increases which may appear to be small but have a larger impact. Finland is a sparsely populated country with long distances, where the use of its own car is often the only way to move. Increases in fuel tax increase the cost of working and cut people’s purchasing power. In remote areas, public transport does not work, and it is not possible to use it anywhere but in growth centres. Tax increases also penalise, for example, the transport sector and export companies, as the increase in logistics costs weakens their competitiveness. In terms of security of supply in Finland, the functioning of the energy system and an adequate degree of domesticity are essential. An increase in the tax on peat will inevitably result in an uncontrolled dismantling of the sector, resulting in the loss of thousands of jobs and a loss of revenue of up to EUR 900 million. When peat incineration is replaced by wood chips, the increase in demand will increase the price of all wood materials and the price of energy and also district heat that consumers pay. The adequacy of the wood chip and the increased costs are at their worst threatening the billion-class biorefinery projects planned for Finland and guiding material wood for incineration. The rise in the price of wood and wood chips following the felling of the peat sector also reduces the profitability of the Finnish sawmill industry when the costs of tax increases cannot be passed on to the sales prices. The increased demand for the application is replaced by a foreign import application, whose transport to Finland increases global CO2 emissions and directs cash flows and jobs abroad. Peat decisions have significant impacts at national level. Vapo sold the district heating company Nevel, which he owned under duress, to the French investment company, and it remains to be seen whether this will be the next Caruna. The EU's most ambitious objective of carbon neutrality in the Marin government has significantly increased our land risk vis-à-vis our competitors.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u378	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u380	Mr President! Before the parliamentary elections, eight parliamentary parties committed themselves to common climate guidelines. These guidelines are also reflected in the Government programmes of Rinte and then of Marin as climate policy objectives. We have committed ourselves to these common climate guidelines before the elections and have also promoted them in our own actions and in our own solutions. Sometimes the question arises as to whether the government is similarly committed to these objectives, as action is still awaited and effective decisions are passed on. When policies have been adopted, they have raised more questions than answers. For example, the reform of energy taxation, the halving of emissions from transport, this preparation of the floor price mechanism for peat, the Climate Fund and so on are examples of policies that have been adopted in principle, but those concrete solutions are still awaited, and a lot of questions remain in the air. The question also arises as to why the government has not wanted the opposition to engage in climate policy. If something were to be a theme where it would be important for us to work together across party boundaries, across government-opposition boundaries, because climate policy, if something is to be done over the parliamentary term, will also be able to look at future periods. This cooperation was started before the elections with eight parties, but for some reason the present government has not wanted to continue this good cooperation, but the opposition has been excluded from the climate policy work, this round table work, despite the efforts being made to pursue this cooperation all the way through. Well, in this budget, however, the government can be praised for its efforts in nature conservation and also in the protection of water bodies. The government is taking the loss of nature seriously, and this is something to be commended for. The funding of nature conservation work will continue, and this is also considered important by the Coalition Party. One example is the continuity of the implementation of Metso's Forest Biodiversity Programme in Southern Finland. This programme has produced good results, with broad support, and we believe that the voluntary model of Metso could be extended to all habitats. As far as forest policy is concerned, we would have enormous potential in protecting forests in Southern Finland, as the conservation levels here in the South are still very small. There would also be a great deal of potential in the protection of state forests that is not yet being exploited. Thank you, too, for the decisions that the government has taken to support migratory fish stocks and for the small amounts that have been allocated to this work. We believe that, in addition to the appropriations, modern fishing obligations should also be widely implemented in the case of old and small dams. As far as fishing is concerned, it should also be noted that in this year's corona, more and more Finns have found not only nature interests and national parks, as has been mentioned in several speeches, but also fishing interests, which is gratifying, and this increase in the number of recreational fishermen should also be reflected in the provision of advice, for example, and thanks to the fact that such a small additional allocation has been found. As far as water systems are concerned, I should like to raise the issue of underwater protection, which has been overlooked too little. We have more and more information about the underwater habitat and its importance for biodiversity, but most of this underwater nature remains outside the existing protected areas, an extremely valuable nature. This is something that we would like to pay attention to, because there is a great deal of potential here too. A targeted 1% increase in protected areas could double the protection potential of the euro. Water protection is invested in this budget and Government Programme Based on the work begun during the Sipilä regime. This is a great thing and we are united across party lines. As Mr Heikkinen said, these nutrient cycle and water protection projects are quite a substantial sum earmarked for use during this parliamentary term, a total of over EUR 250 million. We should now ensure that this funding is not dispersed into a large number of small, inefficient projects, but that it is allocated to the most critical areas. After all, we have one hotspot area in Finland, which is there in the Archipelago Sea catchment area, and that is why we have proposed that funding be allocated to this particular critical area. Let me mention: the Minister also raised the issue of gypsum treatment as one of the measures to reduce nutrient leaching, but it is not the only one and it is not suitable for all fields, so we should also extend to other options to reduce these nutrient leaching and promote the nutrient cycle.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u381	Mr President! As a follow-up to the previous speaker: Yes, especially in the clay fields of south-west Finland, gypsum treatment and therefore an excellent measure suitable for the Baltic Sea rescue programme. It's worth it. There the John Nurminen Foundation has done good research from this very Baltic sector, and I openly flag it. But all in all, what has now been said in this debate, yes, there are good things in the section of the Ministry of the Environment, particularly with regard to biodiversity and its preservation. However, I would like to point out a little how it has been possible to deal with the fact that we have cormorants in Satakunta. With regard to protected birds, which cause damage to fishermen, the Ministry of the Environment has excluded professional fishing as a whole from the area of compensation for damage. I believe that this is an unconstitutional measure, because agriculture, fish farming and reindeer farming are being compensated — and in full. It is somehow incredible that we in the 100th century are in some kind of unequal position and one of our professional fishermen has been left out of the fact that the freedom to pursue a business is not at the same level as agriculture. That is one of the things I would like to point out to the Ministry of the Environment — and that is not the end of it. It is a pity that, as a representative of the Government Party, we have to raise issues which have not exactly come to fruition with what I would have liked. It is also unreasonable that the handicaps caused by white cheek geese, the spring changes, are absolutely incomprehensible in the wrong compensation procedure. If you talk about compensation damage in the way that you have a car and calculate the average cost of all cars in accidents, then that happens for all fields. I do not think it is justified, and that is why we must be able to deal with the fact that the real damage is being compensated. The fact that there was this kind of goose fist that produced the end, is good, now two ministries have even done some cooperation, but it appears that there is still a terrible dispute and arm wrestling between the two ministries. I would like to see some peace in this regard. Mr President! I find it unreasonable for us to have to discuss here the relationship between the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of the Environment. I dare to bring this up, because it is quite incomprehensible that both sides are playing harms for each other to compensate for. This contributes nothing but hatred for birds and wolves and officials. Now these two ministries must be able to wrink a common vision of how we take care of the Finnish environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u382	Mr President! I, on the other hand, would also like to raise some happy news. There is no point in not mentioning them. So I would like to join the group that praised the decision we made here in the committee to keep Archipelago Coolinä ry's ship project. In addition, two other projects are also progressing in the Saimaa region, where access to the Saimaa Norppasaari archipelago can be promoted as a UNESCO natural heritage site. Necessary projects. And when the family roots are there in Savo and in the Saimaa region, I can also enjoy these as a summer resident. I am also pleased that the funding of environmental and nature organisations remains at the same level as last year. The committee added EUR 100,000 to environmental education for FEE, which was the Society of Environmental Education in the past, but 2018 changed its name in line with this international Foundation for Environmental Education, which is their umbrella organisation. Their programmes are known for example for the Green Flag activity, which schools and kindergartens are doing well, and also for this Green Key certificate, which is once again this green tourism. And, as Mr Junnila has already mentioned in his previous speech, this creation of a relationship with nature, which is particularly affected by environmental organisations and education, is very important and important. For example, the Finnish Latu and the Scouts are important actors. It is good that their funding has also been secured.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u383	Mr President! Germany wants to be a progressive leader in climate policy. Whether they have succeeded depends on who is asked, but what is certain is that Germany needs the green hydrogen economy as the cornerstone of its future energy policy. From this we can conclude that the hydrogen economy will also come north at a speed. Hydrogen is much more than just an energy source for cars. Hydrogen helps to compensate for fluctuations in energy production and consumption, enabling for example increased solar and wind power in our energy system. Hydrogen can therefore be used to store energy, and Finnish large companies such as Wärtsilä, St1, Fortum, Kemira, Neste and UPM-Kymmene already have advanced hydrogen plans and experiments. Mr President! The hydrogen economy is already here, but has the government taken it seriously in its budget, for example, and invested enough in implementing the hydrogen strategy?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u384	Mr President! Of course, we should thank and praise the committee for this. The previous vessel investment was made possible in a similar way last season. It was a very important decision to secure waste management and other support services in the Archipelago Sea region, which are extremely important to the environment and water, and this is now a very welcome and justified decision for Saimaa, and I am very pleased that such a concrete decision has been reached in this period through cooperation across party borders. Let me just say a few more words about these financing patterns for water protection. Indeed, experts from MTK to nature conservation organisations or experts from Syke have expressed concern that funding is being poured into too small projects around Finland. A genuine impact, an effective effect, would be achieved if the forces were concentrated on effective local action in that hotspot area. This is exactly what we have proposed in the assembly that rather than the fragmented funding of water protection, we should put together impressive projects in the hotspot area and diversify this range of means in addition to this gypsum treatment, which is excellent, good, proven to be functional but not suitable for all fields. In addition, other alternatives are needed, such as the structural lime I have already mentioned, a solution that is longer than gypsum treatment, which also benefits the farmer and, for example, these fibre treatment possibilities. Other solutions have also been highlighted in the expert hearings, such as riveting and harvesting of beach mills and sustainable management fishing. These are effective measures to reduce nutrient loads and thus eutrophication and improve biodiversity, which have not really been exploited at all. We would have a lot of opportunities here, a circular economy, at its best, in a matter on which we all share a common concern. For example, by mowing and collecting this log, it would be possible to use this biomass in accordance with the circular economy principles. We proposed in the meeting that a pilot project of EUR 1 million should be earmarked for this type of action, but the Government has not now provided funding for this type of action, but that this funding for the protection of water bodies is for a very limited range of instruments, at least for the time being. All these solutions relating to the protection of water bodies, the prevention of nutrient leaching are such first aid measures. They are a patch action for an acute situation and should be accompanied by such an overall reform to address those root causes, because the beginning and root of everything is there at the beginning and root. In other words, we need to catch up on reducing the nutrient emissions of agriculture with solutions at systemic level, and here, for example, the complex package of support schemes for agriculture plays a crucial role. We would have the opportunity to reform this support system so that, for example, the condition of growth in the fields there could be promoted in ways that would also benefit farmers themselves, that is, once again this circular economy approach in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u385	Mr President! In his speech, Congressman Myllykoski mentioned white cheek geese — excuse me, cormorants, but also white cheek geese are of the same category and cause major damage. The bigger question here is also that when stocks are growing and damage is increasing, it should also be possible to discuss the need for protection or its inevitability, and especially when stocks are growing alive from those at risk, it should also be possible to change protection accordingly. This is what I would have liked with the Minister — he is now no longer here — and I asked him a question earlier about the spring banishment of white cheek geese, when it has been ruled out by strong repellents and shootings, which will be ineffective in the coming spring if this does not change, and the damage will be in line with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u386	Mr President! In this earlier debate, Mr Sirén mentioned the government's fisheries road projects, and I must say that the starting point for these fisheries road issues should be that the power companies themselves pay for the damage they cause. I have reservations about politics and thinking that profits are private, but losses are public. This is not a market economy; it is a policy that is completely out of control if this is the way to theoretically look at it. However, if public money is to be spent on these good projects as such, such as fishnets, then I believe that it should be targeted primarily at the organic by-passes, because these technical fish staircases are very poorly suited to all migratory species. In the same way, not all fish species find these technical fishes, for example, when looking at skunks or whitefish in relation to the sea trout and salmon. Above all, these technical fish roads are in fact neglecting other aquatic organisms, such as crabs or insects, i.e. they do not respond to the biodiversity of the living organic by-passes. These technical fishes also have a fairly significant problem with drifting, since the currents are usually so small that when they return to sea, the fish may no longer find themselves on the same mouth but will have to pass through the turbines. This is why I want to think that in the future we would be increasingly emphasising organic by-products in these state-assisted projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u387	Mr President! It is great that we are in the same committee, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, and now I have to say how well-informed you are about migratory fish. I do, of course, have some different views on this whole as to how the hiking fish even burns between the wings of the power plant, the skunk very well, and even the salmon molt survives. It does not need to be lifted over the dam; it will survive there, and it will be possible to live and grow at sea, from where it will rise again in four years' time. What is very important is that we see what the situation is. There has been a complaint that the Ministry of the Environment has failed to take account of the fact that these damage caused to professional fishermen has not been taken into account at all. As an incomprehensible representative of a hundred or so Member of Parliament, the damage done by cormorants to professional fishing is not quoted in any way in the preparation of legislation, even though there have been many comments in the consultation that account should be taken of the way in which professional fishing is affected by damage caused by cormorants. A fisherman from Rauma says that over the last five years, 70% of the perch has been reduced by the introduction of cormocolon into the area, and yet legislation is being introduced in such a way that the damage is not taken into account. That is why, together with Mr Estilä from the People's Party, we have lodged a complaint with the Chancellor of Justice that we have a stronger interpretation of the Nature Conservation Act than the Constitution on the protection of property, freedom of enterprise. Well, here's what's good about having so many of us here. It would be right to justify why I did so, because this only increases anti-naturalism and civil servant hatred. We must be able to overcome this and implement the fact that professional fishing is also subject to damages.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u388	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the excellent speeches in this regard. These are very important issues that were raised. Mr Heikkinen spoke convincingly about the fish, and I entirely agree with him. This would also be a point of proof for the government, even on a topical issue, when decisions are being made in relation to Sierila and there is a risk that this new investment will not be accompanied by proper care for the fish if such an establishment is still to be built there. The decisions we make in relation to climate policy, environmental policy or nature issues, for example, must be based on researched knowledge and fact. The good thing about this house is that information is quite well available and is being studied in good cooperation with experts. However, the funding of the nature panel has been somewhat missed when compared to the work of the climate panel, for example. They are very similar bodies of cooperation where researchers are dealing with current information, and last year the Coalition Party has raised this issue as it has suggested this year that the funding of the Nature Panel should be secured in the budget in the same way as the climate panel, which is to say, would establish the position that this expert work has. A few words about corporate subsidies. After all, the Coalition Party has been saying for years that the focus should be shifted towards support for product development and emission-free solutions in these business subsidies, and it is therefore surprising and even extraordinary that the government does not make use of the proposals of its own working group, the report of the State Secretary-General's working group, in its preparation for the budget. We have used it in our own alternative budget, both a year ago and now, and it would be wonderful if the government, too, were to make full use of the information and proposals produced by its own officials and assistants. The post-Corona reconstruction must be done in a sustainable way, and now we are taking decisions on the direction to which Finland will be taken after this crisis. The funding coming from the EU offers us a lot of billions of opportunities, as long as we can make the most of it in a sensible way. This, on the other hand, would require credible plans and concrete decisions on the direction of the government, such as emission reductions. With regard to the EU Recovery Fund, the Coalition Party has raised issues such as the circular economy, the promotion of the circular economy, but also the potential of hydrogen technologies, which Mr Heikkinen mentioned earlier. As far as the circular economy is concerned, I noticed that it is spoken in great terms within the government, but the appropriations are quite modest in terms of the size of the matter, particularly in the case of the Ministry of the Environment, which has the overall responsibility for coordination here. All the same, we have a lot of potential for sustainable growth in these themes. For example, hydrogen and synthetic fuels programmes have already been launched in Europe. Finland should also be involved in this work and in these opportunities. For example, hydrogen and its-based solutions are vital in sectors where electrification alone is not sufficient and, for example, in the steel industry, hydrogen technology would make it possible to achieve significant emission reductions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u389	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski raised the issue of smolts downhill here, and this is indeed a matter of life and death for these migratory fish. I welcome you to visit, for example, the Iijoki downhill fence, which guides the fish towards the sea when returning to its right grooves, and this is extremely important and progressive activity on the whole of Finland. I would also take up the problem of downhill hiking in the direction of Satakunta. For example, you have a Siuronkoski power plant in Kokemäenjoki, where even internationally endangered female eels may get stuck in these turbines and, therefore, in long fish, quite easily shredded, meaning that this problem affects equally. Hundreds like us in North Ostrobothnia. I do believe that Mrs Myllykoski is certainly quite an enlightened representative in these, but there is much work to be done so that we can solve the question of life and death for the migratory fish in the future with better solutions. As I said in the previous speech, Mr President, about these organic by-passes: they do not have the same problems as technical fish in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u390	Mr President! You don't need a lot of bulls, you get a lot of talk done. Congressman Heikkinen, please, just like this. We'll do everything we can in Satakunta. For me, that was a bit like a new issue, although I am here in the process of taking an initiative on it — as I have told Mrs Huru — that we could do a precise strike on the rise of migratory fish on the River Kokemäen. It is not just a question of fishing stairs; it is also a question of us being able to repair spawning areas there. It is the bigger thing that we must then get to the top of the water, where the variations in water surfaces in the river and in the power plants have caused the normal spawning areas. That's the problem with Kokemäki. But I believe that, here with Mr Huru, we agree that we are doing a joint... We hundreds of people when we're like these jurors and a little bit like that "no not a shitty performance," so we can also work together. And we are going to make this an initiative for action, which I believe we are all going to write down. All in all, the fish roads are a part of the possibilities. And there's more to it than just the fact that the fish is spawning. It involves tourism and the tourism industry, and it is very important in economic terms, how we can produce foreign tourists in Finland, how we can take our own recreational fishing forward. That is why, together with the MPs of the other parliamentary parties — I did not see to it that I asked the President of the Movement Now whether he was involved — I was involved in the fact that we could return fishing services and fishing permits to the stimulus voucher. I hope that, now that we have asked the tax authorities today whether it would be possible to return it there, if it is not, then of course we will start to climb along the long path of Finance Minister Vanhanen, so to speak, that we can ask how we can make it possible, because fishing is a very good form of exercise. But all in all, for this debate: I should like to thank the Members of the Assembly who are here today for this good and understanding debate, as part of this subject. Now I look forward to what Mr Huru has to say about the opposition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u391	You don't have to wait long. — Representative Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u392	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Myllykoski — I promise that with 100 vigour we will work on the spawning work of the Kokemäen River. Mr President! In addition to spawning, I would also like to mention this biodiversity, which has already been mentioned here, and its importance. Many organisations were mentioned here, including the Hunting League, which has received a grant. Of course, the aid could have been greater, because it is also extremely important for biodiversity to remove small predators and also the removal of alien species by hunting, and this work has been vigorously carried out by the Hunting Federation and trained by its members. There was also talk of the creation of a natural relationship here, and what would be better than, for example, linking a hunter’s degree to secondary education programmes. It would provide students with the best possible information about the Finnish wilderness culture and its traditions, which are rapidly disappearing from our country as our society becomes urbanised. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u393	Yes, and Mr Heikkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u394	Mr President! In this regard, Mrs Myllykoski reminded us that the rescue of migratory fish is not just a question of fishing or passing off organic fish, but a comprehensive need to develop the entire river ecosystem. By this I mean that I think that these good projects and the appropriations should also take into account the long curve that goes with them. This requires, among other things, taking care of small juvenile areas or the commitment of the power companies to give sufficient flow to these sites so that they do not close in winter and thus destroy the eggs that have been released into the water by the fish. These also often involve extremely hard-working project people who, for example, take care of the calculation of spawning nests. These are not matters that can only be dealt with in a one-year budget item, but require a long-term commitment to these targets. That is why I think it is generally extremely important that funding should be provided from those who, at local level, also collect the profits generated by its operation, i.e. these power stations must be held accountable so that they commit themselves to paying for these disadvantages to the entire region, not only to nature but also to people living along the river there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u395	Mr President! Now the representative has opened up a major issue, because there is probably an agreement on this point. I would therefore like to see the encouragement from your side that we should be able to open up the water law. It would be particularly important — not to threaten the position of power stations, but to start the debate on whether we can really replace the local residents who have lost its capital from the fisheries sector and then enable the tourism industry to produce a better chance of prosperity in the regions. Now is the time to discuss whether we can start discussing whether we can start to take the bull off the horns, so to speak, without the power plants having to be seen as a threat, because hydropower is one of the most important sources of control power in this country. We must have seen a similar play when Olkiluoto suddenly fell down. If you are familiar and inquisitive, go and see what hydropower meant when Olkiluoto fell out of the net. This debate must take place on the whole of society, which is what it is, and that is why I am so pleased that now the assembly becomes this kind of holistic view, that now we have to start discussing and making changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u396	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski speaks well, and I believe I can speak on behalf of many opposition representatives that the opposition should certainly be supported if the government is to move forward with the situation of migratory fish stocks even more vigorously than is currently the case. It is also clear from this debate how these different themes are interlinked. We have quite a huge untapped or, indeed, unconscious potential in fishing tourism and leisure fishing, from the point of view of both public health and the national economy, and there is an increasing interest in fishing and fishing tourism, but there is, in fact, very little knowledge of it. Well, in order to take advantage of that opportunity, we must of course be in a better condition and at a sustainable level. This is again linked to water protection issues, the fight against climate change and so on. There are therefore a number of legislative ways, a number of different strategies, all of which relate to this whole fisheries issue. Last season I asked about the updating of the recreational fisheries development strategy, and I am pleased that this was done. Perhaps it is now time to remind ourselves that this strategy exists again. There would be a number of gripping surfaces in that strategy which have now been highlighted in this debate. Rather, the question now is how to put them into practice. Hopefully next year, in good cooperation across the border between the government and the opposition, we will be able to promote these themes that are important to all of us present.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u397	Mr President! In this debate, Mrs Myllykoski encouraged us to support the government in their good endeavour to reform the Water Act, and that is what we have done with Mrs Sirén. If you have seen the news in the early part of the year, you may have drawn attention to the fact that the two of us here expressly took a firm stand in favour of the reform of the Water Act and encouraged you when the Government's legislative plan states that the water law will be reformed in the autumn of 2022, so that you would take up this earlier, because a number of legal practitioners see that this could lead to significant constitutional problems when fishing permits are introduced, and this could lead to a spiral in which the reform of the law could take a decade in the worst scenario. We do not have time to waste a whole decade on this, especially when we are beginning to have a socially sweet consensus that this is something that we want to promote with a large number of people. One of the main drivers of this debate was that the Ely Centre of Varsinais-Suomen ely calculated that there are up to half a hundred so-called zero-binding plants in Finland, i.e. small-scale drop-in power plants or a little larger plants that do not fulfil any fishing obligations in the current model, and this is, of course, a pity, because we do not have enough sanctioning mechanisms in the current legislation to remedy these shortcomings. Above all, when discussing the future of hydropower, it should be pointed out that the average hydroelectric power plant is quite small, with a negligible energy production. Up to 40% of all our hydropower plants produce only 1 megawatt of energy, and the main reason for their existence is that there is no incentive or obligation to dismantle them, but they have been left where it was necessary to build them at the time of Finland's industrialisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u398	Finally, Mrs Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u399	Mr President! However, I was not a man of my word, and I apologise for that, but the request for the floor was made that this is what Mr Heikkinen said before. But let us not underestimate the regional importance of these small hydropower companies either. I do not want to be the user of the word sword who says that this is pointless and this is not, but I would like to go out in a comprehensive way and make a decision on how we can dismantle this, because at some point it is completely pointless, it can be obtained by the sun or electricity just as locally. However, when it comes to the business activities of existing companies and their legitimacy, I am not now so much a socialist as to shut down the shop at some point, but we must have that basic debate and then we must have the opportunity in society to carry these things out. But, yes, we must press ahead with this legislation. I couldn't agree more. When I was in Parliament in the first period of 2011 and the committee adviser in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, I asked how we were getting this thing moving forward and I prepared the bill, the committee adviser said that you are now on a big issue, it is a very complicated and complex matter, and then perhaps my courage was not enough to take forward what I want to promote now, while there is another possibility that I am a representative of the Government Party, and in that sense I am very pleased that we agree.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u400	Mr President! I too am very pleased about this debate and that we agree. It is true that, when next year's budget is on the table and when we know what legislative projects the government has planned for next year, this whole is not something that the government is about to solve. This would require this to be taken up by next year, and of course this budget would have been one possibility to do so. As Mr Heikkinen said, we have tried to keep this issue on the table and to tighten up the government in this legislative work. In fact, just last week, together with Mr Heikkinen and some other representatives of the environmental and fish politicians in the Assembly, we left a written question on what plans the government has to promote the promotion of these active fishing routes, in other words, the fishing roads, which can be different solutions in favour of organic overtaking the Finnish language, as does the representative. Heikkinen said that. My view of these so-called IPPs is that we should be able to assess the benefits of the plant for the whole ecological system, for water bodies and then for fish, making it more difficult for fish to rise. After all, we have a large number of plants in Finland that produce quite marginal energy, but nevertheless the disadvantage is significant, and these should be able to be dismantled.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u401	Mr President! In this regard, Mrs Myllykoski said that she does not want to go as a judge or a doctor to analyze those dams or power stations that are unnecessary. I boldly encourage such thinking, because it is quite obvious that at some point the lifetime of these power plants will end up, and in such a situation we must have the opportunity, as legislators, to oblige those who have been collecting for years economic benefits from these power stations, either to dismantle them or to take care of the landscaping of their territory by some other means. There can be no such alternative that once someone has been built, it will remain in nature as such. After all, we do not think of mines in such a way that, if there is a mining industry, it as such is left entirely unattractive, but we must always have the starting point that this region will also be treated after, if economic benefits are sought. I would also urge Mrs Myllykoski to take a look at, for example, the Siikajoki in Northern Ostrobothnia, which has, among other things, the Ruukki power plant, which produces enough energy to heat up one microwave or coffee pot in about an hour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u402	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u403	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-15-ps-166.u404	Presentation of Section 21 on Parliament
