ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u1	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 2.5 hours is reserved for the referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. After the presentation by Minister of Finance Matti Vanhanen, the debate will take place in two 45-minute sections. The reply list will be cleared after the first section.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u2	Mr President! I regret that, at the beginning of autumn, there is a relatively boring additional budget proposal, but if you are looking for a more significant observation, it is that, at least in the short term, the impact of the epidemic on our economic situation was not quite as negative as was feared, and that is why the total of this additional budget is more than EUR 1 billion better than previously thought. During the spring, tax-related payment arrangements were facilitated as part of measures aimed at mitigating the impact of the corona virus situation on businesses and economic activity. Due to the change in the estimate of the use of payment arrangements and the increase in accrual data, the estimate of tax revenue has been increased by more than EUR 1 billion. The most significant increase of EUR 992 million relates to VAT revenue. Due to payment arrangements, the State compensation to municipalities for the loss of tax revenue due to tax base changes was increased by EUR 547 million in the second amending budget of 20. According to the latest estimate, changes in tax payment arrangements would reduce municipal tax revenue by a total of EUR 118 million in 20 years. As a result, it is proposed to deduct EUR 429 million from tax losses due to changes in tax bases for municipalities. On the expenditure side, an amount of EUR 60 million is proposed to finance the temporary epidemic payment. Compensation would support the most economically vulnerable people and families in society in a situation where the limitation measures resulting from the covid-19 epidemic have resulted in extra costs. The aid would cover persons who have received basic income support during the restricted activities if they are still beneficiaries of basic income support during the payment period of the grant in autumn 2020. The amount of tax-free aid would be EUR 75 per person per month. An additional EUR 30 million is proposed to compensate for the costs of agriculture, horticulture and rural businesses. On the other hand, the estimate of expenditure on company cost support will be reduced by EUR 30 million. An increase of EUR 104 million is proposed in support of renewable energy production. The increase in the budget estimate has been affected in particular by the fall in electricity prices and the increase in wind power production. With an increase of EUR 1021 million in actual revenue and a reduction of EUR 234 million in appropriations, the fifth draft amending budget for 20 will reduce the need for net borrowing by EUR 1.3 billion and the net borrowing of the central government will now be estimated at around EUR 17.6 billion in 20. The amount of central government debt at the end of 20 is estimated to be around EUR 124 billion, which is about 54 per cent of our GDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u3	I did, and we're going to this first debatation. I would now ask those Members who wish to use the reply in the debate to stand up and press the response button. We shall begin this debate by giving the floor to all the groups, the two-minute speeches, and this part will be opened by Mr Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u4	Mr President! The Minister of Finance gave a good presentation of these changes, which are included in the fifth draft amending budget. It is important that during the year the situation is monitored, which is the correct development of tax revenue, and that changes are made accordingly. It is now possible to reduce the estimate of this year's borrowing in a very positive way by another billion, and hopefully there will be further gleams of joy in this regard during the autumn. So this is no reaction to these debt panic talks, such as those from that part of Pori at the turn of last week. It is important that central government finances are kept under control, addressed by the corona virus, its health effects, prevented disadvantages, and the development of the economy and employment is also sought as quickly as possible to achieve a stable growth path. It is also important in that draft amending budget that those in the poorest position receive a supplement to income support through temporary epidemic payments. It is important to be a question of social justice in this way, so that those who are the victims of such a crisis in the most distressed situation find relief in their financial position through such support. In this context, it is important to continue these efforts, both in terms of employment and, in particular, the maintenance of services, when it is possible to provide for a future budget debate. Financial support for municipalities needs follow-up from the end of autumn as well as next year, and it is also important to manage the operating conditions of the organisations when the income of cash-in-deposit funds is
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u5	Mr President! In this situation, you, the left-wing government, will bring a technical amending budget to Parliament, in a situation where Finns are concerned about their own jobs. Many families worry about having parents work for Christmas. The situation, Mr President, is serious and, from an economic point of view, almost irresponsible. You are not prepared to correct your government programme in a situation that has changed dramatically, even though its income has already changed and collapsed, Minister for Finance. But you're holding on to it, even though you don't have the money. Left-wing politics will be strongly reflected in Finnish purses in the coming years. If high taxes and tax increases were the solution to the problems of this country, then we would not, Minister of Finance, have problems in this country. Debt money is not the answer to our structural problems. From the point of view of the disease, the corona has been handled quite well — thanks to you and all Finns — but two things remain lame. Just there I received a message from a mother about how she had been away from work for a week while waiting for her child to get a corona test. By the way, it is expensive for this family and Finnish society. Why don't you use the entire testing capacity? Test, track, handle strategy is now in many places a line, test, wait and wait tragedy. The situation at airports has also fallen, and, on the other hand, the safe bubble of travelling to Lapland is also waiting for solutions. But, ladies and gentlemen, 30,000 jobs are no longer enough, and certainly not just a view or a mirage of them. You must now courageously take up your task and look at decisions and genuine measures in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u6	Madam President! This amending budget reveals some of the government's major interest rate management errors. The financial impact of Korona has been neglected by Finnish taxpayers, municipalities and businesses. For example, the reduced use of corporate tax relief or cost support, for example, does not indicate the need to be lower than anticipated. It indicates that the forms of aid and their conditions have been incorrect in relation to the needs of companies. However, the most important and irresponsible aspect of this amending budget is what is not there. This amending budget lacks facilitating the functioning of local government finances. On the contrary, local government finances are being tightened further. Municipalities are currently preparing their budgets for next year in an unprecedented situation. When it has been difficult for municipalities to adjust their economies without scratching their basic services, it is certainly not possible in panic. Regarding the bank, 145 municipalities applied for an increase in the discretionary state contribution of EUR 340 million. There's $60 million in the division. Madam President! In this situation, it is incomprehensible that the government did not return to the municipalities the cuts in the state participation resulting from the Kiky agreement immediately after the conclusion of the agreement at the beginning of September. Even the compensation for tax base changes, 429 million, is a waste of time rocking a municipal boat at a time when the situation will be evenable next year. The government now eats its internal trust capital with two hands. Finnish communities and citizens are first beaten to pieces and then started to revive Southern Europe with billions of dollars. Municipalities, taxpayers and businesses are being abandoned here in the country of origin. When are you going to put an end to this irresponsible economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u7	Madam President! The best economic policy this autumn is all the fight against the corona and the prevention and management of the second wave. A sense of security and confidence building are the keys to the business sector's courage to invest and people's courage to consume. It could be said that the three major themes of this autumn are health, the economy and employment — three important Ts. It is now important that this Chamber is able to distinguish between essential non-essential issues, and these big issues also need to be reflected next week in the budgetary debate of the country's government. Finland now needs everyday security, work and equality. In this situation, we need a good recovery policy that is appropriate for the economic cycle, at the same time the ability to return to fiscal discipline and the real will to take employment decisions, decisions that improve the resilience and shock capacity of this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u10	Mr President! In addition to immediate action, there must be courage to look further. This is also linked to the structure of the Finnish economy. We know that a lot of investment goods are exported from Finland, whose demand is later hit by such recessions. So this global economic crisis will hit us later, and that is why it is important to ensure that the biggest problem, namely the lack of demand, is resolved, and that is what the recovery policy is aiming at. Of course, it must be done in a way that is researched, effectively sustains jobs and creates more jobs and, at the same time, enables businesses to take action. Already in the spring, the Group of Greens and Greens stated that the fight against climate change is one of the most effective ways of creating more jobs, more export opportunities for Finnish companies – this is an area in which we are already strong – and thus strengthens economic growth and employment. At the same time, we must of course ensure that society is kept open as far as possible — the event industry is right now reminding us outside. If society is to be closed down, it will inevitably also have an impact on demand. As Mr Kurvinen well said, another effective employment measure, in addition to maintaining demand, is that the epidemic can now be prevented. We know that Finland is not an island, that action is needed both at home and internationally to stop this pandemic. Mr President! In this package, however, perhaps the most important thing is to tackle the plight of the poorest Finns. In the spring, when schools, day-care centres, bus lines, food queues, many other services that support the everyday lives of the poorest were closed, so many were left quite alone with their need. It is known that the opening hours of Kela's offices and social services offices are:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u11	Mr President! People and countries are in a very different position to overcome the crisis. Fortunately, we have a strong welfare state in Finland and it softens the blow. However, we too have a very different resilience to the crisis, some of us living from hand to mouth, and we on the left have stressed that the crisis must not be brought down to ordinary people. [True : Name! ] It has been very important to have rapid support for small entrepreneurs, lay-offs and job security, as well as support for basic municipal services, such as health centres, schools, elderly and disabled people. This amending budget is smaller than the previous one, but we are very pleased that the temporary increase in income support is now also supporting the most vulnerable beyond this crisis. For example, the closing of bread lines and the ending of day - care centres and school meals caused a very difficult situation for many. Of course, all this support means government debt. In the long term, however, it makes sense for everyone to take the biggest blow from a country that even receives a loan at a negative interest rate. It is good to note that even in this situation, Finland is less indebted than average. All the countries are in trouble now. Finland will endure, but it is essential that we step out of this crisis. By investing in education, well-being and green reconstruction, we can emerge stronger from this, and here we must thank the government, which is making a very responsible and far-sighted economic policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u12	Irade the Talman! In this debate, it is easy to forget the fact that, by any measure, this crisis has been handled well in Finland both from the point of view of the disease and from the economic point of view. The impact on Finland's economy now seems to be better off than the control countries. Of course, the final certificate will not be issued until a few years later. During this year we have been reminded of the importance of the state's ability to act quickly and to allocate funds where they are needed. This fifth amending budget is an example of such rapid action to allocate funds to necessary and urgent measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u13	Madam Speaker! The criticisms of the Christian Democrats about this amending budget, too, are not in the case of individual increases in appropriations which, for example, have absolutely necessary and good things in themselves, such as operating aid for agricultural enterprises and, in particular, this interest subsidy for the underprivileged, which hopefully goes as far as possible to families with children. Instead, the general problem with both this amending budget and the government's economic policy is that it lacks the long-term plans for how we balance our state finances and public finances above our heads and how we can ensure that the employment of these hundreds of thousands of workers who are currently lacking is restored, that these negotiations, which are currently under way and which also depend on thousands of people, do not turn into redundancies, and how, on the other hand, we are able to create new jobs, because the decline in our dependency ratio, the age structure, the diminishing age groups and the need for care have disappeared. These are the issues for which major structural reforms are needed. Unfortunately, this government proposal still has the same problems as before, and we have major problems in terms of the private economy, the business economy and then the local economy. Local government finances are likely to come to the worst year ever: around 4 billion additional debts are expected on the municipal side. In practice, this means that municipal taxes will be tightened and reflected in the private economy. Increases in energy taxes are already a problem in the private economy. The government is also increasing social security contributions. And this way, it too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u14	Then let us move on to the one-minute speeches, which will be initiated by Mrs Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u15	Thank you, Madam President. As a general observation, instead of a populist policy of division, the government should focus on measures that increase productive work in this situation. Only in this way can revenue from public finances be increased and expenditure cut and thus maintain society's ability to take care of the weakest. This supplement for income support is misleadingly named and justified, since it does not specifically target people or families who have been faced with additional costs from the epidemic. Of course, the status of income support customers is not a great deal, but it is difficult to see how precisely the interest rate situation would have made it worse in a material way. Rather, this is a populist publicity stunt to cover up the inability to grow a joint cake.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u16	Mr President! We're getting some bad news every day. Yesterday, the technology industry announced that around 20,000 jobs would be disappearing near it by the end of this year, and we already have nearly 400,000 unemployed job seekers in our country. The government is now meeting in a budget debate. This amending budget is technical, but it is coming next year's budget proposal and important decisions are expected. Prime Minister Marin today confirmed that 30,000 is the government's goal of creating jobs through these decisions that the budget debate is about to take. I would like to ask you, Mr Finance Minister: do you think that is sufficient? In our view, the target of 30,000 in these scales and figures in which we are now, and in the worry and yt-wave that is currently facing Finland, is severely undersized and even indifferent to those who are unemployed. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u17	Mr President! The Minister of Finance, Mr Vanhanen, said earlier that the fight against the interest rate is, in fact, one of the most important issues for economic policy as well. That is the most important economic policy, and now we have already known that Finland has survived the best of Europe's health to date, and now this amending budget tells us the fact that Finland's damage, at least at first, has been the lowest in Europe, and that is why debt is shrinking by another billion, with revenue estimates rising by a few billion. We now need stability — and we must remain vigilant — so that the actors can act and society can spin. It is therefore surprising that Elina Lepomäki, Vice-President of the Coalition Party, called for the parliament to be dissolved at the party meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u18	Mr President! Minister Vanhanen said that this additional budget proposal is not particularly glamorous politically, but it does reflect the good policy the government has taken in relation to the interest rate in the world of health and the economy. In other words, it is clear from this that companies have not needed those tax arrangements as much as they would have been available. So the economy has been better, at least so far, than expected, and then the income of the state and municipalities as tax recipients is also higher than expected. And I must say that, overall, the situation is under control. I believe that the government will make good decisions in the budget debate at the beginning of next week, particularly with regard to employment. What is very important here is that there should be a balance between agricultural and rural enterprises,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u19	Madam Speaker! The government can at least praise itself. It's made clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u22	Madam President! It is quite clear that we need to support and help Finns, all in Finland beyond the corona crisis and help companies. And you know how to distribute money in the government, but one thing is missing: employment measures were postponed, Mr Finance Minister, before the interest rate. They've been postponed since the corona. You may have been sitting on the good work done by the previous government, but the bill is now coming to be paid. It is paid by the unemployed — 400,000 unemployed, the Yt-wave, entrepreneurs are going bankrupt. At the same time, you are sending a bill to future generations, our children, to crush the entire Finnish welfare society. My question is: what is the reason why we have postponed these absolutely necessary employment measures? Is it good for you, Mr Vanhanen, that there are only 30,000 jobs? As Mr Grahn-Laasonen said, there are 20,000 jobs in the technology industry, a major wave of bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u23	Madam President! After all, this is the basic Finnish talk of a complete pathology. True Finns will not accept support for the poorest if a cent of it is poured out on immigrants. If the Finns suffer, let them suffer, obviously there is a basic Finnish policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u26	Madam President! Although the economy is in a very challenging situation now and in the future, the point that has been made here is precisely where this amending budget has begun to show that, at this stage of the economy, too, we have been able to cope with a little less than we feared, and that is where the debt-taking requirement of more than one billion — another billion — is being reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u29	Madam President! In March 2019, when the programme of this government was being turned on, there were 191,000 unemployed people in Finland and the government set an ambitious target of 30,000 new jobs. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude] Now, according to statistics at the end of July, as a result of the interest rate, there are 387000 people without work in Finland. What is the government's answer? Thirty grand is enough. According to the latest data, 20,000 jobs are leaving the technology industry. What do you say? 30,000 jobs are enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u30	Mr President! I am surprised that the representatives of the government parties can afford to praise even the economic situation. Let us now talk a little more about the local government economy, about these structural problems. It is known that the municipal economy is a historical...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u35	Madam President! According to the Government Programme, the employment rate would be 75% at the end of the parliamentary term and the public finances would be in balance. Mr Vanhanen, I ask you whether the government programme in this respect is still in force. Apparently, there is a government programme in force to create 30000 new job-creating decisions in this budget line, and the decision-making process would be verified by the Ministry of Finance's calculations. Prime Minister Marin has spoken of the fact that in this situation there is a ‘vision ’ of 30,000 new workers. Representative Heinonen stated that the word ‘synonymous’is clearly ‘clothing’. Congressman Kurvinen, is it enough for the city center to have a view of 30,000 people in the budget line?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u36	Mr President! Employment is not enough; it is self-evident. The measures we can take are not enough in the long term; they must be carried out on an ongoing basis. That's why tricking with these numbers is actually kind of funny. What is essential is how many jobs we will be able to maintain during this crisis, and on top of that we need those measures that can increase jobs in other sectors. The Minister said that the proposal is boring, and I think it is actually a good thing, because when there is drama and speed and dangerous situations in politics, things are usually bad, but when things are done boringly and firmly, then things are in hand. In my opinion, this additional budget shows that things are under control. It addresses acute issues and the budget debate makes the decisions that will carry us from now on. I would like to emphasise the budgetary argument that once the interest rate has left us with difficult things, it is not just an economic and employment issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u37	Madam President! Who are the ones who have suffered the most from the corona? Is it possibly a middle-income family, a single parent family that is not covered by income support? I wish, the government, that you could work this out too. Mr President! Tehy's shop steward announced that the corona load is narrowing down the limits of endurance. The healthcare sector is under a lot of pressure. They are burdened there by the amount of work, staff shortages, skills shortages and overtime. True Finns have repeatedly raised the issue of coronalism to nursing workers, an addition to what is called dangerous work. Minister, what will you say? Madam President! Espoo came up here, and I can tell you that people move to Espoo but tax revenues do not increase. The layoffs, redundancies make it more difficult, tax revenues are falling, and at the same time we are giving Europe a stimulus. Where is this Finland going? Do you, good government, reject the people of your own country?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u38	Madam President! I have to say to that assembly that in a short time you have gone a long way, from hope to hopelessness. At least you've had hope in the past, now there's nothing but misery, lack of prospects, but that Parliament should still be stabbed... [Interjection] But, Mr President, with regard to that cost support, indeed, that not all aid has been used, perhaps half of it has been used, and it is an excellent thing that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Forestry have also put this extension of this money into rural business. An excellent thing is also this corona support for deprived families.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u39	Mr President! It is important that, in difficult times, we support everyone, everyone, especially the most vulnerable. To this end, the government proposes the necessary means, a temporary epidemic allowance for income support. If the target were desired, as the Finns say, only for families with children, this means, the child allowance, that they propose, would also target more wealthy families. A better way could be to raise the child's contribution to unemployment benefit or to raise the child's basic component of income support. Of course, there is a small challenge in this proposal for epidemic compensation, which relates to the need to have income support now even in the autumn, and such incentives should be avoided. The economic situation in the municipalities is tense, as has been said here, and the flexibility of the economy, which even more companies have been required of the municipalities, is beginning to get to grips with it. We are waiting for the new amending budget for autumn, and hopefully it will be able to take this scale into account what is needed in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u40	Mr President! There is perhaps a slight misunderstanding here about this cyclical policy and long-term structural measures. However, they belong together, because the prerequisite for increasing the deficit now is that we also have long-term sustainable public finances, and that is not what we have. We have an explosive debt if you're looking at the Treasury forecasts. Mr Vanhanen, in an earlier debate in the Chamber, you expressed the view that the debt ratio should be stabilised at 75%. That is a good objective — even more ambitious ones could be thought of — and that requires a rather drastic adjustment phase. In what respect, Minister, do you and your government believe that this adaptation should include: (a) employment-enhancing reforms; (b) expenditure savings; and (c) tax increases?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u41	Mr President! The financial allocation for the financing of the temporary epidemic allowance for the most vulnerable people is indeed necessary. There is something else that needs to be done to support the most vulnerable citizens. For example, organisations did important work in the spring, as they always do, to help vulnerable people. Without organisations, the care and care debt that arose in the spring would now be even higher. Without organisations, the consequences of loneliness and isolation would now be even worse. The well-being activities of organisations save society’s resources proactively and strengthen the capacity of the most vulnerable and at risk of exclusion. President! I would like to thank the government for this compensation for the epidemic of income support customers, and I believe that a good government will find a sustainable solution in the budget debate, including the operating conditions of organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u42	Mr President! I'd be more specific about this debt money. The explanatory memorandum of the draft law on the interest allowance of EUR 75for the recipients of income support states: ‘The bill has not been used to explain the effects and targeting of this fixed-term aid.’ It is a bit frightening that extending compulsory education is also part of the fact that everything is free for everyone, even though there are a lot of families who could take care of their children’s studies. I don't think we have an endless cash register here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u47	Mr President! There is representative Lindtman here and perhaps many others have asked what the coalition wants, whether we want to overthrow the government and break up the parliament. Well, of course, we do not want these measures as a matter of priority, but we want the government to act. We want Finns to have jobs and that our economy does not go bankrupt. That is what we want, Mr President. Furthermore, Mr Vanhanen, you have just said that economic development has not been as negative as you had thought and that tax revenue has been better than what had been thought. Well, now that we look at the realities, the technology industry, for example, still had orders in the order books of the previous year last spring, but now the situation has deteriorated considerably because the economic situation in our key export countries has deteriorated as well, and also because our export people are unable to travel. I would like to ask you, Mr Vanhanen: what are we going to do about these travel restrictions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u48	And in this section I will give two more minutes to speak, and then Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u49	Madam President! An increase of approximately EUR 100 million is proposed in support of renewable energy production. As wind power increases, support for wind power increases. Compared to the 2020 budget, an increase of up to 45% is now coming. But how is this fuel tax business? Just a normal person suffers from that increase in fuel taxation. And what about all this heating stuff? I think 130,000 homes are warmed up with oil, and a lot of these are for low-income pensioners. 30% are between 60 and 69 years old, up to 40% are over 70 years old. When the average amount of pension is around 1680 for 2018
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u50	And then, last minute's speech in this section.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u51	Mr President! I am sure that in the next section we will return to the debate on the issue of the dissolution of the Parliament, which, as a result of the Vice-President of the Coalition Party, has been proposed as an objective — that is to say, the dissolution of the Parliament in the midst of a corona crisis in a situation where the government is in a state of health. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u52	Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u53	Mr President! In the case of wind power, new feed-in tariffs have not been granted for three years, i.e. new power plants will be created without this support. The huge investment in wind power has resulted in more cheap electricity generation, which has reduced all the market prices for electricity, from which all Finns have benefited, but it is then reflected in the fact that, with these old contracts, the price of electricity will increase. The Parliament decided for the spring period to adopt the fourth amending budget with very large additional appropriations for municipal health care districts. Now, no new estimates have been made for this additional budget, and this will by no means solve next year. The representative, Mrs Ranne, criticised the fact that this was not taken into account. We do not have the practice — when the municipalities have freedom of contract and they agree on wage settlements — that the State will somehow automatically pay for its effects. There is no such policy. It has been asked whether 30 000 jobs will be sufficient for a decision. That's not good enough. We have the old decisions that left out of the 60,000 in the Government Programme, of which 30,000 will be made in the first instance, will be continued, and in June the government decided that this changed situation will make it necessary to raise this target of 60,000, and these decisions will accumulate in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u56	Now we move on to the second part of the debate, the next 45 minutes, and I would ask you to make a discreet exchange of whom it is to be done, by groups. We'll wait a little while. — Like this. And now I would ask those representatives who wish to use the reply in the debate to stand up and press the V button. — And the debatin begins by Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u57	Madam President! In the city centre it has been celebrated in some way that entrepreneurs did not need all that cost support. Have you, ladies and gentlemen of the centre, visited outside the parliament, on the stairs, to see what is happening there? There are musicians, there are sports clubs, there are athletes, there is the whole field of events. It's just noise coming from the speakers. They do not currently have a job or a right to work. Don't, ladies and gentlemen of the centre, celebrate the fact that this is a good time for entrepreneurs. They're in an extremely bad situation. Mr President! The tourism industry is also in a very difficult place. Thousands, thousands of unemployed people are coming if you are unable to make decisions about safe travel, from the tourist bubble to Lapland. Hotel and restaurant business — in a very difficult place. There will be thousands and thousands of unemployed if you do not, ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u58	I would remind you that, as a rule, one-minute speeches are used in this section.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u59	Madam Speaker! Of this interest rate subsidy, it was said that very few Finnish unemployed people are receiving interest rate support from the government. In fact, none of those who have lost their jobs because of the interest rate are now receiving this direct interest subsidy. This direct, tax-free interest rate subsidy of EUR 75 per month is, on the other hand, being received by nearly 40,000 foreign nationals. Support should have been given to Finnish citizens only or only to families with children. Why was that aid not granted only to families with children if it was based on the costs of families with children? What the government should learn, however, is that, of course, the best way to help the unemployed and unemployment is to help people to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u60	Mr President! First of all, we must correct Mr Tavio's argument. Hardly 40% of those receiving income support are foreign citizens. [Right : 40000! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u61	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Heinos that no one in this Chamber celebrates the fact that less cost support has been applied for than is foreseen, and certainly there is no reason to do so. Instead, we could be happy here together, including the opposition, that when, in a difficult situation, the government had to plan various tools to support companies on a fast-track basis, so according to a survey by Finnish Entrepreneurs, the majority of entrepreneurs feel that these instruments have been very effective instruments. But you have to remember: there are intermissioners there too, and not all companies have received, even if there was a need, so we have no reason to rejoice here. Instead, you can say that not this situation, which we now have at the time of the coronavirus, this kind of economic crisis, with corporate subsidies to solve, but by the fact that we make the economic bikes run in Finland, and here the government is working all the time, also to ensure that we get the tourism pipeline to Lapland to be born.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u62	Madam President! It is good that we are now taking into account a wide range of sectors and that many representatives have visited, for example, the expectations and plight of the event sector at the moment, because quite often only areas that have been traditionally learned to think of as the cornerstone of the Finnish economy are being discussed in this Chamber, but it is a very good reminder that we have a lot of employment-intensive service sectors and we also have areas that are doing well during the corona and that are able to provide solutions to this situation as well. We have companies in really different situations, and that is why we need solutions for all of them. It is good that the health situation has also been considered good, because the risk is that if the health situation deteriorated, then our economic situation in several sectors would be considerably worse,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u63	Mr President! From the outset, the Left Alliance has stressed that the crisis must not be brought down to ordinary people. The government has acted to safeguard people's well-being and livelihood and to support businesses in such a way that jobs would not be lost. Employment measures and structural reforms promoted by the Coalition Party would mean cuts in social security, but poverty will not create any real new jobs. There is now a need for stimulus to improve demand and employment. However, I would like the government to consider and take into account the crisis in the field of events that we have seen today in front of the Parliament House. As far as the strict criteria for general cost support in the sector are concerned, I myself have already raised the issue of taking account of and supporting the special nature of the event to the government in August. My own friends, such as roadies or sound and lightmen, are now unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u64	Mr President! This was the last time we talked about competitiveness and the ability of industry to cope, and so on. I do agree with what Mr Salmon said in that regard that the wheels of the economy must be kept rolling and the money moving, because otherwise there will be no tax revenue and employment will not be improved. But somehow I have some doubts as to how employment and corporate survival will improve if we continue to increase consumption taxes. Over the last ten years, we have raised fuel tax by more than 60%, the electricity tax, the component, by 150 per cent, electricity transfers have been increasing and now the price of district heat has risen when there is a certain wave in the wood market and in the peat market. How will these increases help companies, because the company is not interested in taxation if it is unable to generate profits? In my opinion, a single package of competitiveness and industry, which should be brought here, should indeed include a neutral assessment of how these consumption taxes will then contribute to employment and to Finland's competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u65	Mr President! Mr Vanhanen, I asked you during Question Time on Thursday about the situation in the municipalities and, in particular, about these fines, which come from the fact that unemployment is prolonged. You told me during Question Time that there would be no increases in earnings tax, but there was a feeling that you ignored this municipal side and municipal taxation. As has been said here today, the municipalities are in real trouble. I would expect you, good government and good Minister of Local Government, to waive these fines at least for the time being, when it is completely unreasonable for municipalities to pay constantly increasing fines. In my home town, Hyvinkää, they have now risen by 30 per cent from one year ago, which means that employment measures are very much dependent here too. I would now ask you, if you have had time to study it, when on Thursday you felt that you did not quite understand my question or have thought about it — I am sure you have been wondering, in a few days’ time, whether you can answer whether these fines will now be eased in the package?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u66	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! This amending budget now makes a balanced proposal, reducing the need for debt-taking. At the same time, there are supported forms of support for the most vulnerable people and families, while at the same time the proportion of municipalities is decreasing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u67	Madam President! Here Mr Vanhanen, the Minister for Finance, said that this draft amending budget is boring. I hope that this outcome of next week's budget debate will not be boring, but that it will now be very specific decisions to improve employment, which has been called for in this Chamber a month after the second, and in particular decisions that will strengthen the long-term conditions for businesses. For example, this issue of local agreement must be involved. [Department:Actually, yes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u68	Madam President! Mr Eestilä listed a few consumer tax increases a little earlier, and I feel that the coalition has been in the government itself when these increases have been made. But I think the government has acted in a very responsible way. It has taken care of health and thus prevented the cost of health care from rising. At the same time, the economy has also been taken care of, efforts have been made to prevent bankruptcies and jobs have been taken care of. So this has been a very responsible activity. Of course, the opposition always tries to show that the government has done wrong,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u69	Madam President! Government spending increases, spending increases, spending increases, spending increases, but there is little prospect of anything on the revenue side, nothing much. Now the debt buys votes for the left, $60 million. It's costing me a normal person. Even though Congressman Saramo claims otherwise, it is actually costing an ordinary person, a working person. You would have given this $60 million as a hand extension to nurses who have even risked their own health for this job.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u70	Madam President! The predictability of the economy and strict compliance with the rules are crucial to economic governance. Inside the government, it has been reported that the Kaipola plant has been profitable, and today the Prime Minister specified where he has received his information. He said it was from the employee shop and directly from the factory. The stock exchange rules are very clear. Insider information must not be used, and if inside information has been made available, it should not be spread forward, i.e. unauthorised information should not be used. There are now different options: either the inside has been leaked, and then the second option has been followed by the wrong use of the leaked data. This is a very heavy matter for the government if information is used contrary to the rules of the stock exchange. I hope that there will be a small development debate within the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u71	Madam President! Just as Mr Vanhanen said, this amending budget must be seen as a continuation of the series. This is perhaps a bit of a technical issue this time, and it is EUR 1.3 billion plus, but fortunately, there are some important issues on the budget side, of which this EUR 60 million epidemic allowance has, of course, given rise to the greatest debate here. Last week, when we discussed it in the Chamber, the Finns of Peru were asked how it was to be financed. This amending budget now finances it. Period. The issue of corona has also been raised here. I would like to say that Ilta-Sanomat wrote an article yesterday with the title ‘Eight Good News on the situation in Finland’ and seven experts asked whether the Government’s strategy was correct andall replied that it Finland is currently testing the most in Europe in terms of infection findings. There's a single infection in 500 tests.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u72	Madam President! Indeed, Finland is still living in very exceptional times as a result of this epidemic, and there are many risks in the air. Now we are throwing accusations at this sector. It is quite clear that the sector is in difficulty because it is such an industry that it suffers most from such an epidemic and its limitations. I trust that the government will look for new ways and solutions to this too. It should be remembered that the event sector also has a very big regional policy significance, because the events are all over Finland. But if there is something in this discussion that is surprising, the fact that no matter how difficult the times may be, the tax populism of the coalition continues. You are offering tax cuts of EUR 1 billion at a time when the tax base is already falling apart as a result of this economic crisis. I consider this to be a very special activity. This is the real price of the welfare society, which you are talking about for EUR 1 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u73	Mr President! It is great that there is also concern on the part of the government about the field of events. The Marin government has already failed this area three times. First of all, the restrictions had to last until the ICUs were overloaded. In practice, there have been no corona patients at efficacy for months, yet events are restricted. This is threatening to become a permanent practice if the vaccine is not effective in absolute terms. In the autumn, Marin promised not to impose new national restrictions but to seek regional and individual action. Despite this, restrictions on events were tightened at the end of August, although THL said that there was no acceleration in Finland. Financial support has also been promised for events, but its conditions were made so that cultural events and small suppliers of events do not receive it. Mr President, how will the government react to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u74	Mr President! Interesting conversation. This is going to put a lot of pressure on next week's budget debate to wait for this real economic situation in our country and to be able to cope with people's everyday lives to move in the direction that there is faith in the future. The representative, Lindén, said in that very clever way, when the Finns of Peru made the money, where the aid is financed, that now it comes in the amending budget, money comes in. It comes from the wall, on loan, in debt, so this is not a very constructive way. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u75	Madam President! Indeed, this proposal is a clear continuum for previous budget proposals and a fine place for example for the poorest people, with the much-speaked support here, and this equalisation of agricultural enterprises, so that all businesses in the various sectors are treated as equally as possible. After all, in this big picture we are facing a fairly rapid crisis: the interest rate and the economic effects it has brought. In addition, we have slow crises all the time, the biggest of which is climate change and the natural disaster. Whatever way we revive and rise out of this rapid crisis, it must be that we solve these slow ones at the same time. Otherwise, it's going to be running into the wall again and on an untenable basis. This is also a very central aspect of economic policy, and it must, of course, also be reflected in the budget debate there. This is also for economists [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u76	Madam President! The temporary corona epidemic allowance has already spoken in this Chamber last week and continues to do so. So we are talking about support for the most vulnerable people. You know, there's a lot of questions around here that say, "Where's the money?" That same question is already asked in many families — monthly, weekly, daily. It's kind of hard to live when you don't know where the money is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u77	Madam President! The amending budget will have the opportunity for the government to react and to exert a rapid influence on the situation we are in and in the near future. Yes, firm and effective decisions are needed to give it direction and to create faith in the future — also to give hope, to turn the wheels of the economy around. During the spring and summer, a lot of work has been done in Finnish homes, distance work and others. People have needed help for both care and safety, and many Finns have been able to arrange renovations, such as energy renovations. In fact, I ask the government what you are going to do when, at least in this amending budget, the change of direction was not yet visible to that side. For this year, the government narrowed down and reduced the household allowance. For the assembly, all work is valuable whether it is done by itself, by an entrepreneur or by an employee, in another’s home or in one’s own home, or whether it is cared for, safe, cleaned up or renovated. The National Coalition Party has already presented:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u78	Mr President! It is very sad when the government parties here praise the good financial management in a situation where there is a debt of 17.6 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u81	Madam President! Korona has felt in many ways in poor families. The period of exception has been seen, among other things, in the increased food expenses of families. During the years of teaching, I saw that school meals were the most important meal of the day for many children of poor families. The previous debate on this subject raised a very good question as to why this corona subsidy was not targeted at children's allowances. The answer is simply that this is universal support, and it was precisely this corona support that was intended to target disadvantaged families.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u82	Madam President! As a left-winger, it is very important to me that this government is for the low-income. It is concrete in this amending budget, which includes, among other things, the temporary payment for epidemics. An increase of EUR 75 per person in income support is significant and helps ordinary people in a wide range of life situations. In this speech, however, I would like to raise my concern about the further increase in the poverty of families with children. The problem was significant even before the corona, and now, due to the interest rate, some 55,000 new families are experiencing income problems and direct poverty. Fortunately, this government has committed itself to reforming social security in the long term, but we also need urgent solutions to alleviate this human need for families. I would like to ask: would it be possible to consider the introduction of additional days of child supplements raised by child organisations, which would enable us to make an urgent contribution?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u83	Mr President! Without what's happening, nothing's gonna happen. The event sector is sending us a strong message from outside the Parliament House: ‘Provide safe organisation of events. Do not keep changing the instructions, but trust us.” We went to the meeting to listen and heard this message. Did the government hear you? The event industry employs up to 20,000 people. The technology industry anticipates the loss of 10,000 jobs. Helsinki Airport and its surroundings in Vantaa employ more than 15,000 people alone. These jobs too are now at risk. Since it seems that bad news is still coming along the autumn, the government must do everything in its power to ensure that jobs are kept to a minimum and, on the other hand, to create the conditions for job creation. That is why we are calling for these employment measures. The scale must be readjusted and its place is in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u84	Madam President! Major cuts and tax increases are ahead. Municipalities are increasingly in need of state aid. Is it coming to them or not? On the contrary, more tasks are coming to the municipalities. We should forget about the employment targets. On the other hand, unemployment rates are rising and bankruptcy rates are increasing. What's the government doing? Either nothing or just regret the situation. Yet you still hold your teeth to the government programme, that is, the programme that was originally made on a base where the expenditure side has been handled with a laudably, but the income side with a grade of ‘bad’. Thousands of small entrepreneurs, such as travel agencies, went bankrupt or received no support at all. Post-transactions will no longer help bankrupt companies. The government just slept with them when we needed to act immediately. Madam President! I would also like to ask which amending budget takes account of travel agency entrepreneurs. They have had to quit their business much earlier than restaurants, for example. The situation in the offices is still intolerable. My question is this: has the government taken into account the travel agency entrepreneurs, and will they receive any assistance in the next budget? I am also surprised that you did not directly provide additional support for families with children with low incomes. There is money to give to Southern Europe, but not to Finns. That's if something's incredible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u85	At this point, I will give Mr Paatero the floor, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u86	Madam President! Local government finances are indeed in distress, and we all recognise that. Just when I came here with about 20 municipalities, we went over the financial situation. However, it must be borne in mind that, during this government before the interest rate, we have added a billion euros package to the municipalities due to the previous period's index freezes, reduced tasks and so on. Now, in the fourth amending budget, it came to EUR 1.4 billion with these four different elements and also direct state subsidies, for example, for public transport, schools, the Ministry of the Environment and others. Now there is only this technical change in this amending budget, which corrects the fact that the tax revenue from municipalities did not fall by nearly EUR 550 million, but by just over EUR 100 million. This is cost-neutral, because in the next two years this will of course be taken into account in the tax base changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u89	And then back to the debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u90	Madam President! Minister Lintilä is strongly suspected in public that not all ministers understand the problems the companies are facing, and now that they are listening to this debate in the Chamber, it is quite clear that even the representatives of the government parties do not understand it. There has been a huge club of mutual praise, it has been told how well we have done economic policy. And then when you look at that surrounding society, there are hundreds of thousands of unemployed people there, the negotiations are under way. Like the Minister Lintilä too has said, the order books are emptying, the redundancies can no longer be stopped, we will see a lot of bankruptcies. And what's the government doing? Entrepreneurs also agree that the government does not understand entrepreneurs — 80% of entrepreneurs have said so. I have asked you now, Mr Finance Minister: in the economy, there are quite a few things that depend on trust. If the company sees that the government is unable to improve the situation in the Finnish economy, then they will not invest or employ. What kind of decisions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u91	Mr President! It should now be noted that the primary task of the government is to restore faith in reliable Finland in terms of entrepreneurship and employment and well-being. The primary task is to combat the corona. This will bring about the employment, reliability and activity that all Members of Parliament have called for here. There have been two branches in these additional budgets which must be understood: (1) to maintain jobs with these various forms of aid; and (2) to create more jobs through the budget line; and thus entrepreneurship is thought of at this point. These amending budgets have thought of businesses in the past, now think of the poor and, among other things, agriculture. This is a good continuum.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u92	Mr President! This year, both the spring and this autumn period, of course, has been hampered by the interest rate, and almost all the government's proposals have focused on corona and its effects and its rejection. That's a good thing. When I have listened to the opposition, the Finns have opposed everything. They've resisted all those motions. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u93	Madam President! Mr Torniainen was critical of the fact that we have not proposed any reductions from these additional budget appropriations. I have already said here, but I am now saying again and very slowly that the core of our criticism is not in the additional appropriations that the government has put forward. There are always good targets in this country where hundreds of millions or even billions more can be placed. Our criticism is that, at the same time, the government has had no interest in the financing of all this additional expenditure. After all, they are being financed — and we agree with the government on this — by economic growth and employment. So, what has the government done for employment? And now, by the time we have a budget debate, half of this 60,000 should be made. Is it even valid, and is it enough for downtown?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u94	In this debate, I will give one more minute to the following people: Mr Arhinmäki, Mr Tavio and Mr Lindtman. Then Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u95	Madam President! When the question has been asked: What makes it possible to say that the economy has been successful, when you look at Europe as a whole, at the world and at economic figures, the decisions that have been taken together here have been reasonably capable of taking care of the domestic market. It is quite clear that the field of events must be supported, and I hope that there will be proposals for it, but I have not heard any specific proposals from the assembly either — which is very critical of the government here — how to do it. [SanniGrahn-Laasonen Intermission]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u96	Mr President! Very simple, false claims about the Finns have been made here. After all, we have not opposed everything, but in this particular period of interest-bearing spring, to a very large extent, we have taken these decisions together as a Parliament as a whole. That is why I am quite confused about how the representative of the old covenant Torniainen can even play that kind of thing. It's already gross populism, if anyone. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u99	Mr President! I would like to begin with a brief correction. Earlier in the debate, I misquoted Mr. Tavio. He really talked about 40,000, and I heard that he would have said 40 percent. I checked it out, and it really was that Tavio used 40,000 as the number. I also went to Mr Tavio to tell it, but when it has been said in this Chamber, I want it in this Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u102	Minister Vanhanen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u103	Mr President! This additional budget and next year's budget, which will start in a week's time, will be in a dangerous economic situation: a deficit of 17 billion in one year, and the rest of the year will only show what it will be — it will tell us that we are not really living in a normal situation. No sigh of relief can be said, because it seems that the epidemic continues to disturb the economy very seriously, both in our countries and in our countries of export. That's why you have to keep the big things in order. From the point of view of the domestic market, from the point of view of local employment, good management of the epidemic in the next few days, in the coming weeks, during this autumn is the most important economic policy. It must be possible to keep the economy as open as possible, and this also applies to tourism. This week, the government is dealing with the issue of borders — it is therefore a headline for this mobility in general. We must find a way that is clearly communicable, understandable for both Finnish and foreign tourists and commuters, but at the same time it must keep the level of risk sufficiently low so that we do not wish to launch a new wave of epidemics in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u109	This part of the debate is over for now. Then we move on to the list of speakers. — — — — The first speaker, Mr Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u110	Mr President! Responsibility, appropriateness and faith in the future — these are now required of Finland’s economic policy. The foundation of our welfare society is based on work and entrepreneurship. It is important that we stick to responsibility, that is, that we work together for the future generations of the country. It is important that we make an appropriate economic policy so that the right means can respond to the right problems. And it is also particularly important that we increase our faith in the future, that is to say that we are building a foundation for new growth. Madam President! Last spring, we found an understanding to deal with the corona crisis. In front of the new one, there was not all the information available, but we succeeded. We succeeded reasonably well in terms of both the disease situation and the economic situation – the whole of Parliament, Finland as a whole. However, our country is still in the midst of serious times today. There's a need for one-on-oneness. We should make every effort to ensure that Finns and this country manage now and also after the interest period. Control of the disease situation is a priority. For the sake of both human health and the sustainability of our economy, it is precisely the management of the disease situation that is essential. The economic crisis must be avoided so that the citizens of our welfare society will be well in the future — so that we will have a welfare society in the future. We must do everything we can to ensure that work is kept and that new work is increased. The changes are inevitable. Not all of them can be prevented, but a new one must be created. We cannot afford to postpone employment decisions. On the contrary, we must be able to achieve a significant increase in the employment rate for the future. There are many ways, but they are certainly not easy. Mr President! Export prospects have deteriorated rapidly. It is important that the government is taking decisions to strengthen national competitiveness. We need to reduce the electricity tax on industry to the minimum allowed by the European Union, to halve the fairway charge which is important for exports and to continue it and to support various infrastructure projects, to set them all in motion — all of these are what we need and, fortunately, we have already done. Last week's proposal on the taxation of personnel allowances for non-listed companies is at its best national capitalism. We need more measures of this kind, and there is no time to waste. That is the kind of decision that Finns are also waiting for, and that is the kind of decision we need to take.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u111	Mr President! Teaching to fish may seem like a fine metaphor, but first you have to see if there is a fish in the lake. If you don't, you don't want to give a hungry guy a fish, you want bread. We have people who are missing bread from the table because of the corona, and this is where the interest rate on income support comes in. Indeed, no one’s hunger is solved by the fact that many others are found to have suffered from the corona. Certainly no one’s hunger is solved by being told to go to work when there is simply no work in the middle of the corona. Especially in this situation, unfortunately, new people are not dared to be hired, so it is particularly difficult for young people entering the labour market today and for those who have been unemployed for a long time. It's pretty cold to tell them you're going to work. Because you don't go to work. You get a job. This is particularly true for young people who have grown up in the midst of the recession of the 1990s and then grown up in the midst of the economic crisis of 2008, a generation whose future has been increasingly uncertain. When looking at Kela’s statistics, it is young people and older people who are two age groups, where many people have fallen into unemployment, poverty and difficulties because of the interest rate. These are also the age groups where a lot of people live alone, and now that we are talking about this, we have to say that not necessarily by the will of the people. Young women, whose position in the labour market was already uncertain, have been hit particularly hard. And by the way, today, when the Family Federation published its report on the birth rate, it is worth remembering that it is economic uncertainty that is one of the main reasons why more and more people in my generation do not dare even try to have a baby. If, therefore, we look at the longer term and want Finland to raise the birth rate, if we want to give people the opportunity to get to the number of children they want, then the solution really is not to increase economic uncertainty, but to reduce it, and this is where caring for quality social security is at the heart of the matter. What is also great is that, in addition to caring for social security, it is young people who have been targeted at hundreds of millions of aid measures in the middle of the corona. There is talk of education, employment services, mental health services, many other measures that will help in this acute crisis. This must continue to be taken care of, because only by taking care of young people can we ensure that this country has a sustainable future when we look further ahead, and now, unfortunately, the situation is really worrying. Regrettably, there are many in this generation who have now missed the first summer job without the first permanent job,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u112	Mr President! Mrs Suomela spoke highly of young people, and I will continue with the same theme. The interest crisis has certainly had a particularly important impact on young people’s chances of finding employment and access to the first job. Indeed, many missed the expected summer job last summer. The layoffs and precarious situation make it difficult to hire young people. In June, there were over 107,000 unemployed job seekers under 30 years of age, while one year ago there were just over 63,000. The number of unemployed young people is also higher than one year ago. Young people do not receive enough cross-cutting services to provide support not only for employment but also for mental health, life management and housing problems. President! It is therefore necessary to take measures to promote the employment of young people. The Centre considers that the budget debate must agree on a package to strengthen the well-being and future faith of young people. It's the kids' turn. We need a young people's future package. One way to do this is by means of carrots for employers in the employment of young people. An example of this is a temporary reduction in employers' contributions for under 30-year-olds or a similar measure. The number of young people's apprenticeships also needs to be increased. This requires incentives for employers to make apprenticeships for young people more attractive. A good way of doing this is, for example, to grant a pay subsidy for the entire apprenticeship period so that the young person does not have to leave school first and register as unemployed, but that the pay subsidy can be obtained immediately from the educational institution. Young people really need well-functioning cross-sectoral services, which have proved to be effective and effective, developed under the previous government. The services of young people need to be improved, and we need to ensure that every young person has employment plans and that the concerns are answered. Above all, young people need to face up and support their everyday lives. President! Young people have the future of this country, so it is important to encourage entrepreneurship, education and employment among young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u113	Madam President! Of course, it would have been desirable for the representatives of the People's Party to have also stayed to hear these excellent speeches that have already been made. The government has taken a number of steps to ensure that we Finns get out of this exceptional time and crisis caused by the interest rate as well as possible. The daily lives, livelihoods and well-being of many entrepreneurs, employees, families with children and pensioners have been shaken in the midst of the corona crisis. The temporary payment of EUR 75 for the epidemic is indeed a significant hand-out for all the most vulnerable people and is targeted fairly at those who are already in the most vulnerable situation. Mr President! The Family Federation today published its recommendations on increasing family friendliness in order to give everyone the opportunity to implement their child's wishes as well as possible. A clear message to us decision-makers was that this also requires pinching the poverty of families with children. There is a phenomenon in birth that is called socio-economic polarisation. Having a child focuses on those who are resource-rich, i.e. those with education and income. Needless to say, it is a matter of personal solutions for everyone, and the choice of infertility is as valuable as anything else, but we must now turn our attention to those who, for economic reasons, find it difficult to carry out their child recovery in order to tackle the inequality of birth. Mr President! In Finland, the vast majority of us have realised that universal services ensure better welfare-based poverty assistance, and on this basis society has been developed to be more equal. That is why, even now, we must look at children's allowances. It has been estimated that in order to achieve the real level of child supplements in 1994, they should be increased by up to 47% to 68%. We need to catch up on the welfare debt by correcting the post-disposal of child supplements. But, Mr President, we also need temporary and faster solutions at the moment. One easy and simple solution would be the extra payment dates for child supplements, which I raised in my debate. Mr President! We also have clear evidence that, over the last decade, uncertainty about the basic conditions of life has increased in many minds. It is difficult, if not impossible, to even think about your own child’s estate if you constantly worry about your own livelihood, work and living. If you can't afford to rent a studio apartment, let alone own it how you could afford a family home. We in this Chamber have a key role to play in creating hope and faith in the future in society,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u114	Mr President! I would like to continue the debate on this epidemic compensation, because this debate has been a little confusing here today. This temporary epidemic allowance is therefore intended to be paid to persons who received basic income support during the limitation measures if they are still beneficiaries. There are a lot of elderly people in this group, for example. This support is justified in particular by the fact that the most low-income citizens have little buffer to the unexpected expenditure increases caused, among other things, by this interest rate. That is why their situation has become particularly critical. It is humane to help them, and I find it very difficult to understand why this support is being opposed here. I think, for example, that the mother or father of many low-income elderly people and poor families of children has listened with horror to this debate, because there have been speeches here which have, as it were, underestimated people in need of help or their need for help. Not all pensioners and families with children need this support, and that is why this support is now well targeted. To the end, Mr President: Mr Vanhanen said at that end that next week the budget will be dealt with in an economically dangerous situation. I agree — and that is why the conditions for the organisations to operate must be safeguarded. Society simply cannot afford to lose the welfare work produced by organisations. Indeed, the public sector will never be able to replace or take up all the work that is being done in organisations, especially among those who are otherwise excluded from all assistance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u115	Mr President! The signs of the current economic crisis existed a year ago. At that time, companies were already preparing for a recession and planning restructuring measures. Now large employers are taking advantage of the corona crisis to gain general acceptance of large-scale redundancies. They are strongly justified by the interest rate, although the cause is much more common: maximising profits. Example of Turku, where Meyer Shipyard laid off 166 employees in August. However, according to the messages I received from the shipyard, those made redundant have been replaced by subcontractors, they did not respect any social responsibility, they did not take into account the possibilities for workers to re-employment, family situations or anything else. The redundancies were carried out by a consulting company. The workers were immediately removed from the information systems so that they could no longer pass through the doors. That's very rude of you. Further to these redundancies at the shipyard will follow in the autumn. The responsible employer responsible for the skilled labour force would have taken care of temporary redundancies. After all, that is what the state has now created. As an employer, the irresponsibility of Turku Shipyard is highlighted by the fact that the company has not paid any corporate tax to Finland since it bought the yard in 2014. And as we know, the state made a significant contribution to the shipyard trade, as well as the City of Turku. So a company, a shipyard, has needed a society, but there is no social responsibility. Another example of the UPM Kaipola factory, which has now caused national noise for every reason. The basic reason for the plant's closure is the ease and cheapness of dismissal in Finland compared to Germany, among others. I expect proposals from the government to strengthen the protection against dismissal in Finland. There would also be a concrete action for employment. After all, it is outrageous that UPM distributes top dividends, generously rewards its leadership and hardly invests more than apparently mainly in South America and the Far East. Kaipola’s annual salary cost for 450 employees was approximately 28 million in 2019. The total salary cost of 12 members of UPM's management team was EUR 25 million. This, too, is a harsh language worthy of the company. Such employers should really be put under control in Finland. It now appears that employers are threatening redundancies in order to get through the laws of working life, local agreements and payment relief. Even wage cuts are being demanded. This attack is coordinated by EK, Finnish Entrepreneurs and the main employers' associations. In many of the basic industries, workers are already at the end of their working lives. There is a real need for the pension pipeline, which in Finland has given security to this particular group in the event of dismissal. It is therefore surprising that the Ministry of Finance and employers are now calling for the pension line to be completely abolished. I mean, you're a
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u116	Madam President! I welcome the government's proposal for temporary epidemic compensation. This tax-free aid would amount to EUR 75 per person per month. The compensation would support economically vulnerable persons and families in a situation where the relief measures resulting from the interest rate have entailed extra costs. Such situations have been caused, for example, by the increased food costs of schoolchildren in homes, even though the municipalities did well to arrange, among other things, the delivery of food bags as a substitute for school meals. The aid would cover persons who have received basic income support during the restricted activities if they are still beneficiaries of basic income support during the payment period of the grant in autumn 2020. The aid to be provided is fixed-term, i.e. it would be paid in September, October, November and December this year, as the consequences of the corona epidemic have also been estimated to be transitory. In the previous debate in this Chamber on this subject, it was suggested that support should have been linked to child allowances in order to target children. In doing so, the aid would not have been limited to low income families with children but would have been granted to all recipients of child benefit. This temporary compensation is intended to support those who are genuinely disadvantaged. In addition, there is concern that all low-income and low- and middle-income people affected by the corona epidemic may not receive aid if they have not applied for or received income support in the spring or are not eligible for it this autumn. The aim of the Government proposal is to provide for the benefit on a timely basis and to be implemented quickly so that financial assistance is readily available and the process of granting the benefit is as easy as possible on an administrative basis. If the beneficiary should apply for the aid himself, some of the beneficiaries would certainly not be able to do so because they would not be able to act on their own initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u117	Mr President! This amending budget provides for an amount of EUR 60 million for temporary epidemic compensation. Many Members have spoken well about it here, and I too say that it is quite a welcome increase in this budget, and I think it is important because it is aimed at the recipients of income support, because it is in that way that the right people who are most in need of it can be found. However, I would like to stress that this is only temporary aid and that these people who receive this aid would certainly also be delighted if the protective part of enforcement were raised and the Guarantee Fund were given additional funds to allow these short-term loans to be obtained through more than short-term loans. But, Mr President, I wanted to focus my speech on this corona aid, which has been targeted at businesses, and in particular on this issue of the event industry. Among other things, representatives of Heinonen, Wallinheimo and Multala have spoken about it here, and we have been asked, from us members of the coalition, what we have done in this regard. Mr President! I would like to point out that when this interest rate subsidy was decided in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy at the end of June, an additional paragraph was added to the report which stated that industries which are comparable to the restaurant industry, i.e. those which have not been able to carry out their activities in the normal way, for example because of these restrictions on assembly or travel restrictions, would be eligible for their own criteria in the way in which they can be supported. But this has not happened, and that is why, on 31.7., we Members of Parliament in the Assembly tabled a written question as to whether the government intends to comply with the requirement of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to draw up those separate criteria. Mr President! Now that we look back at that cost support, it was EUR 300 million, but it was only EUR 108 million. It is also seen that about 73% of applications have been rejected. A large proportion of these wreckages are due to the fact that the amount would have been less than EUR 2000 and the reason why it would have been less than EUR 2000 is due to the fact that there were quite strong cutters there. Of course, we knew this was going to be the cutters, but we could not predict how powerful they are. Mr President! We would therefore like this interest rate subsidy to be assessed as a whole, whether it has been correctly targeted and how these criteria should be changed, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u118	Mr President! I have already taken a brief one-minute speech in that debate, focusing on important content issues, and this speech on this fifth amending budget is now more technical, someone might say, for example, that a little camprean, but I am doing so because I think it is very valuable and important to see how many different kinds of effects in the state economy and in the public finances are in general, which is also reflected in this amending budget. First, a few comments on the revenue side. Of course, the point of reference there is the estimates made in the spring, that is, now that we are talking, and I said that there is a plus, that means that in relation to the estimates we have evaluated in the spring. The corporate tax revenue is now estimated at EUR 139 million more than expected in spring and value added tax as high as EUR 1045 million and alcohol tax at EUR 48 million, i.e. a total of EUR 1232 million in a certain way will increase revenue, not, of course, any real additional revenue, but rather estimates compared to the situation last spring. Similarly, the tax side has then also been assessed for a reduction in tax revenue. This is the case with the tobacco tax and the transfer tax. The total amount is EUR 211 million. And when we add these together, in a way, this effect of the estimated additional taxes will amount to EUR 1021 million. Well, when we go to the side of the budget, i.e. the expenditure side, there are eight different appropriations which are now being added. The most important of these is what has just been discussed here, this epidemic allowance. A total of EUR 225 million will be added to the eight different appropriations. Similarly, there will also be — i.e. I will not use the word ‘savings’other than in the quotes — an estimate of certain expenditures whichare lower than estimated by theretirementretirementretirement error, and this effect will be EUR459 million. When we combine all of these, both these increased estimates of revenue and the reduced estimates of revenue and the increased estimates of expenditure and the reduced estimates of expenditure, we will now be able to reduce the need for borrowing by EUR 1255 million, in other words, in this nutshell in a certain way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u119	Mr President! This proposal by the government for an additional budget is certainly appropriate and correct at the time, and it is not appropriate to disagree very much about it. It is important to note that there has been a response to the situation caused by the corona crisis. That's the point, isn't it? Is it good or bad? In my opinion, such exercises have never been carried out in this country so that, in my view, they have been very successful. No one has practiced this, and if someone says that that was wrong, you might actually wish that you didn’t have to have that other exercise anymore, but that we would go quietly and, based on the experience gained, move forward and make the right decisions. No one wishes for crises like this. In his excellent speech, Mr Lindén went through the phenomena associated with the flow of money in times of crisis. What was predicted five months ago or a few months ago is already old information today, and we will know whether this is true or not in a few months' time. Things are changing so fast. But what I have to say to all of you, Mr President, is that I only regret the fact that there is so little in the church: the problem is that we are currently experiencing a phenomenon in Finland in which the end of the Kaipola paper mill is one of the pain points, it is only a single event in that chain. As a forestman, I can't be silent about following a forest industry down in Finland. We are currently undergoing a huge restructuring process, and it is based on the fact that, now that this debate on peat has fallen into quite absurd proportions, and now in the Government Programme — for example, President-in-Office of the Council Rinne certainly knows it better than I do — it reads in plain Finnish that wood with a higher added value is not exported to heating plants. At the moment, it is driven by millions of mottos, with no sorrow, directly to combustion plants. I even know areas where a large part of private forest wood goes directly to the burning. Trades are no longer made with forest companies; they go directly to power plants. Every single mott that is burned from fibrewood — or bad logwood — goes into the burning process — produces a loss of EUR 242 to the Finnish economy. And this is going to lead us to the fact that now that we're running a search abroad, we're taking a huge risk of an insect pest. It will hit the state economy in the next few years like a tsunami, its effects will be absolutely shocking. We have machine contractors going down, truckers going down, loggers can almost forget, when there is no money to pay them wages anymore, industrial jobs disappear, and here we are talking about wise climate policy, that we catch up with peat, even though it grows more every year with huge power. Why do we let our hands pass through such huge, huge mistakes and pretend in this house that we are doing well when climate policy is done? To this, Mr President, I would like to see some sense and a longer debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u120	Mr Hoskonen, on the recommendation of the President-in-Office in this Chamber, non-participants are in their own offices, and that is why there are so few people in the Chamber, but people are working in their rooms and following the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u121	Irade the Talman! We can discuss peat at another stage. There's a lot to say about that, too. Of course, we have been called upon to be in our offices, but perhaps this number of participants here also tells us that this is a rather undramatic, rather technical, supplementary budget geared to specific specific needs. From here on the right side of the hall there are criticisms of this 60 million people, i.e. that people who depend on basic income are now being helped. The criticism is that some of those who receive this aid have been born abroad, perhaps they are different from us, perhaps they are still a little less able to speak the language of the country, and because this is being supported, obviously it is such a repulsive idea, it is considered that it should be exported from everyone else. This is a peculiar world view, a world view which I find quite regrettable. Mr Kauman raised a good idea here about the protective part of enforcement, and I would like that to be taken into consideration. But when you consider how this crisis has gone, we have had a number of restrictions, but in many ways perhaps less than in many other countries. However, the factories have worked, the restaurants were opened pretty soon, the schools were opened as soon as it was considered that it was possible — precise, well thought-out restrictive measures, although the opposition has become a very contradictory signal as to whether there is too much or too little, and sometimes both have been called for in the same sentence. But it can be said that this has gone well. Business subsidies are a blunt weapon. When it comes to supporting businesses, it is inevitable that some of them will be hit wrong, but I hope that most of them will be well hit. The services sector has been supported at the beginning of the year, restaurants have been supported, but it is quite true that the companies involved in the event and the tourism industry have now suffered a considerable amount of suffering, and it is therefore essential that travel restrictions be kept under review and dismantled as soon as possible. It is noteworthy that as far as travel is concerned, Finland now seems to be the strictest restrictions in Europe. That we need to keep an eye on that situation. Industry will suffer at the end of the year and will suffer next year, and when you consider what you could do to industry, it is worth noting that you can also support without costs, there are also ways of supporting which are cost-neutral. If, on the one hand, there is a clear outlook, but also the possibility of flexibility, it will support industry without being a budgetary cost to the state. It would therefore be important to move ahead with local reconciliation and also to review the accounting methods that can be introduced: even if there is a combination of financial periods.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u122	Mr President! The government has acted responsibly. This has been said from a great many mouths and, as we have heard before, health above all has been able to reduce disease, and at the same time it has kept the economy up in a certain way. There are different regional differences here. At least in my own province, when I look at this and the Teams discussion that took place yesterday with the Chamber of Commerce, it seems that the summer has been a very good one. Tourism has been very good, it has replaced tourism from abroad. The retail trade has done well, even record records have been made this summer. The only problem is the availability of labour at the moment. So this domestic tourism has replaced it very much. And what has been said here is that the local government finances have received better tax revenues, so it is precisely because of this, that the country has travelled and consumed, and in that way it has been possible to increase the tax revenues of the municipalities through these own domestic purchases. If the government had not taken these decisions, what has been done and what has been approved by Parliament, there would certainly be a considerable wave of bankruptcy at the moment and the loss of jobs would be considerably greater than what it is now. As we all know, next week there will be a budget debate in which these work-related decisions will be taken and efforts will also be made to help tourists in Northern Finland. It is very sad that so many tourism companies are now making a break or lay off. Last week we also heard good messages in the sense that VR is increasing long-distance transport to Lapland and Northern Finland in the autumn, which means that tourism is still taking place, and we now hope that this will correct some of the losses that have come from the corona. It can only be welcomed that a total of 1.3 billion less had to be borrowed by the State now compared to the original plan. As stated earlier here, these are estimates and tax revenues are still being assessed and then, at the end of the year, we will know what this outcome is, but at the moment it looks reasonably good. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u123	Mr President! It has been mentioned here today that this amending budget is boring. I have to say that I am boring myself, because I am tired of highlighting the risk of corona that we may still be facing. And I can see that we are already in the second wave, so many cases are always revealed every day around Finland. It is very important that we remember the instructions and instructions when operating and moving, and that is how every Finn prevents these coronavirus infections. The interest is not only a health crisis, it is also an economic crisis, it is an employment crisis — three hard Ts, and as a spearhead these three things are heading towards autumn. Mr President! There has been talk here of this corona allowance and the position of the Finns. I would like to ask the question of who has suffered most during the corona crisis. It would be very important to find out which group of people has been in the greatest economic crisis. There are many low-income pensioners who, however, are not covered by income support, they do not have that decision. On the other hand, very many people who have this decision on income support also receive the discretionary income support as well as assistance for other expenses, such as medical reimbursements when they have a prescription and medical expenses, which means that they will then be able to obtain the help of society, as they should. It is very important for us to deal with the situation of a middle-income person in this corona crisis, a single parent who is suddenly unemployed, laid off — there are rent arrears, there are large items of expenditure that have contributed to survival. Mr President! I hope that we decision-makers understand the crisis in health care and the pressure the workers are under there. HUS’s shop steward announced that corona load narrows down the limits of endurance, and this is such an emergency cry that we need to hear it. According to HUS diagnostics director Lasse Lehtonen, HUS has recruited 180 new employees, but this is not enough. While we are calling for faster testing here and for people to have a faster answer and result, we need to understand that man is doing the tests, man is there, and more and more of those people are needed. I know as a nurse — my phone has been ringing in the summer too, because I have been working before this corona wave, for example night shifts — that there are no employees and no people there, and that means that people, nurses, have voted on their feet and leave the industry because the corona is such a dangerous situation at the moment. The Finns have raised this corona allowance, and hopefully
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u124	Mr President! Our job is to create hope. Finland’s disease situation is among the best in the world. The second wave of Korona is, because of the responsible actions of the government and the obedience of the Finns, a gentle remnant — good. Continue to follow the instructions, but do not give birth or feed fear unnecessarily. Society must be kept as open as possible. Different regions need to be able to make the right decisions and act in such a way that not everywhere is done in the same way. I am concerned about the rise in unemployment among young people. Young people were already aware of their mental health problems before the corona, but now they have become more pronounced. At the turn of the week, I spoke to a person who worked with young unemployed people. He said that the most important measure is to get mental health services in order. The Centre has proposed a youth support package to increase the number of apprenticeships, for example. Apprenticeship training is the only way for many young people who may not be able to do well in school and use their own strengths. This system needs to be strengthened in order for businesses to take young women and men on the path of apprenticeships, but it also requires the development of mental health services. As many measures as possible are needed to help young people. We have a challenging autumn ahead of us. All employment measures should be reviewed. We'll work together across party lines.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u125	Mr President! When I did not get the floor in that debate, I will pay attention to a few things. Many times in this Chamber there has been talk of opening and tearing up the government program. I think that the big picture of the Government Programme fits perfectly at this time: future investment, renewal and growth perspective, investment in knowledge and research and product development. I really do not think that the government should give up this vision, and I do not think that will happen. And the investments that have already been made, such as future investment in growth, will then lead to employment. Well, there has been enough talk of employment in this Chamber again today, but it is now essential to create that new growth and those new jobs. If you look at this familiar list of canes — local agreement, reduced income support, the differentiation of earnings-related daily allowance — how many new jobs do these create? None. During the debut, I tried to google the employment measures of the people of Peru. There are many points where it says that important employment measures are needed, but I could not find the list of the important employment measures. All in all, if you look at this big picture, then the government has managed to make a European comparison, both in terms of the economy and then in terms of the suppression of the interest rate, and, of course, the government has quite rightly received its thanks in this Chamber. Well, then, to this section of the municipal economy, which we talk about here — and sometimes we talk about it with arguments that don't have heads or tails. In spring, the government has strengthened local government finances by 1.4 billion LTA in four, and I believe that the local government finances will then rise strongly in the budget debate. It is clear that the local government finances will probably still have to be helped, and we already have some good tools in the LTA 4 that we could then help to strengthen the local government finances by continuing to do so. Then to this amending budget. I think it is great that this government, however, is looking after those who are currently doing less well. I believe that this increase in the payment of the epidemic is a humane and fair measure in this extra-economic assessment of the 6th.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u126	Mr President! During the interest-rate crisis, the state has supported many parties, thank you for that, but one group has been completely forgotten, and I ask: did Sari Nurse remain in politics as a case where no one will present any increases to nurses and other health care staff? Health care personnel put themselves and their loved ones at risk every day while caring for others, and in Finland, too, their share of the corona is significant. Many European countries have taken into account the dangerous work of health workers. There's been an increase in wages and paid for coronals. Here are some examples of what has been done in other European countries: in Iceland, the government has already in April given a billion ISK, i.e. EUR 6.3 million, State aid for healthcare professionals' interest rates. In July, a lump sum of EUR 1500 was paid to care staff working in the services of the elderly in Germany — both nurses, carers and personal assistants, smaller compensation of between EUR 500 and EUR 900 was granted to other workers. In Sweden, a number of different types of compensation have been agreed on by region: a lump sum of EUR 1925 has been paid to ICU employees, EUR 1450 has been paid for the necessary transfer of leave and EUR 385 monthly interest compensation has been paid to each person working with the corona patient. In the Netherlands, a lump sum of EUR 1000 is paid to each local nurse, cleaner and institutional nurse in various social and health care units. In France, a tax-free interest compensation of between EUR 500 and EUR 1500 was already granted in spring, with an average monthly wage increase of EUR 183 in July and EUR 160 million in August for home care workers. Governments have also earmarked millions for bonuses for health care staff in other European countries, but how in Finland? No matter how hard I have tried to see and hear, I have not found in any budget any place where health care staff has been rewarded for the enormously important work they have done. My question now is: would it be time to appreciate the work of the medical staff and to demonstrate it in concrete terms in euros? I very much hope that this will happen in Finland too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u127	Mr President! Uncertainty about the future is present in all homes and in every workplace in this time. Unfortunately, the bad news about the start of the negotiations is that we have almost daily readings. I wonder what would bring hope to this country now this autumn, and I cannot end up with anything other than the fact that what is at least in our hands here in Parliament is the budget for the coming year and, on the other hand, the opportunity to undertake reforms to create new jobs in Finland and to reform Finland so that we can save existing jobs and build conditions for new growth and job creation. In the recent debate, Finance Minister Matti Vanhanen admitted that the scale envisaged by the government, 30,000 jobs, will not be enough, and I would add that it will not even be enough to begin. That is why I ask what prevents the Finnish Government from taking decisions to strengthen employment by more than one hundred thousand new jobs, as we have proposed in the meeting. We have therefore listed for the government a programme to create more than 100,000 new jobs in Finland with a very rapid effect. These means are based on researched knowledge, they have research sources involved and they are really freely available. I believe or lack of courage, or perhaps not wanting to piss off some of our own supporters or supporters or Hakaniemi — is that the reason why we are not prepared to do everything we can for Finnish jobs? I hope that the country's government will really think about this scale before next week's budget debate and will be able to deal with it. We, as a responsible opposition party, are prepared to support even difficult decisions that create work in Finland and thus a belief in the future. As we have supported the government in dealing with the corona crisis, in declaring exceptional conditions in Finland and in the difficult decisions taken all last spring, we are ready now if the government assumes its responsibilities and makes the decisions that Finland now needs. In short, the current situation in the field of events. Today we received greetings from Parliament in this area. It's a job-creating sector. It is also a joy - producing industry. Nothing happens in Finland without events,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u128	I would like to add two more words to this debate. This matter shall then be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u129	Mr President! There is a great deal of employment activity here in the coalition. It is supposed to worry about Finnish jobs and at the same time presents social security weaknesses, nothing much more. This is today's employer policy, although at the same time it is very conservative. There is a desire to reduce employers' social responsibility and responsibility for social security, to maximise the profits to be distributed to owners. It should only be possible to hire and discard the labour force, how it happens to companies to agree at any time. Perhaps you manage to distract the public into thinking that you would really take care of employment when you paint and throw big promises out of over 100,000 jobs with a large enough brush. But, Mr President, at least in Turku this diversion of the Coalition Party will not succeed. Because that's where your scheme is known. There, the city’s sovereign leadership is currently pushing down the associations of the unemployed who have been working for the long - term unemployed in the city for years. By the decisions of the Mayor of the Coalition Party, the Chief of Staff and the City Council, led by the Coalition Party, the City Council has cut the grants of the Associations so that they will fall this autumn. It is not interested in the bankruptcy cabinet of Mayor Arve in Turku that these associations have actually saved at least hundreds of thousands of euros of taxpayers' money over the years. People employed by associations from labour market support to work have saved the city a very significant share of the municipality to be paid. Savings are thus created, although the most important thing is, of course, the job opportunities created by the activities of these associations and other social good in the lives of very many people. So this is what the coalition actually does. It doesn't care about employment. It doesn't care about people's jobs. Look at the details.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u130	Due to the nature of the matter, I will give Mr Grahn-Laasonen the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u131	Thank you, Mr President. When we listen to the message of the organisations — including the associations of the unemployed — that is the main concern at the moment in the direction of the country's government and next year's budget. Matti Vanhanen, Minister of Finance, in the draft budget, is disappearing from the financial organisations, and even a third of the funding is being discussed. This is certainly a concern that I hope will unite all the parliamentary parties. We need to find solutions to secure the activities of NGOs both in Turku and throughout Finland, because Finland will not survive this crisis and will not survive in the long term without the voluntary activities and the involvement of civil society in Finland. I hope that this message will now be strongly heard from all parties in the direction of the country's government. In the budget debate, solutions must be found to secure funding for social and health organisations as well as for culture, physical activity, sport, youth work and science.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u132	There is now a two-and-a-half-hour debate, but Mr Hopsu is still there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u133	Thank you, Mr President. As Mr Grahn-Laasonen has said, there is no doubt that we all agree that the funding of the organisations must be secured, and the budget is still working on them at the moment. But yesterday I visited Espoo's food assistants, last week with Vantaa's food assistants, and the need for food aid has increased during the corona period, and there are new customers arriving there, which means that this epidemic allowance for all the most vulnerable is bound to be needed. The second part of this draft amending budget is a small but delightful climate action, a change in subsidies for the abandonment of municipal buildings from 10% to 20%. After all, that change could be a little bigger when the local government finances are tense so that the Government’s goal of ending the oil heating of municipal buildings by 24 C.E. can be achieved. The joy of this change is also that these climate projects bring new jobs and are climate-friendly recovery. The tight economic situation in the municipalities has been raised several times in this debate. My hometown of Espoo has also been mentioned about the economy and the tight situation. A little has to be done to correct the Finns that the state resources collected in Espoo do not end up in Europe, however, but for the benefit of the whole country. However, this division needs to be considered in order to maintain the vitality of growth cities. And once again, when the budget line is instructed or tightened, I will raise the importance of investing in knowledge. It cannot be saved by a small country if they want new work and success here. I also share the concern raised here about the tourism and event industries, which have fallen short of compensation. Artists, performing artists and those sole entrepreneurs who have fallen outside the support of this municipalities — we still have such entrepreneurial groups and groups whose livelihoods must be secured, too, so that the increase in unemployment will not increase there. Which means there's still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u134	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u135	We shall now proceed to the fifth reading of item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u136	Mr President! I'm gonna have to level my breath here when I was getting a little busy in that office. In Finland, we spend 11 billion a year on mental health problems. It is quite clear that the interest rate, with all its phenomena, will not reduce this amount very much. But at the same time we have to ask whether it is possible for us to raise that amount at times like these. Preventive work, early intervention, rapid access to appropriate treatment are ways of addressing mental health problems in a significant way, and these elements also have a considerable saving element in many respects. Organisations play a vital role in mental health problems. Without the action of the third sector, the situation would be much worse. Now a third of the funding of the organisations is being cut off. In terms of money, it amounts to approximately EUR 127 million. We all readily understand that there are no additional resources in the organisations today. In doing so, the activities of the organisations will be crippled and will hit exactly where it hurts the most, the lives of the people most in need of help and support. Such action will further increase inequalities, exclusion and a wide range of social problems. Mental health is not the only sector where the activities of organisations are vital. I would like to mention, for example, Mrs Puijola, who works in many areas of invaluable importance, including with girls who have experienced sexual violence, with mothers of small children, immigrants, violent offenders returning to society and close relatives who have been sentenced to prison. What happens when a significant part of such activity is cut off? What will happen to the people to whom the activities of such organizations are just the salvation of life? Mr President! Without the valuable work of the organisations, we would be talking about a completely different welfare society. It may be that we are only talking about society, that welfare has long been forgotten.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u137	Mr President! In fact, I would like to pick up on what I have here a few times, when I have had speeches in the presence of ministers on the budget, in other words on the municipal economy. We in Hyvinkää, as in many other municipalities, who have never had to seek any help, have now also had to seek this so-called 'poor help' from the state. We are indeed having difficulties financially, even though we have balanced and tried to search for targets, but when basic services must also be provided and if the state shares do not rise, then it is the municipal tax that will be the solution. Of course, these unfortunately inadequate employment measures and employment measures in general are waiting for themselves, and, as I have said, it means that in the municipalities the fine payments, that is to say these municipal unemployment benefits, have risen from prolonged unemployment. I asked Mr Vanhanen last Thursday about this and then he did not really know it, and today Mr Paatero did not promise it, but he even dated the model in his speeches that he said that ‘there are no changes coming at the moment’,but he said that ‘the employment experiment is on the way’—there are certainly no thousands of people going to go to the butterhouses,I guess now everyone understands that there is no solution in the big picture. However, ‘in the future’, he says, ‘this is So, once again, I thought to bring this point to the representatives of the government parties, that the municipalities have very little opportunity to influence the development of employment. Of course, the availability of corporate plots and its type of municipal attraction can be influenced, but the big employment measures now come through the government, and the municipalities are in real trouble. It affects purchasing power and whether people can use services, and the fact that taxation is being tightened in its entirety, because it is living in the same purse, and even if the taxation of the state is not being tightened, if consumption taxes are tightened, such as fuel tax is being tightened, and municipal taxes are being tightened, then people will have less to deal with. I would now like to remind you that this is a very important issue. Now that Mr Kiljunen is here at least and there are others there, please take this message forward. We are also quite a few municipal decision-makers, and we are in a very difficult situation, and the poor payment situation in the municipalities also leaves. After all, the government promised to cover the costs of the interest rate, and indeed these costs of prolonged unemployment are part of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u138	Mr President! Today, at 2:30 p.m., there was a lively debut. A quarter of the MPs were present, with a total of 65 debatable speeches being made. For one reason or another, I did not receive this debate, although for the whole hour and a half I sat in this Chamber and, of course, several times asked for it. I have decided that I will make that debate literally to the Minutes, and that is happening right now — not quite literally to the Minutes. So, Mr President, Mr Vanhanen has just presented this amending budget and said that this is boring. This lively debate, which has been in this Chamber, was not boring in any way and tells us that there are at least two big things in this budget: one is what does not appear there in the figures, and the other is what appears there. What is not visible there is the fact that we were prepared for a much larger debt-taking, over one billion, and it tells of a well-managed fight against corona in Finland. In that sense, thank you to the government. I wondered what the opposition was saying. Mr Ranta used his basic remarks, but Mr Meri also spoke, among others, in which he continued to criticise the government strongly despite the fine conduct of the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u141	However, in connection with this debate, I have to say that there is a request from the Council of Presidents to be absent from this Chamber when there are no speeches, and it may be that this is why the Chamber is so empty at the moment. It must also be pointed out now in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u142	Mr President! At the very beginning, Mr Scream must be praised for his excellent speech, which is very good. But, Mr President, thank you for allowing me to speak again. The Government will ensure that the operating conditions of primary agricultural and rural production enterprises are safeguarded. This fifth amending budget, after all, proposes EUR 30 million for enterprises in primary rural and agricultural production in order to safeguard the operating conditions, because this corona crisis has in fact led to a significant reduction in the sales of products and services. And this is such an indication from the government — when speeches are always made at beautiful banquets that Finnish food production is needed, and during that weekend the Finnish food day was celebrated — and these are the real signals that the speeches will then be moved to the level of concreteness. I would like to thank the government and also to thank Finnish farmers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u143	President! I am the only representative of the opposition here because of this corona — and I am sure the President has just said so — there were quite a few generalisations. I am speaking here on behalf of all the opposition representatives. I'm not going to tell you what other people are saying, but there's a lot of people in it that aren't here right now. Of course, we have to deal with these in such a way that I did not hear any direct quotes from there. Then Congressman Kiljunen said I was on someone's team. Yes, I am indeed a member of the Finnish People's Party, but if you had listened carefully, I have been talking about these municipal finances today. To be precise, I did not even take a position on this matter of income support, but I can see that Mr Kiljunen is now in need of a great deal of criticism from the opposition. In some ways, I see that it is somewhat worrying that, for example, in that earlier debate, when we talked about these parties, the group president in the centre said that there is no real need for new parties, and then it is always the case that we should not bring criticism and that the opposition is just barking. First of all, I've never heard anyone here very aggressive. People out there often say, "Why are you fighting there?" We're not fighting. We just disagree. And we're here as a representative. Even those who have spoken to him that we are sitting at the same coffee table, so that this is not in itself any barking. Yes, every one of us at home says to our own children — this is a very different level — that you promised yesterday that you would start cleaning your own room. Well, then, shouldn't you say next week that you didn't start it anyway? For over a year now, we have been waiting for these employment measures. However, there was no interest, for example, last autumn at this time. They've been moved and moved and moved. I understand that there has been this crisis, and the opposition gave a great deal of room at the time, and we, as an opposition, have, for example, continued to give space and we have not made a number of them. For example, each representative would have the right to vote in the Chamber. That cannot be prevented by the Constitution. But we've always wanted to be part of these collective efforts. As I said, with foreign travel, for example in Central Uusimaa, 90% of imported diseases are imported, as our leader in social services said. I don't know if that's a success. That's what Mr. Kiljunen can think about. And then, what did I say about, for example, municipal finances — is that a success? That, too, is something that Mr. Kiljunen can think about. But in this kind of small opposition joint defense, I can't say that anyone else is behind me than this bag of mine here, but that's what I wanted to say on this side too. Thank you for a lively conversation. I don't want you to disagree, and I don't take it as a bark at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u144	I note that the sitting order of this Chamber and the way in which it is now being conducted have been agreed between the parliamentary groups, and the Council of Presidents has jointly decided on them without any sound of gravel.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u145	Mr President! My speech was not, and is not, directed at the criticism of the fact that there is a quarter of us in the Chamber. It was about giving 65 speeches, some using four speeches and some not using them. Mr Meri referred here a moment ago to the fact that I did not use direct quotes. Your two-minute group speech by Lulu Ranta strongly criticises the government for its interest rate stances — a direct quote: ‘coronamiles’. In addition, the ‘responsible economy’—directquot representativeLuluRantaa
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u148	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u149	Mr President! This government proposal provides for a temporary amendment of the law on package travel services providers by the addition of a new Article 10a concerning the payment of claims to passengers from State resources in certain cases. The main objective of the proposal is to ensure a level playing field for consumers in the event of the bankruptcy of the tour operator. This amendment would enter into force as soon as possible and be in force until the end of 2022. The proposal relates to the effects of the covid-19 epidemic. The aim of the proposal is to ensure a level playing field for all consumers in the bankruptcy of the tour operator in situations where the tour operator is legally obliged to refund the advance payments paid by passengers or the value of the corresponding travel vouchers. In addition, the aim is to make the receipt of travel vouchers a fair alternative for consumers to return the price in cash. The proposal proposes that the passenger may be compensated for the costs of cancellation of the package by the State in the event of the bankruptcy of the tour operator. These claims are legally repatriated by the tour operator. The condition is that the cancellation is due to an epidemic of coronavirus and that the claims cannot be reimbursed for the guarantees lodged by the tour operator. This also applies to travel vouchers accepted by the passenger instead of reimbursement. A passenger should submit an application for compensation to the Competition and Consumer Authority, which would decide on the payment of the compensation and pay the compensation. The law would be fixed-term and valid until the end of 2022. However, the law would apply to claims arising after the imposition of national travel restrictions, i.e. not earlier than 16 March 1920. The proposal relates to the State's amending budget for 2020 and will be dealt with in this context. The fifth draft amending budget for 2020 presented by the Ministry of Finance proposes a new allocation of EUR 2 million for the new item.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u150	Mr President! This government proposal really assumes that the sums lost by the tour operator through state resources could now be reimbursed to the passenger, and that is what EUR 2 million has now been earmarked for in this amending budget. Mr President! My own thoughts on this are somewhat divisive because, of course, for a tourist who has lost that money, it is a happy news that he can get his money back in the event of bankruptcy, but, on the other hand, it also comes to mind that would not it be a priority to prevent the bankruptcy of the tour operator? As far as this subject is concerned, I have already asked the government a written question on a number of occasions, asking, among other things, that, once these corona subsidies have been drawn up, we have certain sectors which have suffered more than usual, even though they have not been closed down in the same way as the restaurant sector last spring, for example, and this is precisely the travel agency sector and the sector that has spoken a lot today. I would remind you that in many EU countries there is a voucher model in which the customer can always get his money back, regardless of whether he has consented to it or not. In Finland, we always need that consent, and that is, in a way, a good thing, but the downside is that tour operators always have to pay these costs abroad in advance to their subcontractors, and then they can't get that money back from there, and that's where these difficult situations come from. The travel agency sector has also proposed a kind of guarantee fund that could be introduced, and it was used in Parliament a few years ago and also in the EU Parliament when the Package Travel Directive was discussed. There were some constitutional problems, but I would also like this model to be re-examined. Mr President! Today, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, this bill came before us and we will continue to do so this week. I hope that we will finally be able to deal with this situation in the travel agencies. At the end of June, when we last discussed this issue in our report, we specifically stressed the need for the criteria to be established in cooperation with this sector, but this has still not happened. I hope, Mr President and Minister Haatainen, that you will really take this up now, and in the next amending budget we will then be able to see money for this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u151	Mr President! Just as Mr Kauma has said here, I am somewhat divisive about this, because it is really the case that only when the tour operator is bankrupt can it be replaced. After all, the situation is that tourism in Finland is in very serious difficulties — very serious difficulties — and the concern that this entails is, first of all, that this really means that the company is bankrupt before the booker, the buyer of the service, receives compensation. But then the second point is that EUR 2 million has been earmarked for this now in this amending budget. At least I am concerned that no impact assessments have been carried out here, that this level is even where it should be. For example, if I read correctly this week, Finnair currently has some EUR 40 million in passenger money, which of course has nothing to do with this because Finnair is not bankrupt. But my concern is that, now that this is the second bill, what is in this amending budget, where there are no impact assessments, it would of course be nice to hear whether this type of legislation is very smart in the sense that it would be better to hear what the effects are, what the needs are. Which means I'd be happy to hear from the minister. Surely the starting point is that one way or another in the whole of the EU must be able to make solutions that enable safe tourism. At the moment, our own Finnair does not fly much from Finland, but many other airlines fly back and forth across Europe. I think that this is the first thing that needs to be resolved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u152	Mr President! This is a very interesting matter. In fact, I have been contacted from many different directions in such a situation that in January I have booked a flight from Helsinki to Central Europe — although not directly from Finnair, but Finnair's trips have been transmitted through a certain travel agency — and in August I was supposed to travel but this interest rate has cancelled the opportunity from Central Europe, and now the customer is waiting to get his money back. This event has been cancelled because of the interest rate, and now that this bill is being browsed, it really is that if you go bankrupt, but as far as I know, this travel agent is not bankrupt, and it has also come to the notice that it will be at least eight weeks before you can answer for the refund of that money. Which means there's a lot of lines out there. Then, in private, I can give the minister the name of who is involved. But most of all, it would be possible to get the money back from there, because it has not in any way caused it to be cancelled, and in vain it is now flying there and then polluting that air, if there is nothing to do in the country of destination. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u153	Mr President! This proposal makes sense on these grounds, which is what we have heard from the Chamber, that if the tour operator goes bankrupt, then these measures will be met by what the government is proposing here. I listened carefully to Mr Kauma’s speech, and he said — I think the same comment came from the Finns of Peru — that the starting point should be that there should be no bankruptcies at all. Today, when you have listened to this stage of debatability here, which you were not able to participate in, that is to say, the stage of debatability when you listened, the view was clearly expressed on the part of the opposition that when we talked about the tourism bubbles in Lapland or about musicians — even just now Mr. Kauma talked about musicians who have protested on Parliament’s crabs — or about the difficulties at airports, the government is being accused of it. The Minister is here, and the Minister knows perfectly well that these problems, which the organisers here have, these problems the musicians have, these problems that we face in relation to tourism in Lapland are not the fault of the government — at least this is how I understand — but the fault of this corona virus. We're just trying to do what we can to get through this as well as we can. In that respect, it would be desirable for the opposition to join the team in such a way as to support the government in the efforts we are trying to take out this corona and also to maintain the backbone of our economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u154	Mr. Speaker! With this proposal, which I support, of course, because the good government only gives good proposals, there are probably two purposes: to improve the legal security of tourists, but also to create confidence that the tourism sector will now gradually start, because, just as there have been good speeches here, the tourism sector is in real difficulties and is threatening to lose its jobs for decades, both travel agencies and, then, many domestic tourism companies. Yes, Mr President, one way or another, we should now, at this stage of our hybrid strategy, get tourism going in a corona-safe way. We should be able to get tourism going in a corona safe way from Finland to certain countries where a sufficiently green or light yellow traffic light returns to Finland in the event of a corona, and then, above all, to Finland. After all, this has been a very unhappy and gloomy situation for the tourism industry, which has been caused by the corona — one of the sectors most affected by the corona — but there has been, as in the darkest clouds, that gold lining. When I've been watching social media fiides or news chains during the summer, it's on Instagram and Facebook, I would venture to say that Finns under 40 have found domestic tourism in a whole new way, and we should be able to build and raise this awakening of domestic tourism in some way. I think it's time for some popular reality show in Tornio and Kainuu in the middle of nowhere. President! I support this proposal, but I actually wanted to ask a few questions about this tourism situation in Lapland when there is a Minister for Labour there, because it is a shared, huge concern, because it must now be brought about by the corridor or by the bubble. Otherwise, at least decades of work goes back, and the unemployed are not necessarily in thousands, it is a small scale, but can go up to tens of thousands. I am now asking the Minister for Labour: what steps are being taken now to promote tourism in Lapland so that foreign winter and Christmas tourists, especially on charter planes, can now come to Lapland, and whether the government is actually taking specific measures to create this corridor or bubble, or other support measures. To travel in Lapland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u155	Mr President! I will continue with my previous speech and say to Mr Kiljune, who said that it is not the government's fault for this corona crisis and these travel restrictions: of course they are not. Of course, this is a very difficult situation in which to balance the economy and health. But I would also like to say that Finnair may be resigning, at least there are 1000 people in the negotiations, 700 people in Swissport, a land service company in Vantaa as a whole, as Mr Kiljunen knows, between 10,000 and 15,000 people who, in one way or another, are linked to this airport. Yes, I personally think it is very important that the government is very clear in its communication and politics about what is being done, so that there will also be no slump about the sudden closure of a country, or we will stay here in the Nordic countries in our own bubble and we will not be able to travel from here any more. In the government, Minister Lintilä has stated on several occasions that, when we have this 8 new cases of disease per 100,000 inhabitants in the last two weeks, it is a very strict travel restriction and in many countries it is 16, even more. I would now like the government to find a way not to stay here in the back of a bag in the north but to be a safe way to travel by testing, tracing and using new technologies, Koronavilku, and so on. Some companies have proposed, among other things, a travel certificate so that, on the basis of certain criteria, they could commit themselves to these tests and to a certain course of action when travelling abroad. There must be some way of doing this, so that we do not have such a big industry going bankrupt. It is much more than just tourism in Lapland: a very important industry for Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u156	Mr President! Congressman Kiljunen was hoping to support the government. I would like to ask what else the opposition did all spring. We dealt with the bankruptcy law, the law on enforcement, these exceptional laws, as a matter of great urgency in the committee. We also held back very strongly on a number of critical issues and supported in an exceptional situation, so I would not quite sign up to that claim. Democracy involves a debate and, of course, we must bring different options here. It cannot be that all wisdom dwells in your government. Of course, this cannot be the case. As far as solutions are concerned, I would have liked, for example, to have thought more closely about foreign travel and how to start it. For example, the director of the Central Uusimaa Joint Municipal Authority always sends our best to us Good for the city council. He said a few weeks ago that 90% of the new cases in Central Uusimaa are imported goods. So if we had been a little more patient with this matter or if we had demanded in advance proof that there was no corona, such things might have been good things — no absolute certainty can be obtained. Of course, this goes a little bit to the Justice Minister’s property — he arrived here — when there was talk of labour law and bankruptcy. I do not know whether the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Labour can answer, but I would have asked here whether there is any plan to extend the bankruptcy law or the law on enforcement. Of course, there is always the fact that there is also a creditor’s interest, which means that the creditor can also be a company with a challenging situation. In many cases, the solution is also to change the law on legal aid, for example, so that companies can obtain legal aid more easily from legal aid offices. This is what was said last season that one way of helping companies would be to extend their access to legal advice. It is often on the shoulders of municipalities because of various companies and other projects. Finally, I must say that even in the recent debate on the amending budget, it was pointed out that the opposition has no solutions. We have a wide range of solutions, valuation issues. For example, the Finns of Peru have been very strongly opposed to this recovery fund, and we believe that the money should have been used differently. That's one solution. Then, however, since these things are made out of one bag, if money is put elsewhere, it is off on the other. This must be understood, however, that the same money is being discussed. But if the ministers get any comments on these. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u157	Then Mr Rantanen Mari and then Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u158	Mr President! I would still have caught up with this matter of travel, which has already been asked by other representatives. The main question I would have asked was whether the government had explained how this tourism has been opened in other countries, when it seems that hardly a European decision — perhaps even a European one — is generally focused only on the distribution of money, but there would have been such a place to cooperate — is being made and, for example, Greece has used an electronic form such as this, which every passenger before arriving in the country fills out and on the basis of which they make a risk assessment of each country on the basis of disease cases and each passenger receives their own personal QR code, which is then scanned at the airport at that point, if you have to take a sample which is therefore a rapid flow through the testing operation, or whether there are any other solutions of this kind coming up. And then this disease testing, which is being carried out in different countries, this example comes again from Greece, but among other things it started to demand a negative disease test from certain countries, and it did not take long for the fake test results to be carried out, which is probably something that should be taken into account when it comes to tourism. But I would like to ask if there are any solutions of this kind coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u159	Mr President! In this respect, many speeches and questions were rightly, of course, in view of this situation, related to safe travel, testing and travel restrictions. Tomorrow, in the negotiations, the government will discuss this whole. It has identified the practices and has also taken into account the EU's reflections and the Commission's preparations. It is, of course, a question of how we can now ensure that we can safely travel and also prevent the virus pandemic from moving forward here, but at the same time create the conditions for the tourism industry to act as best as possible under these circumstances in order to avoid unemployment in this sector, which is a very clear threat if travel stops. With regard to this actual proposal, there was concern here as to whether this resource would suffice. It is estimated that the amending budget would amount to EUR 2 million for this year, and then an increase of EUR 3 million will be foreseen next year and then EUR 2022 as well. This proposal, therefore, now strengthens consumer protection and equals consumers, regardless of the reason why the journey has been cancelled, is to receive this compensation back, and indirectly, of course, it is also a good thing for the tour operator, because the consumer now dares to introduce this travel voucher, which has not been dared to take place in this situation. In other words, this now seeks to ensure that consumers are equal, and with this fixed-term legislation this will be ensured. Then, with regard to these subsidies, which have been prepared and implemented on the part of Minister Lintilä, this cost support has been available to all entrepreneurs and businesses. In other words, it does not specifically target individual sectors; it is a form of aid available to all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u160	Minister Henriksson, is there anything about this reform of bankruptcy law?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u161	Mr President! At the Ministry of Justice, we are currently working on an evaluation of whether or not we will continue to do so, so we will be able to return to it. There is a proposal on the agenda today that general meetings, for example, can be kept at a distance until the end of June next year. But let us return to what is being done with regard to bankruptcy law and these others, which are now in force until the end of October. That evaluation work is going on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u162	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u163	Mr President, värderade talman! Democracy, the rule of law and fundamental and human rights together form a foundation of values on which the Finnish social order is built. Finnish democracy relies on the rule of law, where the Constitution gives strong protection to the dignity and integrity of every individual and to other fundamental rights. The rule of law, a functioning democracy and mutual trust are gaining even greater weight now that we are living in exceptional circumstances in the midst of a corona virus pandemic. We are now dealing with an amendment to section 3 of the Party Act, which would allow for the electronic collection of support declarations required for the registration of a party in an online service maintained by the Ministry of Justice. In the future, an application to register an association in the party register could be made on that online service. The possibility of submitting an application and collecting declarations of support on paper would remain. According to the Constitution, it is the task of the public authorities to promote the individual’s ability to participate in social activities and to influence his/her decision-making. Political parties are a central part of the democratic decision-making system. From the point of view of equality, it is important that new political movements also have the opportunity to become registered parties if they so wish.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u164	Mr President! It's nice to be able to compliment the government once in a while. It is up to us as parliamentarians to be the guardians and promoters of democracy here in Parliament. In many other countries, politicians are doing everything in their power to take the living space away from new competitors and parties, but it is our job to go in exactly the opposite direction. If a politician and a party believe in their own cause, they need not fear new competitors. An undemocratic old-fashioned damper is opposed to opening up opportunities to new ideas and movements. Mr President! In Finland, it has long been an obstacle to the creation of a new party that, at the meeting of a new group, they are aware that they are faced with the collection of 5000 paper support cards in order to register the party. It's a tough job for any group of people. In the future, in the proposal for a amendment to the party law under discussion, signatures could be collected directly electronically and as conveniently as when citizens’ initiatives were signed. Today, politics is undergoing major change precisely because many of the new things that come before us are not going to fit into the agenda of traditional parties. Citizens too often want to be involved in the process of passing through smaller and smaller dossiers. Something about the rigidity of Finnish politics is that the most recent party that has been admitted to the register in the elections and is still in the register is the Finns Party RP., and it was registered in 1995, that is 25 years ago. The amendment of the Party Act will not only help to establish new parties, but will also help those people who work in the present parties and feel that the party has abandoned its own line of action by the end of its power. This amendment to the party law can therefore have a very large positive impact on Finnish democracy. For example, for us Finns, this change in party law would have been good to be in the back pocket in 2017. If The Soin Jamotolppa gang would have been elected at the party assembly and the anti-Finnish government would have continued under the name of the Finnish Basics, we could have easily collected 5000 signatures electronically and continued as a party with Mr Halla-aho. Fortunately, however, Soin’s friends were voted out of basic Finnish power. On the other hand, this situation may soon take place in the city centre. How, then, could a new party, under the leadership of President Annika Saariko, be set up after the amendment of the party law, if the current red - green heading is no longer pleasing? For the collection of electronic signatures, party law requires the establishment of an association, and an agent authorised by the association would sign up for the service using strong electronic authentication. Then the service will be delivered
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u165	Mr President! The bill is indeed to be welcomed. I myself am not going to set up a new party and I am not going to offer good ideas here either, but it is important that it is made easier, it is part of a functioning democracy. And it is important at all that digitalisation has provided opportunities for strengthening democracy and participation. Let's take advantage of them, and they'll come in handy. At the same time, of course, attention must be paid to monitoring and responding to the various risks and threats posed by digitalisation. It is good that the party will soon be able to collect electronically, but, on the other hand, it is good that elections, for example, must not continue to be voted electronically. Digitalisation is a huge force to strengthen good things and good development and good developments in society. On the other hand, it also offers a wide range of ways to destabilise democracy, divide societies, destroy security. Digitalization is not only technology, it is also technology, but it is a force that is really shaping everything around us in our society, starting with the economy, working life and just how our institutions work. This is an important but small bill, but perhaps I wanted to bring up the idea at all that we should look at whether our governance structure is well prepared to deal with digitalisation and the development of the information society in all its dimensions, in terms of how the Government has traditionally organised itself, how this house deals with those issues, how our responsibilities are shared. There is no direct criticism or better proposal, but it is clear that our society has been built up and different structures have been created in such a time when such a clear new technological power was not yet at work. But, in any case, it is very good that this law is coming, it helps many in the work of grassroots democracy. Perhaps I would have asked again that it is indeed important that it should come into force as soon as possible, apparently now, at the latest, at the turn of the year, but... Well, actually, the Minister has already been through this, there is no further need to ask. But it's great to have this law passed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u166	Mr President! In an earlier debate one might say that our ranks have also tried to establish these parties, and in this small relief that success has not been terribly good, so that I cannot recommend, although here some representatives of this kind did. But if we go a little more seriously into this motion, then this is certainly a good bill for democracy and democracy, for the benefit of digitalisation, and this digitality will spread to us in the political world. When we South Ostrobothnians have a bad habit of boasting our ideologies — the truth can be said and praise itself if there is any cause — it is just this weekend that we downtowns certainly held the largest distance conference in Finland and, I say, one of the world’s largest distance meetings, with a maximum of 2,400 delegates from different locations participating in the regular party meeting with digital connections. I was there at the actual meeting place in Oulu, and we said there that if you hadn't looked on the stage, if you hadn't looked at whether there was a human being or not, on the screen, on the screen, on the screen, on the screen, on the screen, you wouldn't have been able to determine whether the speaker was there in Oulu or whether he was there, say, in Kerava or Seinäjoki. This is how this digitality works, and that's good. But, Mr President, perhaps this is where the party law is open and dealt with, to say that we have a lot to do. Of course, we present parties hope that there will not be too many new parties, [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: That is not true!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u169	Mr President! This is going to be tips for a conversation. It's nice to be involved. The undersigned is a strong supporter of democracy and a friend of the parties, including my own. Party and association activities have always been very close to the heart. On the other hand, it is terribly nice to hear such a young talk, but perhaps this history has also brought me a slightly different perspective on these matters. We live in quite a culture of thumbs-up. It is awfully easy to pry all kinds of things through the Internet, but when you have to participate in something concrete, the threshold for participation is quite high. However, when considering this legislation further, a little thought should be given to this number. I understand the idea that if two systems are to be paralleled, it is quite difficult to increase the number of paper cards. But now we have a situation where it is more difficult to move the citizens' initiative — that is to say, one thing — than to set up a party. How many one-off parties will come, and is that a good thing or a bad thing? There are already many views on this in our group. This whole thing may be a little fragmented, but on the other hand, it may well be that that is what this world is going to do. But as has already been said, it is not easy to remain a party. Maybe it's easy to start a party, but it's harder to stay a party. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister how this whole package has been considered, after these support cards have been collected, because the previous ones were destroyed after a year and there was no register. And now, however, when we talk about something that supports or supports the emergence of a political movement, how sensitive is this information and how will this register that emerges from it be dealt with in the future? And for Mr Kurvise on these parties: now we have to take up this issue, whether it is money or the cause that moves forward. In our party, it has been the cause that has taken away. Even a little money has been built up, so that money hasn't been the thing. In other words, this party support and other things can be discussed for me for, say, three days, that's fine. But party law could be slightly updated for this millennium at all. There are a lot of new features and digitalisation that could be used, but of course with common sense. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u170	Mr President! Now I have to say to Mr Kurvise, Chairman of the Central Parliamentary Group, that when you spoke about, for example, the reduction of special assistants, it became quite a feeling that you do not remember that you are the chairman of the Centre, the Government Party, the Parliamentary Group and you can of course contribute to the reduction in the number of special assistants, and this has been in the alternative budget of the Finns of Finland, for example. I don't remember you being in favour of it. [AnttiCall] In fact, we in our programmes have called for a reduction in party support, and this has been done, and we are quite satisfied with it. As our former party secretary and current Member of Parliament, Mr Slunga-Poutsalo, said, we have been able to do this without huge money. It's because you sing her songs, whose bread you eat. Especially when [AnttiCall]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u171	Värderade Talman! Vi kanske går tillbaka till sak ox i det bull skedet. — Det rai lagförslaget är uppskattat och ett bra tecken på att regeringen går igenom lagar och uppdaterar dem vid behov så att de uppfyller syftet även på 2020-talet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u172	Mr President! This government proposal that the declarations of support can also be collected electronically for the party is justified and reasonable. We've heard those arguments here. However, I gave a presentation to the Minister, particularly on the point where he said that it would also be possible to fill out the papers in the future. This is valuable because these digitists, which are almost hypely encouraged and done too many times in this Chamber, forget that we have over 300,000 people over 65 years of age who do not have a computer at all. We cannot exclude this group of people from the normal activities of this society, and that is why it is very important that the government also see to it that this paperwork is possible, including for those who have these devices and who want to do this type of thing on paper anyway. I found Mr Kurvise's speech rewarding. I do not know whether it was a leap in the direction of the Finns, as some here interpreted it this way, but the essence of what he said was, of course, that he appreciated the party system, the party system as the core of political democracy. This public debate, which is taking place in the kingdom, has created the feeling that the parties are rather in a position to be put on, is the beginning of all evil and the root of what the Finns are calling for as a populist movement, i.e. party funding, is a form of party support that is, as it were, in the minds of the public, something to which money goes as if to go into Kankkula well. That was the logic that Mr Kurvin was building in his own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u175	The timetable for this is about to be full, but Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u176	Mr President! Mr Kurvinen said here that we old parties do not wish to see new parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u179	Mr President! It is great that we have a proposal that is supported by both the opposition and the government, and thank you also to the opposition for this. A few comments on these questions and a few leaps back to history. Following the entry into force of the Party Act, a total of 37 parties, of which five parties have been registered twice, two parties three times, and two parties four times, have been collected on the basis of an application. During the last ten years a party has been registered 14 times, and there are currently 18 parties in the party register. As you know, the removal of the party from the party register is also provided for in this law, and if the party does not receive any MPs or at least 2% support in two consecutive parliamentary elections, the Ministry of Justice will remove it from the party register. So this is the current state. That there have been attempts to establish these parties, but it has been difficult to get here. I personally believe that this is a very welcome reform, and I believe that it is also fair, because it is now able to participate in the establishment of a party both electronically and on paper. That is important, as Mr Kiljunen has also said. Mr Slunga-Poutsalo asked about these declarations, who is responsible for them. The Ministry of Justice will forward these statements of support to the Digi and Population Information Office, which will verify their accuracy. The registered association and the Ministry of Justice are controllers in respect of the personal data contained in the statements of support held by them. This information is public when the association is registered as a party and is destroyed one year after the decision to register the Ministry. This has also been stated in this section. Then this is where Mr Meri asked about the issue of election funding. That is where we have a group of party secretaries who are considering the issue of electoral funding and will be able to return to it once that group has completed its work. So, all in all, this proposal will improve democracy, and it is the task of all of us parties and those active in the parties to involve people in the activities in which we are building.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u180	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Economic Affairs, to which the Committee on Legal Affairs must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u181	Mr President, värderade talman! Last spring's events had an exceptional impact on the business field. Traditionally, many meetings take different forms in spring, but during the corona crisis physical contact and gatherings were recommended to avoid. In order to improve the operating conditions of companies, Parliament adopted a temporary law on the transfer of meetings of companies, cooperatives and associations and on the facilitation of remote participation and the use of an agent. Temporary law will be in force until the end of September of this year. Based on the feedback, the law has worked well and met the needs of these operators. This is a great thing. However, we have not yet completely eliminated the corona virus. Therefore, the Government considers that it is still necessary to allow meetings to be organised in such a way as to reflect health protection requirements and the rights of the Community and its shareholders and members in an appropriate manner. This is necessary to ensure the security of meeting arrangements.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u182	Värderade Talman! The temporary law that came into force last spring has been well received in the field. Many companies and associations have already been able to organise safe hybrid meetings, and it is very welcome that this practice will be followed up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u183	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has already started working on this issue at a distance meeting today. We will take this forward quickly and give an opinion to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. We're talking about this section of the Association Act. This is a good follow-up and this is an easy one, not an easy one, but in such a way a clear whole, that the use of this delegate and the use of an agent will continue so that the Board of Directors can, by decision, do so and decide even if it does not exist in the association's rules. Then there is this remote opportunity for a meeting. However, it is not obligatory, but a physical meeting must also be arranged if a person wants to attend a meeting on the spot. The Minister could tell you how to do it in the future. Now that we have moved on to these — also mentioned in the previous paragraph about these digitalisation — is there something new in the way that such things become permanent opportunities? At least I've loved it a lot myself. I have been to various meetings in the city and also to committee at remote meetings, and I really like them. Sometimes, of course, the Teams are a little poked up, but this has made it easier to spend time and to get people involved. What can we expect in the future on the side of company and association law? — That is all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u184	Mr President! It is good that the Committee on Legal Affairs has already started to deal with this proposal today. That's a good question. How will it be in the future? The way I see it is that, in the midst of this whole corona crisis, positive things have also emerged, and one thing is that Finnish society has shown its strength: we have been able to move to remote education in schools, we have been able to do just that, we have been able to hold general meetings digitally, we have moved to work on remote connections and so away. We must learn lessons from this, and I think that, when we create paths for the future, it will certainly also be that, once we have had enough experience of this, it could also lead to lasting changes in our current practices, and in particular to enable people to participate not only personally on the ground but also through remote connections. I think it is quite possible, and that is what we need to think about. It is good that we are now, of course, going through these steps first and assessing what has worked well, whether there have been problems and where there have been problems and then we will look. Surely it is worth learning from this and also developing our future legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u185	Mr President! I pressed the button to respond to Mr Mere's speech and listened carefully to what the Minister said about these experiences or the idea that we should learn from these digital practices and distance work and its importance. Personally, I would not like to use the heretic speech at this point, but the word of warning is very clear, because I do have the impression that when we talk about international meetings in particular, but much is also used at domestic meetings, then the insight that is the real decision-making place in these meetings will be lost. However, the decision-making situation would not be the hall where the public debate takes place, but the most essential aspect is what happens in the corridors before the meeting, preparation for it, communication between people, physical interaction and the related discussion and encounter and reconciliation and the search for consensus. To be prepared only for remote participation: These are the technical problems which, of course, will have to be considered as to whether the equipment is working properly. It's about whether or not we should focus on them properly. It is a problem all the time, too, whether they are at the end of reliable connections in such a way that no outsiders follow, that is a closed opportunity. Above all, the importance of teleconferences always means, almost by definition, centralising power. It concentrates power on those who prepare that meeting and those who run that meeting. It is a very clear basic phenomenon, which is what comes in them. In other words, if we are defending democracy, I would warn you that at least we would not idealise this remote operation. That is what I understand, where it is very important with these remote connections, that, for example, you can invite foreign lecturers to a common space, that you do not have to send from America or China or Japan or from anywhere far away or in Finland to go to Pihtiputa to lecture, but you can talk about it remotely and hear its communication there and the questions there. It certainly makes sense, it makes sense, but I would like to leave a warning saying that the work of the meetings will be carried out in a systematic and determined manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u186	Secretary Henrikson, one more minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u187	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen raised some very important points. In my opinion, when it comes to company general meetings, general meetings of housing companies and meetings of associations, I see opportunities here. Then I think there is a difference between democratic decision-making. I agree that it is an extremely important debate itself, the fact that we are in the same forum. But if, for example, there is a town council meeting, then if there is a situation that people can't get there for some reason, then maybe you could vote at a distance, or on things like this. But I would say that it is good to keep political decision-making separately and then the participation made possible by the annual meetings of companies and associations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u188	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-08-ps-108.u189	Mr President! I'm actually taking advantage of the opportunity when the Attorney General is here. There is a point in this proposal that the Administrative Committee has stated that ‘the expert consultation has also suggested that the amendment of Article 12a of the Administrative Law should be considered in order to allow these cases to be dealt with in the administrative courts as Has the Minister had time to look into this? We have had this thing to get to grips with, there were good points here, and we would have a consistent approach to trying to reduce our congested administrative rights. The experts here had suggested that these issues could be dealt with in the composition of two Members, already because these are probably also these immigration issues, which have been raised by the courts in consultation with the Legal Committee at the moment, and that more than half of them go to these foreign affairs. And of course it is always the case that a lighter configuration is taken when possible. These would be things from which, for example, the representatives of the government, who unfortunately do not have... Well, Kimmo Kiljunen is — he always likes to talk to me — and he could raise this issue that when we have talked about these congested administrative rights, there is one thing, for example. The Legal Committee had not been consulted on this matter at the time. This was urgent, which I regret, but perhaps it would not have been possible to obtain this text without the government's involvement. But there's all kinds of pearls here when you can read them. — The Minister has already left, so thank you very much.
