ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u2	Mr Vallin will begin the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u3	Madam President! The government is introducing a very strict regulation of the acceleration of the corona epidemic for restaurant businesses. Although measures are needed to deal with the corona crisis, this regulation will in practice lead to a wave of bankruptcy and mass unemployment in the restaurant sector. MaRa ry has repeatedly asked the government and health authorities for figures on the number of exposures and corona infections to corona virus in food restaurants, cafés, transport station restaurants and breakfast restaurants at accommodation establishments. Good government! What facts do you base your decision on? I am asking the same question as MaRa: how many exposures and confirmed coronavirus infections have occurred in food restaurants, cafes, transport stations restaurants and restaurants at accommodation establishments during the autumn?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u4	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u5	Mr President! I don't think there's a single Finn whose daily life the corona virus hasn't affected since last spring. And it is quite clear that, as you have described, the government shares the concern about the situation in the restaurant sector, but also in other service sectors affected by the interest rate. Our concerns also relate to the Finnish export industry. Your question was whether the government had any grounds to support its decision to limit the opening hours of restaurants. Yes, the starting point is the fact that in Finland, as well as in the world, exposure chains and direct infections have been traced specifically to restaurants. Their behavior and form of association are such that the spread of the corona virus is more susceptible there than in some other areas. Now, however, I would like to point out that, in terms of restrictions on restaurants, the core point has also been to lead Finland regionally, i.e. to make decisions that limit the opening hours more widely, especially where the disease situation is worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u6	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u7	Madam President! In addition to forgetting about restaurant entrepreneurs and employees, the government also seems to have forgotten about the transport sector and other night workers. Every night, thousands of transport professionals drive the roads of our country, keeping the wheels of our economy rolling and transporting goods to shops. These professionals need their legal breaks, and for them, the opening hours of traffic stations are extremely important for them to have food and to have access to the washrooms. True Finns understand the need to prevent infections, but closing traffic stations is not a key means of combating them. Mr President, what is your message to the transport workers? Why are you forgetting them the second time and closing their break? Are you prepared to change the bill so that traffic stations can be kept open 24 hours a day?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u8	Mr President! The Government's line is that there are three of our most important tasks at the moment: the first is the fight against the interest rate for the benefit of all Finns. The second is the safeguarding of the Finnish economy and Finnish jobs. And the third point is that, in the midst of this prolonged and extraordinary time, all Finns would stay with us. We do not consciously or deliberately want to make decisions that ruin the everyday lives of companies or other Finns. We are concerned, just as you are, for example, with the transport companies you have mentioned, but just as in other countries of the world, Finland has considered that decisions and decisions need to be taken to protect life and health that change normal everyday life, and only because we know that this can prevent the spread of the disease. As far as restaurant activities are concerned: This proposal has now been before Parliament and, according to my information, for today in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u9	There are a number of questions in the various groups on this same subject, so I will give you other contributions. — Mr Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u10	Mr President! It has now been said, as has been seen in recent days, that this masquerade has been very challenging. When the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also criticised restaurant activities and nobody really knows what is going on here, I ask you, Minister Henriksson: how do you intend to ensure that there will be no political officials in the future? This decision-making process is currently confused. I am going to ask you this orally, not in writing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u11	Mr President! In Finland, we have senior supervisors who monitor that ministries and other authorities act in accordance with the law: they are the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman. The Minister of Justice does not have such powers, but the Minister of Justice is responsible, as every minister, for preparing his own administrative area, and I trust that we have the highest judicial authorities to carry out their own duties. I'm sure there's a reason to keep the oatmeals and the vellets apart now. Then there is the matter of the mask itself: it is the ministers responsible for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u12	Mr President! I would also like to say that, of course, the question is always justified, as the opposition sees it, but I hope that together we can maintain the right image of Finland and Finnish decision-making. At least I do not wish to question the understanding of any decision-makers that everyone knows their place in this system: the political decision-maker, this Chamber, which is ultimately responsible for Finnish legislation and the use of common funds, the judiciary, that is, the one who takes decisions on the basis of our legislation, but also the expert and expert body, which is independent. I have not noticed, for example, the speeches on this question of masks, where political pressure, for example, has been accused. I therefore hope that in this respect we can refrain from this serious issue in arguments that we know are true. This is also because, while the crisis is still in progress, I personally have a deep concern that in the eyes of the citizens,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u13	Madam President! In line with the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs last spring, interest-rate restrictions should be based on necessity, proportionality and effectiveness. However, when we have asked for information on the levels of infection and exposure in different types of restaurants as the basis for decision-making, it has become clear that this information does not exist. Do you, Mr Government, even want to impose effective restrictions and minimise the harm to businesses, their employees and customers? Will you take account of the opinion of the Constitutional Committee and take effective specific measures, which have been subject to impact assessments, both in terms of infection and the impact on employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u14	Mr President! We will certainly take into account the position of the Constitutional Committee. [Department: When? ] This reading, which now relates to restaurant restrictions, is in the hands of Parliament and, of course, there is a pressing need for this temporary legislation on this basis to be brought to an end and for this House to have a new political vision of how we want to continue to impose restrictions on restaurants. On behalf of the government, I promise that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which this task will now be transferred, will have all the support it needs to give to the prompt and proportionate and timely decision-making that is related to restaurant activities. I would like to emphasise that we are always trying to be a few steps ahead of this wretched disease in relation to these restrictive measures. It is too late and pointless to discuss all of these if Finland as a whole is at the stage of spreading the disease.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u17	Mr President! For the last six months, the House has called for health and the economy to be coordinated in the fight against the virus and to minimise the damage to business and employment. Well, today the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that there has been a partial and now re-table bill in this country that does not pass the Constitution in so far as there is no regional assessment of necessity. Now there was a problem with the bill. A regional necessity assessment must be carried out in the future and also by type of restaurant, i.e. the gas station is separated from the nightclub.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u20	Mr President! We have actually received the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs today, and I have also made it available to me, and the regulation currently in force at the time has been laid down with the help of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It is now a question of possible restrictive measures in the course of the autumn, late autumn, of restaurant activities, which will be limited in the way in which the new legislation enters into force, and in this respect the regulation has been under review here in Parliament, and, as usual, the Constitutional Committee will again assess the future regulation of restaurants on the basis of which it will be made. This was also the case in the past, which was why the government also corrected the issues to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs drew attention. We will therefore be familiar with the observations of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in great haste. We will correct these shortcomings, which have been shown in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and this work, under the chairmanship of the committee, will be done from here in Parliament so that the Ministry will do everything in its power to help the committee on matters which it wishes to do. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u21	Madam President! The disease is serious, but the economic depression is going to be really bad. There are about 10,000 restaurants in Finland and 140,000 restaurant workers, and there will certainly be bankruptcies. This régionalisation is very important, but how are you really going to report this? It is important to take account of regionalisation, but how is it clearly communicated so that it is clear in the regions, people know how to proceed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u22	Mr President! The question is very important precisely because the government has chosen the line that Finland as a whole will not be put in the sack, even though the disease situation is getting worse and the second wave is at hand. The path has been chosen, now that we know more about the corona and know of its effects, that it is being combated regionally. And yes, then the communication challenge will be considerably greater than last spring. There are areas now where the disease is still in the custodial phase — good hygiene and safety intervals must be observed, but there is still no great concern. And then there are areas where the corona is practically at the point of spread. These are now subject to various restrictions, and I promise, with reference to the good question of the representative, to send a message to this entire group within the government about improving communication. That's exactly what I was thinking.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u25	Mr President, värderade talman! Regeringen har i dag gett reconstructioner för att begränsa spridningen av coronaviruses. Vi har under de senaste veckorna sett exempel på regionala åtgärder på flera håll i Finland. De har variant nödvändiga och bra. Det som nu är viktigt är att alla regionaler tar ansvar för åtgärderna och kommunikationen utåt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u26	Mr President! Under the current Act on communicable diseases, those responsible will of course be found in the field in this normal situation. In this respect, the situation is different from that of the spring when the Government conducted these interest rate measures on the basis of a package of preparedness laws adopted by Parliament. In this respect, this means that communication is also very diverse, because the regions are experiencing a different phase of epidemic: some of them are at a basic level — i.e., in practice there are still quite few cases — and we already have that part of the Hospital District of Vaasa in the process of spreading. This is why information from regional authorities is also different in different regions. We have already drawn attention to this in the long run, and the THL, which acts as regional coordinator and support for the field, has drawn attention to the fact that this communication efficiency is:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u27	Mr President! This debate also raises in my mind the question of what the government's motives are, when the Constitutional Committee is now delivering this message, of the need to distinguish territorially between restrictive measures and the types of restaurants. Well, it is being taken seriously, but this same message has been brought in for a long time, and certainly in your preparation the PAM trade union and the MaRa restaurants have brought that message, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy too — my own party even took it to heart in order to take it seriously. That is why it is so strange that there will now be a crack at the government and the representatives of the government front will not get any momentum until it comes to the Constitution. Is that where you pick it up?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u28	Mr President! Mr Vartiainen, in politics, we can make a firm turn of things, but I am always a stranger to questioning motives. Yes, this government’s motive is to protect the health and life of Finns — and yes, this government’s great motive is to take care of Finland’s economy, jobs and businesses. I have not asked for the reasons why the opposition has been consulted, that bars should be open all night — that, in all respects, even the opposition has not been united and clear about the restaurant policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u31	Mr President! In the spring, when these corona restrictions were imposed on restaurants, there was feedback from restaurant entrepreneurs that these restrictions were not balanced. At a time when the restaurant was at most able to pick up pick-up food, there were hundreds of people in line across the street without any masks, which the government and these so-called independent experts felt were not needed — contrary to what is needed today. Now these same mistakes are apparently being repeated. Mr President! The government was just asked facts, facts, details. We received a public speech that did not in any way answer these questions. I would ask the government again: what are the facts behind these restaurant restrictions, the general restrictions on restaurants? How many infections, how many deaths have you calculated to save with these restrictions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u32	Mr President! I think it is right, and in fact it is up to you to ask for the basis of the Government's decision, [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u35	Madam President, a good government! Perhaps the problem here is that the information line and the information on what this coronavirus actually is is contradictory. It is very difficult to tell the people that be careful and watch out for this virus and it is dangerous if, at the same time, THL, for example, reports in September that this virus is not as dangerous as it is estimated. It is a bit like saying to a person that tobacco is not as dangerous as it is estimated but it is good to stop smoking. That's very contradictory information. And it is a good thing that we are having a debate about it and we are also aware of the risk of possible contamination in the restaurant. After all, it is in the hands of all of us, both those visiting the restaurant and the workers, that the infections do not increase. This is certainly also the case with gas stations. In the opinion of the Finns Party, gas stations should be open, not restricted, as there is a lot of work-site traffic at night.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u36	Mr President! I hope that Finns will be encouraged to go to the restaurant to eat and spend time while doing it in accordance with its regulations in a health-safe way, and I trust Finns and even more I trust restaurant entrepreneurs who manage this situation responsibly. As for the nature of the corona virus you mentioned, oh, if we knew that. All of this would be much, much easier if one of us could tell the facts for sure as to what kind of disease is involved. I will now answer this question as Minister of Science. The basic nature of science is that its nature changes, we get new knowledge all the time, the old concept is overturned. As far as this autumn and the fact that we have a reasonable number of cases now — not just in the capital region and Uusimaa as in the spring but in all of Finland — and yet the intensive care facilities, fortunately, have not yet been completed, the essence of this is that so far the infections are largely confined to young and young adults. Half of those infected are young adults,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u37	Let me remind you again of this minute. — And Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u38	Mr President! There is always a debate about whether the corona is, however, a general-risk disease, and I would like to say to Parliament that, as has already been said here, we must ensure that, if the international group of major experts in the health sector has come to the conclusion that the corona has been declared a general-risk disease all over the world, then we cannot think here in Finland that we would know even more and take positions here that could pose a risk in how we manage the epidemic. We are going through these international policies and we are making sure that we do everything we can to protect people's health and spirit, and we are learning more and more about this wretched disease and we are securing the international knowledge that is constantly developing, and we are also prepared to change.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u39	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u40	Madam President! The health of all of us and the rotation of the wheels of society depend on how effectively corona infections can be traced and isolated. We have heard how health nurses at clinics and schools, as well as other social welfare professionals, are being transferred to tracking tasks in a hurry. Tracking needs to be done well and quickly, but the price now has to be borne by children and the most vulnerable people in waiting lists. I am proud of how quickly we got our toolkit into use in Finland. However, effective utilisation of it requires a faster flow of codes from the laboratory to the infected person. At the moment, about a thousand trackers can supply these codes. Over 2.3 million Finns have already downloaded the Koronavilku app. I would like to ask Minister Kiuru: what measures has the government taken to ensure that the resources for tracing infections are sufficient? How to ensure that the transfer of experts to tracing work does not increase the number of treatment queues further?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u41	Mr President! Firstly, the representative is drawing attention to the very right issue at this stage. It may be that the big threat over the next few weeks is that we are still less able to trace these infections and more and more people are needed to exert themselves in this demanding task because the number of infections is rising. It is precisely for this reason that we in this House should be able to support the policy of regional actors that we should be able to prevent the number of infections, so that it does not deprive resources of other important tasks in the field of social welfare and health care. We have to say, as the representative says, that we do not have any extra pair of hands in social and health care, and in that respect this is a difficult task. At the moment, everything is being done in the region so that these infections can still be traced. But when the epidemic gets worse, the likelihood of these infections being traced will be reduced,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u42	Mr President! I believe that it is a common task for all of us to support the economy on the one hand and to protect the health and life of Finns on the other. That is why I am concerned that, in this fight against the interest rate, we are talking a lot about details. I could use an overall view and the protection of the weakest of all individuals. There was a reference to young people here earlier. I wonder why the debate is completely reflected in the fact that a fairly large proportion of the daily infections are in children and adolescents, between 10 and 20 years of age. It is estimated that in Uusimaa the rate of growth is such that in their age group, infections increase by 38 times per month. It's a huge amount. Why has it not been made public that exposure in schools has also led to further infections? There the children sit in a small space inside for long periods, but have not been told,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u43	Mr President! I think it is good that this too should be dealt with right now. It is true that we have a lot of exposure among children and young people, but it should not be confused with the fact that we still have infections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u46	Mr President! Just as Minister Kiuru has said here, there must be a distinction between exposure and infection. As mentioned here, of course, when we talk about institutions and schools, the number of people exposed is easily increased in individual cases where either an adult or a child is infected with a single corona. But according to current data, further infections in educational institutions or schools are very rare. Yesterday we received, among other things, the data compiled by the THL, according to which there would have been only eight follow-up infections in the autumn for the whole of secondary education. In this regard, we consider it important that the starting point for children and young people to be able to continue as far as possible in close-up education is important in this situation. But the providers of education also have the legal tools they need if it is to be seen as necessary either to move to a partial distance education or to a rotation system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u48	Madam President! Tomorrow at 9 a.m. in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we will be discussing this point of the Act on communicable diseases, where we will regulate the activities of restaurants. The other night, Mr Savio made a good speech here, saying that exponential growth is currently on the way to us in terms of the number of infections. If we look at this common measure, the 14 - day incidence, it has doubled every ten days, the last figure is now approaching 3,000. At present, this affects the use of restaurants more than any restriction. People's fear affects them. We must make this stop, then people will dare to use various services. Three weeks ago, there were fewer than ten infections in Vaasa, currently over 30,000,000 per capita. Now my question is: with what indicators and foresight instruments has the government thought that the risk can be assessed in advance in the regions and not simply react to the already exploding infected areas by means of various restrictions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u49	Mr President! In the summer, we prepared an action programme on the basis of which, as soon as the decision was taken in principle, these preventive measures have been launched in the regions. It is therefore intended to pre-empt, pre-manage this epidemic so that it does not become bad, but at the same time to deal with the situation if these clusters occur. The idea is to crush all these clusters. The idea is that we have a three-step approach. First, we try to stay at the basic level as long as it is possible, but if the region is moving towards an acceleration phase, we should do as much in advance as possible. The measures are the same for all regional authorities here on the CDD side: in anticipation and pre-emptive in accordance with the law. And when these are made, it is important never to enter that stage of dispersal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u50	Madam President! It is important that the message that we want to support Finnish entrepreneurs, Finnish restaurant entrepreneurs and value the work that has been done there to prevent the spread of the disease. We Finns are a law - abiding people and a obedient people of instructions. One example of this is the recent polio-confirmation vaccine, which was collected by every Finn at the time it was urged. I would now like to ask: would you, once again, have a general recommendation for Finns on how to act in such a way that we can continue to live in this society as normally as possible and that the economy will also run?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u51	Mr President! For Finns, our general message is: patience and strength and tenacity to follow recommendations, it is for the common good. In particular, I have been thinking a lot about the young people who have been affected by this disease recently. They should not be blamed for it, but at the same time I say to young and young adults, with their behaviour in mind: although the disease does not seem particularly dangerous to them now — we are fortunate in it — I hope that young people will think of their parents and grandparents, for whom the disease may be different. In this regard, as far as restaurants are concerned, the government has been concerned about Finnish entrepreneurship and also about restaurant companies with significant support packages already in the course of this year, but I know that restaurant owners do not want a support package, they want customers. That is why these measures are being taken to encourage people to move. It's not all about the restrictions. It's not all about the restrictions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u52	Next question, Mr Siren.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u53	Mr President! The government has set good targets, such as raising employment and combating the shadow economy. However, last autumn the government decided to weaken the household allowance, although this is contrary to the government's own objectives. The Government's decision to cut will increase the prices of renovation and home services, for example, and thus reduce demand for them. This not only reduces employment in services but also increases the risk of an increase in the shadow economy in Finland. For these reasons, the Coalition Party has proposed an increase in the amount of the household allowance and also an extension of its access to the euro. I ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen: why did the government cut the household allowance, even though this decision runs counter to the government's own objectives?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u54	Mr President! Even in the government program, it was decided that the small operation that was performed would be performed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u55	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u56	Mr President! This home-economy reduction is also accompanied by a gender perspective. Studies show that housework continues to accumulate more for women. Especially at this time of interest rate, for example, it will be a great relief for many families if they can buy services that make their daily lives easier, and the household allowance will allow this for more. Finland has an exceptionally high tax rate, so middle-income earners are also not able to make their daily life easier without a household allowance. At the same time, e.g. cleaning and nursing entrepreneurs, nannies and, for example, yard workers are left out of work. In other words, a reduction in household income can not only bring relief to family life, for example, but also create new jobs in Finland, which we desperately need. So I ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhane:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u57	Mr President! As I said, let us first explain what those effects would be, assess its cost-effectiveness and what it really is. At present, the household allowance is such that a large proportion of Finns do not take advantage of its potential. As far as the provision of services is concerned, I understand that a relatively small proportion of the users of the household allowance are:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u60	Mr President! However, Mr Vanhanen, would it not be time to re-assess all of this insidious attitude of yours towards this reduction in the household? Just as an example: circumstances have changed since the government negotiations have taken place, and when we have just talked about these restaurant workers, could we not extend the household allowance, for example, to home-retrievable food? This would certainly be a useful and employment-enhancing measure for all Finns, which would increase the use of services. Now you're going to tell these restaurants that a lot of restaurants are going to close. Restaurants are in a lot of trouble. In this way, food business could now be promoted and restaurants kept alive. A very large number of restaurant entrepreneurs will soon be in the bread line as a result of your decisions. Would it not be time for us to reach out in this way and show warmth and sympathy for the restaurant industry?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u61	Mr President! Your suggestion that this kind of food brought home — these services we have quite a lot of exist — should be included in this kind of household allowance: I'm not sure I would support it. The fact that such individual 12 euro pizza doses would be imported and made subject to a tax deduction, yes, there must be an activity that is a normal part of our economy without being held by such separate tax carrots. If we go to this level, then the fact that the household deduction, when it is made in the form of a reduction from the state tax, will only benefit those who pay the State tax. We have a lot of low-income people who would not be able to make practical use of this support from society. Should the aid then be paid to them to be able to provide the same kind of aid?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u62	Madam President! I encourage the government to cancel the cut in the household allowance that took thousands of people's jobs. The household allowance is used by about 40 per cent of pensioners, and all pension unions, including left-wing pension unions, have called for that cut to be cancelled and an increased household allowance. The Coalition Party has also proposed an increase in the household allowance and a super-household deduction for senior citizens, which would be a combination of direct support and tax relief for low-income earners, so that all pensioners over 75 years of age would benefit from this super-household allowance for senior citizens and would also support living at home. My question is: will the government include a proposal for an increase in the household allowance on its list, and could you also consider the motion for a vote to extend that reduction to the security phone of senior citizens living at home? And I'm going to ask you again: why is it that people are good, who bring work and better services?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u63	Mr President! Let us also remember to clarify this question of a safety phone in this context. The reduction in household income is an important part of our system, but its impact on employment — it is now also being examined in this context whether the cut that has been made would have cost thousands of jobs. When we are able to study this information, let us return to this assessment and see what the cost-benefit is. With regard to employment measures, the Government has stressed the need for cost-effective measures. We are not, as it were, employing taxpayers’ money — this is the main rule — but measures must be cost-effective.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u64	Madam President! At the time of the introduction of the household allowance, at first this allowance was alongside those on low incomes who could not benefit from the tax deduction. However, this tax deduction model was then consolidated. Minister, you have just said that if you do not pay the State tax, you will not be able to take advantage of the reduction either. Are you prepared to correct this and create equality so that those who cannot benefit from the tax deduction will also receive this equivalent compensation? And the second question: I believe that a person who lives in housing companies is still unable to take advantage of the household allowance for renovations like a person who lives in a detached house, for example? As I recall, during the last period, the Social Democrats were driving these reforms, but now they have stopped.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u65	Mr President! There are many of these extensions, yes, I know and know them, and all of them are about where we target tax reductions. The other side of its tax deduction is that society loses tax revenue, in this case the state. In the first part of that question, whether aid should be paid to those who cannot make a reduction in state taxation: that is why we have current transfers and I think it is better to define — after all, in Parliament, they are defined — the level of income transfers, i.e. which part is then assessed as being used for employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u66	Madam President! Minister Vanhanen, there's already information. According to a recent study by Riksrevisionen in Sweden, the so-called rutavdrag, a household allowance in Finnish terms, reduces the informal economy, increases equality, transfers unemployed and undeclared workers to permanent official work. In particular, it will improve the economy and position of women. According to Riksrevisionen, the income of service buyers increased considerably in mothers of children aged 0–3 years and the service providers benefited especially low-income and low-skilled women. Why is the government hostile about the household allowance?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u69	Mr President! The current household allowance includes all the elements in which the grey economy is compromised. They exist. The cut that was made during this parliamentary term for central government economic reasons certainly did not reduce the incentivise to take care of matters formally. Even now, the condition for receiving a household allowance is that things should be handled correctly, as is right, and it has a strong incentive to do so. With a reduction in your household, you emphasize equality. I am sure there are features to which you referred, but as much as there is talk of equality, I would remind you once again: only those who pay state tax will benefit from the benefit of home-economy reduction, the rest of the population will not be able to take advantage of that system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u70	Madam President! There are many advantages to home economics reduction, the fact that it has just been mentioned here that it is transferring work that may have been carried out illegally, informally, to taxation. But when Mr Sirén raised the point that there was also a perspective of equality, it is true. Pensioners on low incomes, families with children on low incomes, are not allowed to use this household allowance. They do not pay state taxes and, on the other hand, they do not have to pay this fee first and then subsequently get it back in taxation. If we're talking about equality,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u71	Mr President! The household allowance has its basis. That's why it's fixed in time. When it is said that the government opposes this or is hostile, that is certainly not true. There are quite a few representatives in this Chamber who we have had in our time to regulate,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u76	And last question on this subject, Mr Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u77	Mr President! We have already looked at what the benefits of this household reduction could be for pensioners, but I would like to emphasise its employment benefits. I would also like to ask the Minister of Finance whether we should not now take account of this cyclical situation if we all know that construction, for example, is a key element of the household reduction, and there are already very clear indications that new production is beginning to decline, and we would certainly have better work available for construction professionals if this household reduction were to be used more widely now, at least before the economy starts to rise again. The same applies to the cleaning side to a certain extent: when you know, for example, the difficulties of restaurants and other problems, the need for cleaning elsewhere will be reduced, but instead the need and work would be in the homes. In other words, if we were to raise this household allowance up now, at least as an anti-depressant, it could contribute to employment right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u78	Mr President! I also hope that this debate in Parliament will not send a message to people who have a need for renovation, which should be done now — the renovations must be done on time — that you can now wait for the government to pay for some of this renovation. Even renovations have a responsibility to the people themselves, not to society. The renovations must be done on time, they must be paid for themselves, and then society will use the household allowance, in particular, to encourage it to be done officially and not in the dark. As I said, the government is asking for an explanation of how cost-effective this is, what the impact of extending the household allowance will be, and once this study has been carried out, then we will come back to this issue as part of employment measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u79	Next up, Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u80	Madam President! The government has come to an agreement among itself on social reform. It is, however, somewhat unclear whether we are talking about welfare areas in the future or whether we are talking about social welfare regions, but perhaps the most important concern that arose from those statements is how to make enough money and how that money will then be distributed to the regions. As part of this reform, the government intends to introduce a regional tax, and experts fear that this regional tax will clearly increase the tax rate. If you think of a different starting point for regions and if the regions are allowed to decide independently on that tax, that tax will certainly also increase inequality. In what way will the government ensure that this type of tax accurate will not increase the overall tax rate and treat people equally across the country? And I would have liked to ask whether the relevant minister is going to invite these regions in this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u81	And the Minister... Minister Vanhanen. — — — — Do you have an answer?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u82	Mr President! Minister Paatero is not here. — With its reform, the overall tax rate will not increase. That is the starting point for preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u83	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. And here is the supplementary question, Mr Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u84	Madam President! I asked how it will be ensured, and I do not think that I have received an answer from Mr Vanhane now, nor did I receive an answer to whether you call these regions welfare areas or social welfare regions. However, one major concern is also the way in which the third sector producers that are so important to us, and also the private producers, are involved in this alongside the public sector. There is great concern here that, for example, private and also third sector producers who are important in the services of the disabled, the elderly, for example, will now be left to the mope in this reform. In what way will this reform take into account the fact that these producers are an important part of this whole and that they are also needed, especially by region, as producers of these services? How will this be taken into account? I hope that you will answer the question as to how and not tell us that this will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u85	Mr President! The representative stated that in this reform private producers will remain in the mope. I do want to question this part of the mop. Although I don't know what you meant by this term. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u88	Let me ask you one more question. Congressman Sipilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u89	Mr President! The success and jobs of a great many industries here in Finland are based on high scientific expertise. Now there is worrying information about high schools and also about entrance exams: integration and derivation are no longer available, it is not going as it should be. There is a great deal of concern about the knowledge of mathematical subjects. One of the concerns is the electronic matriculation examination, which was not prepared in upper secondary schools or in teacher training. Teachers are exhausted because, for example, there are no properly functioning electronic programs and there is a need to spend time learning software in minor classes. All this is, of course, out of the teaching of subjects and, for example, from a profound understanding of the solution to mathematical problems. Of course, many of these problems are already leaving primary school. So I ask Mr Andersson: what is going to happen to this problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u90	Mr President! The questioner is quite right that knowledge of mathematical and natural sciences is extremely important, and it is also a matter for which development work has been carried out in Finland, including through these luma networks, which have also wanted to strengthen this competence in schools and upper secondary schools. As far as this electronic matriculation examination is concerned, I understand that the Student Examination Board has stressed the starting point that it should be possible to do math yo-tests with a wide range of computers, which can therefore be purchased at different prices in different parts of Finland, and with various types of software, including those that are available free of charge, for example, in accordance with the Open Source principle. They have taken this as an important starting point, because it may then also reflect the practical situations in working life that are being faced, i.e. there is not always one specific software that is being used, but young people should be able to apply what they know in different types of digital environments.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u91	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of one hour shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u92	Madam President! The citizens' initiative now under discussion is, could you say, certainly the most timely in time, because right now we are moving, there are many white cheek geese coming to fall slops. The initiative itself does not focus on how hunting should be carried out. It will then remain the responsibility of this house if there is any discussion of hunting at all. At the moment, the Birds Directive does not allow hunting, but it is possible to expel with an exception. It is therefore important to note that we are now discussing issues in which we consider the EU Birds Directive and at the same time also the Finnish Nature Conservation Act to be considered as a large entity. We can, of course, do something ethical at national level in this situation, and that is that we change the Finnish Nature Conservation Act so that when this protected bird, as well as the cormorants, is killed with an exemption, as is actually stated in the Habitats Directive, it could be taken over and exploited. It is incomprehensible that food suitable for human consumption must be disposed of either by burial or by burning. This unethicality is in our own national hands. The EU Habitats Directive does not prohibit takeover and exploitation. It even allows commercial activity if commercial activity is neither an end in itself nor a starting point for an exemption. The EU has offered us help in this problem. The Commission has said that it will help Member States with the possibility of derogation. One big thing about these, both for the cormorants and for the white goose, is the constitutional protection of property and the freedom to pursue a business. And I believe that there is also a connection here with the fact that we have municipal tax-paying municipalities, from which the white-cheese goose deprives us of the possibility of using tax-maintained grasslands and bathing areas. White cheek geese and cormorants belong to the nature of Finland and have their place here, including those who move so that they do not nest in Finland – we also have a white cheek geese strain that nests in Finland. We must do something about this, because it has already happened that people hate these creatures and at the same time the authorities. We need to be able to talk insensitively so that we are constructive, so that Finnish nature is also possible for these birds and many others – I am sure we will also be discussing wolves this year. We must have this proper dialogue so that there is no confrontation. At this point, the exemptions granted by the authorities have been quite long-term and are not possible. The authorisation authority may, if requested, or on its own initiative, grant its derogation immediately and may immediately proceed to compliance. But in any case, even at that point, there can be an appeal to the administrative court, and it is to be assumed that when the ten thousand-headed flock of birds has arrived in the field, it is already too late to obtain an exemption for that place. These large amounts of compensation of millions of euros that will be paid this year are not reasonable, because someone is losing their livelihoods and that is not appropriate. It has been proposed a great deal that it should be transferred to the species to be hunted. I would like to warn you of that fantasy, although it is one short cut to deal with this matter. This may mean that farmers will not receive compensation for years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u95	I understand that there is a willingness to debat this kind of thing, but we will still take a few speeches at this beginning.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u96	Madam President! This citizens' initiative is very welcome and, as the honourable Member said, this timing is also good. It must be noted that, at the moment, food shortages are increasing in the world, and they have even been wary of food shortages. In Finland, the need for food aid is growing, and it seems strange that we in Finland can still afford to feed our fields to white cheek geese. These damage is already thousands of hectares this year, and the damage compensation for farmers is quite negligible in relation to that loss. It has already been mentioned here that the white goose has been protected by the EU Birds Directive and the so-called Berne Agreement, but yes, we have to ask whether we really have an endangered species. A couple of years ago, we found that there were well over 30,000 white-cheese geese, and the number has increased by about 10% each year, so it is quite clear that something needs to be done about this, and I see that, in the light of current knowledge at least, allowing for limited hunting is the sensible solution in which to go. In Estonia and Sweden, which have also signed this Berne Agreement, hunting for white cheek geese is allowed from the fields to prevent crop damage, and in limited quantities hunting has also been carried out in parks and golf courses, for example. The same could be done in Finland. Of course, there are city dwellers who live in a bubble and may not have understood that food has to be produced somewhere and that every destroyed field means less to eat. In some ways it has been rather strange to observe that here some political groups have offered the solution, firstly, that hunting should not be allowed in any way and, as a solution, that these geese... [The PresidentAnuVehvillainen : I'm sorry, speaker. I hope that if we want to have a meeting, it will be held outside this hall. — The representative, Ms Essayah, continues. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u99	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to express my thanks to the citizens' initiative makers for this important and timely initiative. In the 21st century in particular, the white cheek geese population has spread to North Karelia. During the spring and autumn migration period, for example, white cheek geese have been counted as up to 300,000 individuals in the North of Kymen valley alone. This is influenced by the fact that the main migration route for white cheek geese has moved from Russia to Finland. The destruction caused by geese is significant for farmers whose fields are nested with geese and, as a result, the cost to farmers has increased enormously in recent years. In view of the increase in the number of geese, it is highly likely that, where the number of geese increases, the amount of damage caused will also do so. Many efforts have been made to expel geese, including dogs and laser lights and shooting into the air. However, these measures have not been helpful, since the geese will certainly return back to the fields soon. At the end of the grasses and wheat groves, geese also eat the seeds of grain and other plants sown in the fields. In the fight against geese, farmers' means are insufficient. Mr President! Controlling white cheek geese is hampered by the fact that they are protected individuals. This has prevented the hunting of geese, although it has been possible to hunt them with derogations. However, I do not think that this is enough. The plentiful increase in white cheek geese no longer justifies why the species should in particular be protected. On the other hand, the goose population would withstand limited hunting. Of course, the impact of hunting on the white goose population should be monitored and, if necessary, re-evaluated. Allowing hunting as soon as possible would help to prevent serious damage caused by birds. I also think it is very important that white cheek geese should also be used as food. Mr President! Grass areas contaminated by geese' feces for recreational purposes have also been a burden for people for years. For example, in this Helsinki city, the lawns of Töölönlahti Park, which are filled with white-cheek goose feces. This disturbs people who come with friends and family to spend free time. Although it is not a matter of anyone's livelihood, it would be good to address this problem as well, it is not right that parks are now recreational areas for geese. The fact is that soft means have been found to be completely inadequate and, in the future, more robust means must be put in place to reduce the white-cheek goose stock. Without this, there will be a mass increase of birds out of hand. This, on the other hand, leads to ever-increasing compensation. The focus now needs to be on minimising the problems caused by white cheek geese more effectively in the future, if necessary, without prejudice to adequate legislation and the legal protection of the farmer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u100	I understood that there was a willingness to have a debate here, so I would ask those representatives who would like to use the reply, to stand up and press the answer button. This debut will be initiated by Congressman Kalmari.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u101	Madam President! This initiative, a truly important citizens' initiative in itself, has been submitted specifically to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, but I am grateful that there is also a Minister for the Environment. Our committee, together with the Committee on the Environment, has already intervened in the spring, because it is intolerable that farmers should be able to suffer at their worst tens of thousands of damage and compensation for it and be insignificant in relation to the damage suffered. Together we call for solutions to come, to come with respect for nature, but in such a way that people’s problems and distress are addressed. That is why I am grateful that, when this set-up goose fist suggested that withdrawal permits must come in a completely different model, now those withdrawal permits have come in such a way that they have already become 6170.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u103	Mr President! With two ministers here, my impression is that it has been possible to hunt and use white cheek geese in Finland for a long time. There is no national obstacle, there is no barrier to the Birds Directive, there is no barrier to the Berne Agreement, so I think that this citizens' initiative is absolutely right. In Finland, we now have to learn the message of fundamental rights in this Constitution, which the Constitutional Committee has last drawn attention to and instructed the government to do this morning. Now that farmers are doing their own business and have mass destruction in the fields because of these birds, it is a matter of property protection, it is a matter of freedom to pursue a business. These birds, in a way, violate fundamental rights by means of these extensive destructions, and this cannot be the case through the Nature Conservation Act. In addition, I point out that when these may push tens of thousands of pounds into the lake, even
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u104	Madam President! White cheek geese and cormorants are issues that have been under discussion for several years, and I can see, in the case of white cheek geese, that their population has already grown too large. Compared to the forest goose, for example, its population is larger, and the forest goose can be hunted in Northern Finland and partly in South-East Finland. So there are really good reasons for this. A couple of weeks ago I was on a duck hunt, and ducks were being bombed, and at the same time a bunch of white-cheeked geese rolled around — they were not afraid of the shooting at all, there they were just circling and caving, which means that this intimidation does not drive them out of the fields.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u105	Madam President! I, too, would like to thank those who took the initiative. This is a very timely initiative. Over the past decade, the number of white cheek geese in Finland has increased to an unprecedented degree. So we have domestic park geese, as well as geese from the Arctic regions of Russia, which hit us during the migration period, put pressure on us to start hunting. The strain can withstand shooting, but the species has been protected under the EU directive. That is why legislation needs to be amended and white-cheese geese need to be turned into game. White cheek geese are causing major damage to farmers' orchards and haystacks. In no time, the harvest has been destroyed by a flock. However, compensation does not cover lost crops. The geese don't ask much about which fields they go to, and the dogs can't expel this many geese, so the only way is hunting. The shooting quotas granted by the Ely Centre for a few ten geese will not solve the problem. The conversion of the species into a game saves costs and bureaucracy. However, I would also like to mention that every hunter must, however, ensure that other species among them, which are rarer and more endangered, must not be shot. The use of geese for eating and commercialisation must also be made possible, and in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection the Finns have made an initiative for action, to which I hope everyone will take a positive stance. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u106	Madam President! Human beings and nature are in conflict when we discuss white cheek geese and the situation of farmers. Not for the first time: this is indeed a challenge that has existed for years and for which no simple solution has been found. At the same time, I have great sympathy for farmers who suffer from the damage caused by geese, and I am surprised that, in such a situation, it is believed that only shooting at geese could solve the situation. Even in this Chamber, it is obvious that many people will not even understand what geese are about, even though they are well aware that the EU Birds Directive currently prevents extensive hunting, only derogations have been granted. The joint working group of geese between the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of the Environment has provided a wide range of ways to resolve the situation now and has gone on. It is clear that hunting for geese alone has no hope of effective and lasting effects.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u107	Madam President! The population of calmed white cheek geese has grown strongly throughout the 21st century. There are already more than 1.3 million of them, and the agricultural damage they have caused has increased year by year, but the damage also occurs on beaches, children’s playgrounds and parks — they are in appalling condition. The losses caused by the destruction of geese must be fully compensated for by agriculture, but the immediate removal of geese from the affected fields must also be allowed. In Estonia, for example, hunting is permitted under existing EU directives on the basis of national legislation. Why can't it be ours too, Minister Leppä? Now, derogations have been applied for for the shooting of geese and also for the use of geese, that is to say, for eating. A few permits have been granted, but permissions to eat have been refused. The eating of white cheek geese could have been allowed, as the Birds Directive does not prevent it, and I would ask:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u108	Mr President! First of all, it is absolutely essential that we find a balance with the rest of nature and that we are able to live here in such a way that we accept the existence of other species. As far as this citizens' initiative is concerned, it is my view that the prevention of harm caused by white cheek geese is central. These disadvantages are real and can also be prevented, and especially when it comes to people's livelihoods, prevention is really important. But at the same time, we must also respect the right of other species to be here. Nature conservation is our particular responsibility and also our compassion for other species. It is therefore necessary to find solutions that combine these views and, for example, to prevent crop damage, solutions that are effective on the basis of research and cause birds:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u109	Madam President! As was done jointly with the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, this joint statement and encouragement was made to both ministers to resolve this problem of white cheek geese, so the same applies to the cormorants to this very day — both harmful behaviour and an excessive population on a site-by-place basis. As far as white cheek geese are concerned, it is quite well-intentioned, but it still needs to be developed, because experience shows that all the other forms of expulsion to which reference has been made are, to quote one farmer, ‘mainly intermission music’. The guy's dog they drove out of the fields so that the dog had to die, I wonder what happened to the dog. A real hunting dog was sent over there to see how he was doing. He didn't make it. In other words, hunting must be allowed, and I am sure there will be ways in this house to put it on a permanent footing. The aim must always be that such overpopulations can be managed by their own national decisions. As far as the consumption of game meat is concerned, it must be allowed, because I think it is a desecration of natural resources that they are thrown away.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u110	Mr President! It is a good thing that this issue should come to Parliament's attention and debate also through the citizens' initiative, so thank you to all those who have taken the initiative and to those who have signed it. In the summer, we held a joint consultation with the committees, and the working group of officials has presented solutions. And once we know that the situation has been very critical in many places and regions for years, I would like the ministers in this context to point out whether the white-cheese goose can be transferred there under the hunting law and, if it were transferred there, whether these crop compensation payments paid by the Ministry of the Environment could be paid under current conditions until the payment basis of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry under the Hunting Act had been notified in the Commission. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u111	Mr President! The damage to crops caused by white cheek geese is unacceptable to farmers and even leaves are irritating in cities. More effective ways of reducing crop damage must be found. I understand that the Ministry of the Environment has been ready all along to transfer the species to the hunting law. However, this was not recommended by the Goose Task Force. The Ministry of the Environment has therefore proposed that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry prepare the necessary legislative amendments in order to include restricted hunting of white cheek geese in the fight against the harm caused by geese to farming and green areas. In addition, when, with the exception, geese are expelled from the field by shooting, dogs or lasers, there must be a place for geese to move, so that they do not return to the field soon — a rather simple thing that is strangely populated here too. However, humans and geese must learn to live together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u112	Mr President! In public, some representatives have spoken defiantly, in which the geese are cast into a cast iron pot with roots and red wine, but in the negotiations, those who trusted the centre received feeding fields in full care. Goose-like conditions are being created for white cheek geese at the same time as citizens are calling for easier hunting. But a more flexible interpretation of the exemption procedure for hunting white cheek geese can be made. And I ask the Minister: why is the protection hunt referred to in Article 9 of the Birds Directive not taken into account in the case of white cheek geese? From a culinary point of view, domestic root vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions and beetroots, with butter, salt and honey, need only a little water and red wine, perhaps even a bearing leaf, but above all goose breast fillet, so that the extensive agricultural damage turns into a treat rather than a soup bucket. I support the initiative that has been taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u116	Irade the Talman! Enligt BirdLifes statistik har beståndet av vittindade gäss mer ¤ fördubblats under de Senaste tio åren. Det råder ingen tvekan om att den kraftiga ökningen av gåsen har blivet ett alltmer omfattande problem som berör många fler än jordbrukare och ägare av grönområden. Ersättningarna som betalas ut går i milonclassen. Vi behöver jakt och vi behöver också vöjligheten att ta till vöttet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u117	Madam President! First of all, thank all the signatories to the citizens' initiative. It is quite significant and it speaks of a large number of people, especially in those areas where the number of white cheek geese has been looted to the size of the hectares in the field. This year in particular, geese have caused significant damage to farmland, and the Ely Centre in our region has been allowed to grant derogations for the expulsion of white cheek geese protected by the Nature Conservation Act, along with other means, also by shooting. By the end of September, an exemption had been granted for expulsion by shooting at 24 farms. In the case of shootings, the leaving of geese in the field has also proved to be a deterrent, as we in this Chamber know. I myself think that when a white-cheese goose is a so-called alien species, which has spread to Finland on its own feet/sports,if this species causes significant damage, its control and restricted hunting will, if necessary, come to Finland. The Goose Working Group's report shows solutions and options, and there is no point in them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u118	Mr President! Thank you to the signatories and authors of this important citizens' initiative. It is good that Parliament is now able to deal fully with this issue. Many problematic aspects have been raised here, all of which would be resolved by the transfer of the white-cheese goose to the hunting law, as has been done in Sweden and Estonia, both of which are also covered by EU legislation. We have also clarified the matter and the Ministry of the Environment has informed us that there would be no legal, non-EU or national obstacles to this, nor would there be any legal obstacles to the transfer of white cheek geese to the hunting law, nor would there be any other obstacles to the continued payment of these current compensations from the area of compensatory allowances until this new compensation system in the EU has been notified. In the public hearing, Minister Mikkonen suggested that he still thinks this procedure is possible; is it now the case that Minister Leppä is opposed to this, or why is this obvious solution not being made now?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u119	Madam Speaker! Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers for an important topic. In the spring of 2020 the white cheek geese situation has been very exceptional in North Karelia and South-East Finland. White cheek geese arrived about a week early in the spring, and most of them stopped on the Finnish side for about a month. The number of geese fed in eastern Finland was estimated at 650,000. White cheek geese caused significant damage, in particular to livestock farms and grass farming. The amount of compensation for damage in Finland rose to approximately EUR 2.7 million. In North Karelia, more than 5,200 hectares of crops were affected to the value of approximately EUR 1,7 million. I would like to ask the Minister of State: how do you see the possibility of promoting the amendment proposed by the goose fist to the Nature Conservation Act, which would allow derogations to be granted to areas, such as the municipality, rather than to individual persons? This would be like a lot of talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u120	Madam President! I would like to thank the citizens' initiative for this. In this context, the Finns of Finland have taken a measure initiative, and now even the representative of the Left Alliance has made a bill that game can be used as food.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u123	Madam President! We are on such a constitutional issue that, with Mr Estilä, we were forced to appeal to the Chancellor of Justice for the protection of the Constitution's property and the freedom to conduct a business which is subordinate to a special law. So let's really talk about big things. We have been in that situation for years, and now I have a little jump into that coastal area also with regard to cormorants, that derogations will be granted at the time when that nesting strain from Finland has moved away and they have already done its damage, the bass stocks will be 70 per cent smaller. And now this is happening with white cheek geese. Now we have to thank the Minister for the speed with which he has been given to the licensing authorities, so that this expulsion by shooting is
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u124	Madam President! This citizens' initiative is good, important and absolutely necessary, as we can see from the debate that has already taken place. White cheek geese cause great harm to farmers and fields when they land, not to mention the dirt damage that is occurring in urban areas where there are more. In time, there must have been grounds for this reassurance, but the position has grown to such an extent that it is now time to reassess it. And I'm glad they're doing it now. It cannot be that the bird’s rights are stronger than the fundamental rights to try and earn a living. This disadvantage is quite unreasonable for farmers who are responsible for the food supply in our country, and money cannot compensate for it. It makes more sense, as has been suggested here in many speeches, to allow hunting and to allow the bird to eat and return its position to such.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u125	Madam President! Food must not be left behind or wasted. Mother already taught at home. The need for food aid is growing in our countries and the world. We are talking about food security and reducing food loss, but white cheek geese cannot be exploited. The situation is frustrating. Our job is to cultivate and preserve. White cheek geese are a protected species whose strain has grown too large. It's time for a reassessment. The fundamental right of farmers to conduct a business must be protected, as the damage to crops is disproportionate. Hunting should be allowed and the meat of white cheek geese should be able to be exploited. It is worth taking forward the proposals of the fist anyway. Goose soil playgrounds, beaches and recreational areas. Of course, small handicaps in urban areas could also be prevented by reducing lawn areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u126	Mr President! People know. Shotguns for geese. I support the citizens' initiative. White - cheeked goose is a very vibrant species whose stock is growing at a rate of 10% a year. The millions of destructions of crops, parks and beaches must be put to an end. Government buffet games, idea competitions and goose coordinators are not a sustainable solution. These more than 9,000 exemptions for shooting geese have been drummed by the city centre, but 376 of them have been used by yesterday. So only less than 400 geese have been shot, even though the permits expire in a couple of weeks. The opportunity to shoot is not enough, because contrary to ecologicalism and reason, geese within the scope of the Nature Conservation Act are not allowed to be eaten. There is a solution: transfer the species to the hunting law. Mr Leppä! Are you opposed to the transfer of this species into a game at national level even before the Birds Directive?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u127	Mr President! The population of white cheek geese has grown in recent years, and the flocks moving north have caused extensive crop damage, especially in Eastern Finland. These damage must, of course, be reimbursed to farmers, and this has also been done. In order to prevent damage, there is a need for a number of measures: for birds to eat fields, for derogation from the ban on geese and for sufficient resources for regional cooperation. The essential thing is that geese have dining areas where they do not cause any damage. The expulsion of birds with or without a gun is of no use if the birds have nowhere to go. Mr President! So shooting birds alone is not the solution, and non-lethal means are also researchedly effective in order to banish birds and prevent crop damage. I would stress that we need to find ways of lasting coexistence with nature, and also with white cheek geese, and that is what the work of the goose task force aims to achieve.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u128	Madam President! In Sweden and Estonia, white cheek geese have already been transferred to the hunting law, why not in Finland? In all its simplicity, I would like to give farmers, in particular, the opportunity to safeguard their own livelihood by shooting and hunting an explosively grown white-cheese goose. I have discussed this with several of my constituents, South-East Finland, the farmer, and the pain must be touched. First a few geese come into the field, and the next day the field is blacked out. All the work and effort these entrepreneurs already carry in a challenging sector will be realised in a moment. This challenging whole is not the fault of the white cheek geese, and I am not saying that this is the fault of the government either, but if you are just trying to figure out and spin this thing, even though there is an emergency, then at some point the finger that blames you will point out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u129	And this was the last response to the debate, Mr Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u130	Mr President! I think that this citizens' initiative is very wise to ask why there is no sense in hunting white cheek geese. It is quite clear that this claim is not being fulfilled at the moment. Well, we do know some of the reasons, but I think it is now a question of changing the law or action if it is wrong. Of course, the centre is supported, of course, by the excellent proposals of the goose fist to remedy the situation, but all these practices, even these activities, will not solve the problem. So I would like to ask the ministers: how would you see the steps we are taking now to correct the situation so as to allow hunting to take place?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u131	And before we move on to the list of speakers, the two-minute speeches will be made by both ministers. Who's gonna start? — Minister Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u132	Thank you for a good debate. As you can see, this question is: how can we ensure the migration route of white cheek geese and, on the other hand, ensure that farmers living in that area can engage in their livelihoods in such a way that birds do not cause crop damage? How can these be combined? That is what this has been all about. And as has now been the case in this debate, this is not a new problem; it has been a problem for years. But the problem has worsened, and especially this autumn, when the weather conditions were such that the geese stopped for a long time in the fields of North Karelia, they caused massive damage. That is why, together with Minister Leppa, we set up this working group on geese, which sought answers to this problem. I think that what was found there is a good one, and now we are moving them forward fast. For example, in the case of these derogations, we have increased the resources of the authorities. Now derogations have been granted quickly. Indeed, a week and a half ago, my information was that more than six thousand of them have now been given. The payment of compensation has also been accelerated this year and a goose coordinator has also been hired to find common means. The feeding fields that have been raised here are also necessary because when birds are expelled from places where they must not be and cause harm, there must be a place where the birds can be. Otherwise, they'll be flying back and continuing to do the damage. Then we also have longer-term means. It is this Berne agreement that has been mentioned here. How do we ensure that this species, which is now vibrant — it no longer needs that protection,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u133	Minister Leppä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u134	Madam President! White - cheeked geese have multiplied rapidly and strongly, and the damage is in the million - dollar category. This cannot continue. It must be possible to defend the business, it must be possible to defend its health, its life, its property, and there must be a means to do so. Well, now we finally have these methods. We have more than six thousand goose permits for this year to shoot them, and that is more than it is in Estonia and is in Sweden. Effective means of expulsion are therefore needed. My aim is to allow the white goose to hunt game, unambiguously clear, and this strain will certainly withstand it. But this requires an amendment to the EU Birds Directive,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u137	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u138	Mr President! Firstly, I believe that it is possible for us to live on this planet in a way that is more sustainable and also fairer from the point of view of other species. This is not happening at the moment, but I hope that we will go further towards it, because I think it is quite clear that other species also have the right to live here, and even if it does not have such weight, the fact is that man cannot survive here without a diverse and living environment. A few comments on this debate: Indeed, there are two white cheek geese in Finland, and it is important to distinguish that the best solutions to prevent these disadvantages are not necessarily the same for these different strains. In particular, prevention of harm to people's livelihoods is highly justified. It is important to pay compensation, but above all it is more important to prevent these disadvantages. I personally see that this is a question of how to manage this whole and how to manage it as sustainably as possible, and I personally would like us to find solutions that combine the rights of animals with the prevention of damage. As I said, these birds in particular should be promoted and strongly supported in order to have a proper inspiration. They have been studied, and they are an effective measure when they are targeted correctly. Indeed, there are varying experiences of other means of expulsion and, in addition, expulsion can be totally ineffective if there is no alternative place for birds to go, so here too we go back to exactly what the Minister for the Environment has well opened, that there should be alternative places for birds to eat if we want to find sustainable solutions. Then, as far as these derogations are concerned, I hope that their impact and effectiveness will also be monitored and evaluated and evaluated in relation to these other forms of expulsion. It is the attitude of the people, which I see as an obligation for all of us to make an effort not to create this kind of animal and goose hatred, because it will not help to resolve this issue either. Then the last thing I want to say is this imbalance between humans, farm animals and pets in relation to the rest of the environment and wild animals, which is that we must:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u139	Mr President! I warmly support this citizens' initiative — a shotgun for geese in fields and parks. White cheek geese have become pests. Bird columnes that have taken over the beaches and parks have long been testing the limits of tolerance. In recent years, the spring migration of up to one and a half million geese nesting on Russian tundra across the fields of Eastern Finland has also broken the camel's back in rural areas. The autumn migration route of these Hitchcock birds seems now to have spread further west, which is probably due to the growth of the stock, and therefore the birds are going to cause ever-increasing damage to the plantations. In other words, the problem will only get worse in the future, without measures at all. In agriculture alone, the financial losses caused by white-cheese geese have been at least EUR 3 million this year. The real disadvantages are considerably more extensive, and really, the problem is only getting worse. — Good government, defend property and livelihood. The price of over-protection falls not only on farmers but also on park users and island users. The damage to recreation areas has hardly been investigated, but more than 30,000 geese, an individual nesting on the coast, are unfortunately familiar to us neo-Americans. Park picnics, even children’s playtime in parks, have been forgotten in the summer, thanks to protected stools. — Good government, people want these parks and recreational areas back. Mr President! Growing compensation amounts, using repellents or buffets do not provide a sustainable solution to the growing goose population at a rate of more than 10% per year. The stock calculation shows that white cheek geese are a fully viable species whose populations grow at an unsustainable rate from the perspective of the rest of the environment. So there is no justification for a calming down of the species. The geese must be expelled from the parks, and the stock must be effectively thinned. We want to move white cheek geese into game and hunting law. We have presented this solution with a joint initiative already in the spring. It is true that as an Annex I species to the EU Birds Directive, a white goose enjoys a certain level of protection that we cannot ignore nationally. However, the government cannot hide behind the EU in this matter, because the Birds Directive is precisely obliging us to take account of the trends in bird populations and to justify protection hunting. In Sweden and Estonia, full use has been made of the flexibility of the directive so that white cheek geese are subject to hunting law. In Sweden, autumn goose hunting is allowed on a regional basis without separate derogations. There is no obstacle to progress in Finland in a similar way. Finland should not be a model student in the protection of geese, but should be allowed to hunt geese in fields to protect human and animal health, as Article 9 of the Birds Directive allows. In the long term, it is clear that the species should be removed from the EU Birds Directive as a protected species and added to Annex II as a hunted species. Mr President! The Minister for Agriculture and Forestry has pointed out that the transfer of white-cheese goose to the hunting law would jeopardise the crop damage compensation now paid to farmers for years to come. That is not the case. I have been informed by the Ministry of the Environment that on behalf of the Ministry of the Environment, an option has been proposed for the Goose Working Group to clarify where, in the event of a decision to transfer a white cheek goose to the Hunting Act, the harvest damage compensation paid by the Ministry of the Environment could continue to be paid under the current conditions until the payment basis of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry under the Hunting Act has been notified in the EU Commission. However, Minister Leppä, your ministry has apparently indicated that such an addition will not be accepted in this memorandum. That's what I understand. Please correct me if I have misunderstood. Mr President! We call for reason to protect the goose. It is also in the interest of these geese. The goose invasion has caused not only deep frustration but also outright hatred in people, and this frustration is best combated by reducing the stock and restoring parks to people and protecting farmers' livelihoods and property.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u140	Mr President! I am also in favour of this initiative, and I would like to thank the authors and others involved. In my opinion, protection must be fair, and at the moment, as in the case of white cheek geese, as in the case of cormorants — and I will take these wolves as well, when we will probably be talking about them this autumn — this population has grown too large, and is not in a way fearless, as for example for a forest goose. And as in my earlier speech, I compared this to hunting for forest geese: they can be hunted, and their population is smaller than white cheek geese. In other words, there is no longer any basis for this protection, as has been said here. As I recall, the Minister also said that the position is very dynamic. Similarly, in the case of white cheek geese, it might be possible to allow hunting in areas where there is a problem. And, of course, it is important when it comes to game that it should then be able to be used as food. It was mentioned earlier that the migration route is mainly on the North Karelia side, but there have been white cheek geese in North Ostrobothnia and Kainuusaki. Large flocks here two or three weeks ago flew on the shore of Lake Oulu. That the penetration is significant. It is probably because the population has grown too large, so they will then spread throughout the entire empire. They won't be afraid to shoot if they don't. So this kind of air shooting is not working. As I said earlier: When we were on that duck hunt and there ducks were shot, this white-cheeked goose flock was running around all the time and they were not afraid to shoot at all. So then they start to be scared when they start falling off the side. And I do see one option here: that this hunting should be allowed, at least with derogations. Of course, that 6,000 is relative to that population, but if it serves as a deterrent, of course it is good at first, but I would see that hunting would be allowed and then could also be used as food. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u141	One last speaker will be asked to take the floor before the proceedings and the debate are adjourned.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u142	Mr President! I think that this citizens' initiative is very much to be welcomed. A few points: only about three hundred more than 6000 to 7000 white cheek geese have been shot. This shows that it is not easy to hunt, and even when it is a game bird, it is not by hunting. Moreover, monitoring the development of the stock can, of course, either limit or allow hunting. On 18 September, we took the initiative with the representatives of Huru, Laakso, Simula and Koponen, which reads as follows: ‘Initial action on the addition of white-cheese geese ‘The white cheek geese have already done several years of damage tofarmers in Finland,and the destruction This is a very serious situation because the species will continue to be among the vibrant species. Today the situation is that white cheek geese are a protected species in our country under the Nature Conservation Act. This despite the efforts made by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to bring about a change.’ — Thank you for that. “As a basic Finn group,the abovementioned management has been shown by other Committees on the Environment In the same context, we have raised the issue of allowing game meat from white cheek geese and other similar animals to be used as useful food instead of burning or digging into the ground.’ If we think that if all the derogations were used, some 15,000 pounds [15,000 kg] of meat fit for human consumption would be destroyed while people are standing in line for bread. The green ideology does not allow the meat in question to be used even for the benefit of those in need. That's a few points to think about. I am very pleased that the people have spoken again. Citizens' initiatives are a very profitable and wonderful way of presenting us here in Parliament with different perspectives and even demands on what we should do in this Chamber. The Finnish people have also voted for you, the good left, to be here for their cause, not for your political ideology. I would like to thank the signatories of this initiative, everyone individually and together, as well as the authors. I hope that this initiative, like the legislative initiatives that have been taken here and the action initiative that I have just read, will be taken into account and that we will find a solution here that will allow the farmers who are being exploited to continue to work safely in the future. In my opinion, no goose belongs in any field to destroy anyone's livelihood. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u143	Thank you. — Minister Mikkonen, one minute and then the case is suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u144	Mr President! It is certainly a good thing that the citizens' initiative is coming here for debate and the committees are now dealing with it, because this is clearly an issue that is talking to people, and at the same time the solutions put forward by the Goose Group will certainly arise there in committee and what has already been done to resolve this problem. Someone asked whether research was also involved in this, so that we would be even better able to ensure that we were able to prevent damage and also know what were the effective means of expulsion, and that is indeed the case. Now this exception also involves research, and one of the things that has been found is that when the shot goose is left in the field, it attracts predators, sea eagles, and these beasts, on the other hand, keep the geese away for a long time. This is one observation that has already been made. But here's the bottom line.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u145	And Minister Leppä, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u146	Mr President! Five important points in summary: We must be able to defend our business and property. The geese have become so abundant that they no longer need modern protection. They must become a species to be hunted. The compensation must be secured. We have to be able to eat geese. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u147	Thank you. — The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u148	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u149	Ärade talman, Mr President! Det är så att vi nu har ett medborgarinitiativ kring att tillåta jakt på den vitthadade gåsen, och det har förts en discussion kring det rai redan en tid. Den allmänna ståndpunkten är ju att man ska övergå till litet likanande som i Sverige, att tillåta jakt, och det är någonting som jag själv personalligen också stöder. Här vill jag förstås också lyfta fram scarven som ställer till med mycket huvudbry längs med kusten, till exempel då det gäller fiske men också för den allmänna trivseln i skärgården.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u150	Mr President! The fall migration is taking place, and the fields are turning into feeding machines for white cheek geese, just like in the spring. A more flexible interpretation of the derogation procedure for hunting white cheek geese could be made, as in Sweden. Out-of-wash hunting would be a significant improvement on the current situation. And goose sharks are not confined to agriculture. You don’t have to go to Ruissalo and there will be a larger population of geese than the recreationrs and tourists in Turku will be able to gather together. “It was eight years, it was long ago, when the firstsubstances were rotated in Turku like this ” — a couple of geese arriving After that, white cheek geese in the North Sea started accelerating migration to the Turku region. Throughout the summer, geese populate parks and beaches in particular. In the past, Turku has even had to rely on the municipal ‘fear of the bird’, which has been paid with public funds to chase the geese away from the Ruissalo National Park and the Ispoise The Natural Resources Center has been trying to plant the reed that geese dread. It's the micro mushrooms. However, the results are considered uncertain because the experiment was carried out near the botanical garden, where there are no geese — but there are plenty of deer in the forest, perhaps they enjoyed reeds. By yesterday, 293 white cheek geese had been shot in the Ely district of Varsinais-Suomi with an exception. However, the authorisations granted do not allow for the expulsion of white cheek geese, but at the same time all forms of non-harmful expulsion must be strengthened. Dogs have also been used to banish dogs, as some breeds of dogs enjoy getting geese into the air. However, geese have learned and are now flying earlier and are returning when our four - footed friends are not watching them. In addition to shooting, it has been seen as a means of expulsion when other means have not worked. Looks like it's come to this. I suspect that feeding birds will not serve as a lasting solution unless they are then fattened on the table. The Minister for the Environment spoke of ‘goat hatred’,but a large number But first of all, the ideas put forward in the citizens' initiative should be put into law and make the situation of geese even slightly less so than they are in the current "Hanhivaara" scenario.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u151	Mr President! There have been good speeches here about the white goose. I myself would like to repeat this point of view in relation to EU protection, which, in my opinion, is a good indication of the inaction of this protection: when the stock becomes endangered to vitality, neither the law nor the rules can be changed so that the bird can be hunted. It's pretty unbearable. I also believe that these protective fields are questionable in the EU while, at the same time, geese are being gassed at Amsterdam airports. It seems rather strange that in other parts of the EU geese are gassed because of their high prevalence and that in another country there are protected areas. That doesn't make much sense. The derogations that the Ely Centre of Varsinais-Suomi was able to grant were good, but this small number of birds shot also shows that it is not an easily hunted species. So if you imagine that a thousand geese will fall into the field and be shot at by a goose or two or even ten, then not all a thousand of them will wait for it to be hunted. Of course, this small number of shootings is also partly explained by the fact that some of the birds had already changed their September migration when derogations were only granted. In other words, even if the species is placed among the species to be hunted, as long as the stock and its development are monitored, it will certainly be possible to regulate it if it continues to be endangered. It could well be passed on to it and thus a sustainable and sensible solution, which is still cost-effective. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u152	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Transport and Communications, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u153	Mr President! A second annual climate report is now under discussion and was adopted by the Government in June. The Climate Year Report is laid down in the Climate Act. According to it, the report must be submitted to Parliament annually. The climate report therefore provides a good basis for both Parliament and the wider public to assess which climate policy is taking place in terms of emissions development and targets. Its purpose is to enable Parliament to hold a debate on topical issues in climate policy on the basis of the latest information. The annual report examines the development of emissions in different sectors and assesses the state of achievement of the targets on the basis of available emission performance estimates. The first climate report, issued last year, focused on the assessment of the emission performance of the burden-sharing sector, i.e. non-emission trading sectors such as transport, agriculture, separate heating of buildings and waste management, and the assessment of the medium-term climate policy plan for the burden-sharing sector, namely the achievement of the objectives of KAISU. At the beginning of this year, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection adopted a report on the annual report on climate change based on a broad consultation and a multi-committee opinion. The main message of the report was that the annual report should be developed in such a way that it gives a comprehensive overview of climate policy and emissions development. In other words, the reporting should cover total emissions, i.e. emissions from emissions trading and land use sectors as well as the burden sharing sector. The report also stressed the need to develop the annual climate report in a more strategic direction by strengthening the assessment of the effectiveness and adequacy of climate policy in relation to the tightening objectives, in particular in relation to the objective of 2035 carbon neutrality. We have already wanted this year's climate report to take account of the feedback we have received from Parliament and more widely from society. The report has now been extended to look at the development of total emissions and sinks, in addition to emissions from the burden sharing sector, and to assess the achievement of the carbon neutrality target set for 2035. Furthermore, this year's report also included an assessment of the adjustment situation, although under the current climate law this would only have been necessary once in the electoral term. The report has also looked at the policy measures in place, although the current law requires a review every two years. The annual climate report this year is therefore a very broad package and the extension of the content at this stage has already been justified, since the description of the content of the annual report under the current climate law can and must only be regarded as a minimum requirement. The content requirements of the annual report will therefore be updated to the Climate Act in connection with the reform of the law. In this context, I would like to thank Parliament for its valuable work on developing the annual report. So, then, what are the key messages of the 2020 climate report? Well, at the very beginning it is good to note that the annual climate report has already been issued in June and it is based on the emissions data of last year, i.e. 2019. For example, the numerous climate decisions we have taken in the autumn budget debate are not yet reflected in its estimates, but the Climate Year Report 2020 shows that climate policy has achieved the objectives previously set. Finland is in the process of meeting the EU's 2020 and 2030 emission reduction targets, but it is worth noting that the EU's 2030 emission reduction target is currently being updated in order to bring ambition into line with the Paris Agreement. So the work must continue and the pace must be tightened. According to the 2019 flash estimate data, Finland's total emissions decreased by around 6 per cent last year compared to the previous year, emissions from the emissions trading sector decreased by 11 per cent and emissions outside emissions trading decreased by 2 per cent, but slightly exceeded the annual emission allocation set by the EU. The rapid reduction in emissions in emissions trading is primarily due to a reduction in the use of fossil fuels, especially coal. According to the preliminary data, the net sink of the land use sector was 17.4 megatonnes. Thus, the net sink was clearly strengthened last year compared to the previous year, when the sink was record low, only 10.3 megatonnes. In fact, changes in the sink are directly reflected in changes in felling volumes, the variations of which may be significant from year to year. Even if, according to the 2019 flash estimate, Finland would slightly exceed its annual emission allocation, it would appear that Finland will achieve the EU burden-sharing sector emission reduction obligation for 2020. Thus, according to the current estimate, some additional units would remain for Finland during the period 2013-2020 and Finland would therefore meet its obligations for the whole period 2013-2020. The emission reduction measures of Section 2021 to 2023 have also been dimensioned to meet the emission reduction obligation of the burden-sharing sector. The necessary measures are defined in the medium-term climate policy plan. Some of these measures have already been implemented, but some are still being implemented. We know that the measures already taken are not enough to achieve this objective, but that further decisions are needed. More efforts are needed, particularly in the transport sector, to achieve the objective of halving transport emissions by 2030. The next step will be to define the necessary additional measures in the fossil-free road map to be drawn up under the leadership of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which will be completed at the end of the year. The annual report has also looked at emissions from consumption. According to available data, the carbon footprint of households is again growing. According to the report of the Finnish Environment Agency, Syke, emissions from Finland based on consumption have increased by 12 per cent from 2000 to 2016. This development is driven in particular by an increase in consumption expenditure. Overall, it seems clear that the current and planned measures are not sufficient to achieve the objective of carbon neutrality in 2035, but significantly more emission reductions are needed. Carbon sinks also play a key role in achieving the objective of carbon neutrality. The necessary new measures will be examined in the preparatory climate and energy strategy as well as in the new medium-term climate plan. These should be completed in autumn 2021. On the other hand, the land use sector climate plan assesses new policy measures to strengthen the net sinkage of the land use sector. The Climate Act is currently being reformed, and it is important that we strengthen the annual climate report so that it becomes an annual whole covering all sectors, enabling us to monitor the implementation of the carbon neutrality target of 2035 and other climate objectives and the adequacy of policy actions annually.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u154	Then let's go to the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u155	Mr President! When reading the Climate Year Report, it is hard to believe that it is a document to be discussed by the Parliament and not a delusional diary in which Finland imagines itself to be the European Emission Reduction King. The attitude of division reflects the relationship between the speech on public finances and this climate strategy. People are promised economic growth to pay for everything. At the same time, the climate objectives are despoiling the economy and the people. In the new language of the government, this is called a fair transition. I am picking up three sectors here: transport, agriculture and household consumption. The split-mindedness continues in the assessment of transport emissions targets. Imagine that the targets for the number of electric cars are easily met. Nevertheless, the Finnish car fleet persists in its ageing. A sick person doesn't come to his senses by hitting a stick. No matter how much tax they tax, Finns will not be able to renew their cars at an ever-increasing pace of ambition. The improvement of public transport is limited to urban areas and results are reasonably modest. With regard to agriculture, the administration should at last understand that farmers cannot stay together in the countryside to run food production. We will need every piece of land we have, and wherever the land is cultivated there must be a functional infrastructure, functional services and a good community. The concentration and specialisation required to survive in the EU has driven the capital and expense structure of primary food production to such an extent that it can no longer withstand any additional ideological burden. In the interest-bearing world, Finland's main interest should be in ensuring food supply. Household consumption, which has also been criticised here, is the engine that enables developed countries to live more people than in hunter-gathering cultures. Today, society is on its knees due to a fall in GDP of a few per cent. The objective of climate policy is to reduce the carbon footprint of citizens by an average of 50% by 2030. To keep to these targets within this timeframe would require a transition to the standard of living of North Korea. There is a living demonstration of green politics in Finland. The steps are moving really fast toward the collapse of the standard of living.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u158	Mr President! Last year, Parliament discussed the first annual climate report in its series. Unfortunately, the report's conclusion remains the same: the measures envisaged are not sufficient to achieve the objective of carbon neutrality. With regard to the burden-sharing sector, we see that the development of emissions from transport is at the heart of the Finnish climate policy. The report lists as many as 16 policy actions in the transport sector, including rails, biogas and muscle travel. The corona epidemic has shown that our nation will be able to take swift and effective action when the threat is tangible enough and comes close enough to man. Climate change may seem distant and vague, but it is already threatening the existence of thousands of species. The declaration of a climate emergency could bring the reality needed for the climate crisis and a reminder of what this report reveals to us: we must be able to do more. Mr President! Another of the major conclusions of the annual climate report is that effective action must be taken in every sector of society. Transport is only one part of the whole. We need a new generation of agriculture, climate-friendly housing and construction, a circular economy and precision in public procurement, without forgetting the reduction in consumption. Municipalities also play an important role in the fight against climate change — one might even say that municipalities play a key role in climate action. Municipalities must be provided with support and tools for climate work. There is also a need for courageous municipal decision-makers. From the point of view of the objective of carbon neutrality, the development of emissions trading sectors is also urgent. Emissions from manufacturing and energy production must be brought down while raising carbon sinks in the land use sector. Mr President! The Annual Climate Report therefore contains information not only on Finland’s emissions development but also on additional measures required to achieve the targets. These additional actions will be presented, inter alia, in the new energy and climate strategy and in the land use sector climate programme, which is due to be completed next year. The list of measures required is long and hundreds of thousands of tonnes of CO2 are still on the way. However, the direction is finally the right one, and the government is committed to genuine climate action. For example, next year's budget, which has been the subject of intense debate in this Chamber for the last few days, contains many good decisions towards carbon-neutral Finland. While changes are being made, we must keep everyone involved. The Greens are pushing for a fair change that includes social and territorial justice. Sustainable development must be the starting point for all decision-making, and this aspect has also been well taken into account in the annual climate report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u159	Thank you. — Then we move on to the stage of debatation. Please go to your own place and reserve the floor with the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u160	Mr President! It is good that this annual climate report is being reviewed once again. This is the second in his history. In particular, I would draw attention to the fact that we in Finland place too much emphasis on the amount of emissions in these climate issues. Emissions from our transport are about 12 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent — it may be a little more than already, but the level is correct. But if we genuinely wanted this to be done in such a way as to minimise the cost to our citizens, why do we not want to go down that road and do everything we can to resist it? By putting in place the incinerator in the marshlands, we would be able to stop the movements of nutrients a little bit in the swamp, improve forest growth, increase felling volumes, increase the workload and do not incur any unnecessary costs and, above all, make our own carbon balances genuinely fit. This continuing drive-down of livelihoods by various conservation projects will cost Finland so much that we will soon have...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u161	Mr President! This annual climate report is an important tool for Parliament, citizens and all actors in society to monitor the adequacy of climate policy in relation to the objectives set. Thanks to the Ministry of the Environment for the feedback received on the development of the annual report. The annual report tells us that the current and planned measures are not sufficient to achieve the objective of carbon neutrality. It's about 15 megatons. New emission reduction measures are therefore needed in all sectors. The annual report shows that emissions from transport and agriculture, for example, are falling far too slowly. In addition to emission reductions, carbon sinks play a key role in achieving the objective of carbon neutrality. The land use sector’s climate plan will therefore assess policy measures to strengthen net sinks. Mr President! The role of the Annual Climate Report should be further strengthened in the reform of the Climate Change Act and consolidated as a tool
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u162	Mr President! It is good that the annual report has actually been developed and it is also a pleasure to note that the emission reduction targets set during the previous Government term are being met. The Minister mentioned that not all the new decisions taken by the government have yet been taken into account. I hope that they will now make it easier to achieve these objectives. However, it is good to remember that it is precisely here that we measure the right thing, that is, how much these emissions are being reduced. And that should always be the measure of climate policy, not the amount of money spent on it. The reduction in transport emissions is still a source of concern. I myself think that three ways can be achieved: to modernise the car fleet to a lower level of emissions, to make the fuel used by existing cars a lower level of emissions — the means exist, but there could still be more — and, on the other hand, to improve access to public transport, to increase the share of public transport in urban transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u163	Mr President! When I referred to North Korea in that longer speech, I was serious. This debate and the situation that has been in this early year and in the first wave of the corona is, in fact, a bit like such an indicative demonstration of where we are going if we want to raise Finland to a climate leader: we don't care, we don't spend, we don't do much. In other words, in order for us to attain these goals, we must have reasonable consumption; we must have activities that feed this society, not those that take bread from the inhabitants, from the people’s mouth. There is a lot of talk about public procurement, and even a fact: public procurement that is not carried out, such as a construction project, is exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u164	Mr President! — I will not provoke. — — — — Indeed, in June, the Government issued a second annual report on climate change of its kind to Parliament, but it is not until today, as a result of the interest rate, until we have a referral debate. The objective of Sanna Marin's Government Programme is carbon neutral Finland 2035, and the acceptability of climate actions and actions requires that energy and climate policy should always be based on researched knowledge and reasoned assessments of the costs and overall impacts of the policy. When you read this annual climate report, it is easy to see where we have succeeded and where there is still a lot of catching up to do. Finland's emissions have decreased significantly in the emissions trading sector, as well as emissions from waste treatment and heating of buildings have been reduced, and the net sink of the land use sector has also increased in 2019, but we still have some catching up to do with emissions from agriculture and transport. As this work continues, the economy, employment and ecological impact will always be in the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u165	Mr President! The environmental crisis, which includes climate change, is the greatest challenge and challenge of our time that we will be remembered for and in which we must not fail. Regardless of what the Finns here now say or wish, this government is committed to doing these necessary and adequate climate measures in its programme. Well, then, what is enough? What is enough is that we do our part in limiting the rise in the world's average temperature to this 1.5 degree. And I would like to say to the Finns that this is also in our interest. What could be a better export product than a carbon-negative welfare state? What is central now is that the government is still deciding on these additional measures, and I am happy to press on with them. It was well pointed out here that these measures are needed, particularly as regards transport and agriculture. I'm thinking,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u166	Ärade talman, Mr President! Det är valdigt glädjande att den raus klimatårsberättelsen visar att vi har lyckats minska på utsläppen under 2019. Vi har redan gjort mycket, men för att uppnå målen till 2030 krävs förstås många åtgärder.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u167	Mr President! Public procurement should support sustainability targets, but there are currently a lot of skills gaps in the implementation of public procurement. A network-based centre of expertise for sustainable and innovative procurement (KEINO) with a wide range of expertise has been a good contribution to this promotion. The KEINO aims to promote the identification and active use of public procurement as a management tool and to help contracting entities to share transparent information about their own experiences and learn from one another. In addition, KEINO provides information on monitoring indicators. The funding allocated to the KEINO Knowledge Centre is coming to an end in spring 21. If we want to increase environmentally friendly purchases in Finland, we need to find further funding for KEINO. Unfortunately, there was no budget. Minister Mikkonen, are you sure you have further funding for KEINO?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u168	Mr President! After all, Finland is a pioneer in reducing emissions. We belong to a handful of countries in the world that have managed to reduce emissions in absolute terms. And what is the significance of Finland globally, in particular, can be the development of technology that can be exported to the world and also help those most polluting countries to do their part. Well, nuclear power is a significant Finnish climate action. When the Olkiluoto 3 reactor starts, it will increase Finland's non-emissions of electricity generation from 80% to 90% today and will also contribute to the removal of the most expensive and polluting production from the market, including in coal black Estonia and even Poland. I would like to ask the Minister for Climate Change: are you now prepared to strongly support the inclusion of nuclear power in this taxonomy of sustainable funding in the EU? In the face of industrial electrification
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u169	Mr President! The Centre's approach to climate issues is very decisive. And it is no secret that we want to make climate solutions regionally and socially just. Climate change can only be combated and only if action against climate change is approved by the public. And, of course, it is also a matter of overgeneration. For future generations, of course, there must be a good future. President! I think it is wise for the government to allocate funds, for example, to climate-wise investments in agriculture. In the coming financial period, we will therefore seek to allocate EUR 80 million to agricultural investment, which will reduce agricultural climate emissions. It is a fact that climate change is challenging domestic food production. This corona time is indeed
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u170	Mr President! Yes, sometimes it feels that we live not only in different countries, but in different balls when the representatives of the Finns are listening. It is irresponsible to turn a blind eye to knowledge and fuel fear. Thank you for the knowledge-based climate year report, it is clear. The current planned actions are not sufficient to achieve the carbon neutrality target of 2035. This time the message is given better than in the previous report. It is estimated that, despite current and planned climate action, emissions would be around 36 CO2 equivalents in 2035, i.e. megatonnes. When the carbon sink is estimated to be around 21 megatons in the same year, there is a gap in carbon neutrality of about 15 megatons.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u171	Mr President! There was a specific mention here of a way. I could say that at some point in my working life — I was involved in this myself, I was able to follow it quite closely, and in the case of public procurement, there are 35 billion of them every year, especially in a situation where we do not have money, we have no resources, we — public finances, municipalities, the state — are in very great difficulty, and if, in this situation, we start to make calls for tenders that take account, for example, of CO2 emissions separately, we add the bureaucracy, we increase the severity, we also increase the severity of the offers, we are also going to waste the money and the resources. What is being done here must have a good effect, a positive effect, our health, our well-being, the very necessary, acute activity that has been being driven down here all the time. If Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u172	Mr President! This conversation reminds me a little of such an old frog metaphor, which says that if you put a frog on a disc that you turn on, it stays there and burns itself, but if you put it on a hot plate, it leaps away. If we are thinking about climate policy, then we simply need to find ways that go beyond the administrative boundaries better. I think that this report is good in the sense that it shows where we have succeeded and where we still have a challenge. If and when the goal is carbon neutrality in 2030, transport, for example, is of great importance. At the same time, we know that we are a big country, the opportunities for public transport across Finland are very different, and at the same time we know that the transition to zero-emission mobility is not quite quick for everyone. And then we will also have to use the euro as a consultant, because it will guide our behaviour. But at the same time we should be innovative and creative and also find them as compensation
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u173	I will now give you the ten replies that have been reserved, and then we will go on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u174	Mr President! It is great to note that emissions have decreased significantly, especially in the emissions trading sector, and our net sink has also increased in 2019. An important goal for carbon-neutral Finland in 2035 is closer, but further efforts are needed. One example of the heat production sector is that, as peat declines, it is important not only to increase biomass combustion but to introduce different forms of heat production. One innovative method has been the new, even the world’s largest heat reserve in Vaasa: the old oil tank was filled with water, and it has now been preserved from 4 to 20 days of heat. On the other hand, it is also important to ensure that Finland’s handprint in climate work is seen more strongly in the world, and that is why we need investment in research and development together with industry. At best, therefore, climate action is also employment. New investors call for green, clean electricity, which is why the dismantling of barriers to offshore wind power, for example, is an important climate action.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u175	Mr President! This government's policy on climate policy does give rise to great concern in the sense that we were in financial difficulties even before the corona crisis and now we are in greater financial difficulties. For a long time, the situation has been that industrial investment is fleeing from Finland, and when investment escapes from Finland, in the long term, or even a little shorter, jobs are also leaving. Now we have seen these negotiations. When jobs leave, there will no longer be any contributors to these climate measures, and what will we do then? We're completely bare. It is unacceptable that Finland commits itself to climate action that is stricter than its competitors. At least we cannot do it more quickly than other countries in Europe. In addition, Finland is a cold country with long distances where transport and heating are needed. Our last mistake would be to give up the power of decision on forest management in Europe to the EU and agree not to accept our forests as carbon sinks. That would be the last raw material from our industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u176	Mr President! The city centre is starting to solve climate-related challenges instead of mere anointing or anti-science. It is so that Finnish farmers are climate savers. As Mr Hoskonen said, Finnish forestry is a climate saver, and the Finnish forest industry saves the climate. In this regard, the Minister raised the question of the road map for fossil-free transport. After all, the centre attaches great importance to increasing the share of biofuels in transport. For example, biogas offers great potential not only to reduce emissions but also to generate new sources of income for the regions. The share of biogas-powered cars in transport must therefore be drastically increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u177	Mr President! The Climate Year Report opens up prospects for us and provides opportunities for everyday climate policy. Emissions have decreased. We can take our expertise and technology to where they pollute the most. The Government is addressing climate-wise investments in agriculture in a solution-oriented way. Climate change will be curbed in agriculture, for example, by promoting winter cover, natural areas and diversification of farming. It is also important for food production that we keep arable land as productive as possible. Food producers are responsible people who want to develop production in an increasingly sustainable direction. This requires continuous learning, which must be entrusted to secondary education on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u178	Mr President! Climate change challenges food production, and Finland's role as a food producer is growing, while drought is increasing in major food production areas. The common concern is how to feed the growing population worldwide. Finland must take care of its own food security, and that means supporting food producers in their work so that they can make a profitable living. I would now like to ask the Minister for the Environment: are you concerned that the number of farmers in Finland is decreasing all the time, and what means would you see in relation to environmental management to promote the profitability of agriculture?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u179	Mr President! As many here have pointed out, climate change is the greatest challenge of our time. Of course, we now have other challenges, but that does not eliminate the need to be able to meet this challenge too, and Finland is doing a good job there. In fact, the reason why industrial investment may be leaving us elsewhere is not because of these measures, but because of other things, such as the fact that labour costs and taxation may be higher than those of our competitors. However, I would like to say that these objectives have an important role to play, but what is more important is the measures that are being taken to reduce emissions and, as many people here have said, the government still has work to do. However, I would like everyone to pay attention to the solutions that have been successful. For example, Vantaa Energy will give up fossil fuels in 26 C.E.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u180	Mr President! The background to this issue is that, according to the Climate Act, the Government submits this annual climate report to Parliament once a year and this annual climate report monitors the development of emissions and the implementation of medium-term climate policy, the so-called KAISU. It appears likely or readable that Finland will meet the reduction obligation for the period 2013-2020. The emission reduction measures for the period 2021 to 2030 are also designed to meet the obligation with a sufficient safety margin. As Minister Mikkonen said, it should be noted at this point that the measures already implemented and planned are not sufficient to achieve the national objective of carbon neutrality, and that is why we need to work hard. So, in this sense, this work continues and must continue to be based on the knowledge that has always been studied. When we talk about climate policy, I personally do not understand that the actions and challenges of climate policy also offer an enormous amount of new work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u181	Mr President! Regions, cities and municipalities play a major role in achieving climate objectives. According to the report on climate change, climate work in many municipalities is well under way. Many municipalities in Finland have already committed themselves to ambitious climate targets and have developed strategies and road maps to promote carbon neutrality. However, the differences between municipalities are large, and overall emissions from Finnish municipalities have not decreased as much as they would like. In order to involve all municipalities, municipal procurement expertise needs to be strengthened, and the KEINO mentioned here a couple of times has been a very good and necessary help for municipalities in this work when municipalities go ahead with this development of green procurement. The municipalities want to make progress in this work. The majority of municipalities are very positive about this, but they need help because this is a new issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u182	Mr President! Without a significant reform of the car fleet, there will be no reduction in transport emissions, because most of us Finns necessarily need a car: we need it to go to work, to manage everyday life. With such a disciplined line, transport emissions will not simply be reduced, and this fact has also been stated in the climate year report. According to the report, ‘the mediumterm climate policyplan for the transport sector The target career is well behind, the fleet of cars continues to grow old and is already the oldest in the Nordic countries. In other words, not by disciplining, but by allowing even more Finns to acquire a less-emission car — this is the line by which emissions from the transport sector can be reduced. I would like to ask the Minister why this government does not abolish the car tax,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u183	Mr President! There are a few concerns about the report: Emissions from transport finally decreased, but only slightly. In the transport sector in particular, new measures are needed to achieve the objective of halving transport emissions by 2030. The report also looked at consumption-related emissions. They're growing up. How can we best influence these? Nor must we forget the importance of the land-use sector and sinks for the whole. While reducing emissions is essential, care must also be taken to ensure that net sinks do not decrease or throw much from one year to the next. Dramatic hurling of sinks can water down Finland's carbon neutrality targets. So let's keep the level of felling planned and moderate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u184	Then Minister Mikkonen, three minutes. Let us then move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u185	Thank you for your very good comments and comments. I am delighted that the majority of this House understands that climate policy is precisely a good employment policy. The solutions that we can find and as a pioneer can be the first to offer to other countries bring us work, and our carbon footprint, and the opportunities that we can take to the world, are just as important as the fact that we reduce our own carbon footprint. There are examples of that here. For example, in Vaasa and Vantaa, solutions are being sought to replace fossil energy, and these are the solutions that are in demand in the world. At present, new jobs are being created precisely in the so-called green sectors, that is to say, in the very sectors where a solution is being sought in the fight against climate change, and in the same way, investment is going into these areas. And it is important that Finland is involved in this and that we have our own ambitious climate target to ensure that we are at the forefront. Agriculture also emerged. In agriculture, too, the solutions we use to reduce emissions are the same ones that also improve crop security, for example, and that crops are more resistant to extreme weather phenomena, which are increased by climate change. Mr Kinnunen, for example, listed good ways of doing so. There was concern about ways and means of securing their funding. This is something we are currently working on, because it is very important that these tools are provided to the municipalities, how they can promote in their own public procurement that they are low-carbon, and at the same time it is also a means of creating work in the region when, as a major supplier, the municipality can ensure that there is a demand for such solutions. This is very important. Then, too, this significance of the sinks came up. We have afforestation law with statements, support for afforestation. It's important. We must see to it that our carbon sinks grow, and it is precisely this moderate amount of felling that is the way, because now it may vary quite dramatically from year to year. Traffic just came up. We are currently preparing a road map for fossil-free transport, next spring there will be a payment and tax reform, and there is also a proposal for a scrapping premium with statements. These too are the means by which we will ensure that transport emissions are reduced. It is clear that public transport does not operate everywhere, and that is why we must also see to it that there are alternatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u186	Now we have one speech to make, and then we move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u187	Mr President! The Climate Report is an important tool for Parliament, citizens and all actors in society to monitor the adequacy of climate policy in relation to the 1.5-degree critical warming limit and the Government's 2035 carbon neutrality target. Last year we discussed the first ever report under the Climate Law. It then attracted a lot of interest and also feedback on which the report has now been improved. Now the annual climate report covers all sectors of emissions and includes a carbon neutrality review. Thank you to the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister for the Environment for a good job. Mr President! Climate work is also progressing at EU level. The European Parliament decided to increase the EU emission reduction target to 60% by 2030 compared to 90 levels. This decision was a step in the right direction and expected. The pioneering nature of European climate policy is relevant as a guide for global development. It is important that Finland strongly supports raising the level of ambition of EU climate policy and plays a leading role. The allocation of the EU Recovery Fund funds to climate-proof structural change instead of maintaining old structures will give us a unique opportunity to carry out this change in a swift and socially just way. High-level technological know-how enables Finland to be larger than its carbon handprint by promoting global emission reductions with export products. Mr President! The budget for next year will promote climate work with billions of euros. The dismantling of peat will be started, emissions trading compensation will be abolished at the turn of the year, and industrial energy taxes will be refunded during the transition period, the electrification of industry will be supported by a reduction in industrial electricity tax to the minimum level in the EU, the benefits of transport employment will be updated in the climate and energy renovations in residential buildings will be extended by EUR 40 million. However, current and planned efforts are not sufficient to achieve the objective of carbon neutrality in 2035. Mr President! According to the climate report, the need for further action to achieve carbon neutrality by 2035 is estimated at 15 megatonnes. New emission reduction measures are needed in all sectors and will be promoted in the climate and energy strategy under preparation and in the Government's mid-term debate. In addition to emission reductions, carbon sinks play a key role in achieving the objective of carbon neutrality. The land use sector’s climate plan will therefore assess new policy measures to strengthen net sinks. The Government's proposal for a new climate law will be completed next spring, and the steering effects of the Climate Act will be strengthened from now on. The law will be updated in such a way that the goal of carbon neutrality by 2035 will be realised. Mr President! A few words about traffic. Emissions from transport finally decreased, but only slightly. Transport accounts for almost 40% of the emissions from the burden-sharing sector. In the transport sector, we need new measures to achieve the objective of halving transport emissions by 2030. For the time being, the measures will rely in particular on increasing the use of biofuels and the renewal of the car fleet. It is worrying that emissions calculations do not take into account the proportion of liquid biofuels used in Finland based on palm oil distillate. The production of palm oil causes tropical deforestation and can therefore be more harmful to the climate than fossil fuels. The electrification of transport and waste-based biogas are more sustainable alternatives and, above all, mobility must be reduced and transferred to public transport and rail. For example, urban public transport needs to be supported beyond the corona crisis, so that service levels do not have to be reduced and ticket prices increased, thus making attractiveness less attractive. Mr President! The annual climate report has indeed improved from one year ago, but there is still plenty to be developed. In the context of the reform of the Climate Act, the annual climate report needs to be developed in an even more strategic direction and the adequacy of the annual decisions taken in relation to the Paris Climate Agreement and the 1.5-degree limit must be assessed. The annual climate report should be consolidated as a more accessible tool for monitoring climate policy, both for us decision-makers and for all citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u188	And now the debate and the debate are adjourned. The debate will continue in this plenary session on other points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u189	And now we will continue to deal with item 4 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u190	Mr President! Korona is a shock, but climate change is an even bigger shock. The climate annual report under discussion tells us that emissions in Finland have been brought down, while in 2018 they grew. At the same time, however, current measures do not yet achieve this objective of carbon neutrality in 2035, and it is also good to note that external emissions are not reflected in this reporting. The Left believes that Finland should be a pioneer in climate policy, and therefore, for my part, the most important message that emerges from this discussion of the climate report is that new measures are needed and needed for every sector. I personally believe that it is an important task for all of us, particularly those in the government parties, to ensure that the government honours its promise of adequate climate action, and at least the Left Alliance is very committed to this work. Mr President! More broadly, it is good to say that it is difficult to resolve the climate crisis without a broad economic analysis. The capitalist economic system produces economic inequalities directly linked to over-consumption, environmental problems and climate emissions. The environmental footprint of the rich is many times higher than that of the poor. I myself think that social justice in politics and a concrete climate policy that reduces greenhouse gas emissions are prerequisites for each other. Climate change cannot be combated without social justice and, on the other hand, human rights cannot be guaranteed if climate change gets out of hand. What is essential, then, is that, in addition to climate action, they must be seen correctly. The rich must contribute more to climate action than those on low incomes, both in us and elsewhere, and the differences between regions must be taken into account in emission reduction measures. At the same time, we need to reduce emissions and reduce inequalities, and we need and people deserve this transition to be done in a fair way. Mr President! A few separate withdrawals related to this reporting. This second published report on climate change is a very important monitoring tool. It is important that we have an instrument that enables both decision-makers and, more generally, all citizens to monitor climate policy and, in particular, whether these measures are sufficient in relation to this 1.5-degree objective. In particular, I would like to emphasise that this annual report shows that further efforts are needed in all sectors. In particular, they are needed for transport, agriculture and waste. Well, as far as transport is concerned, this road map for fossil-free transport will now be very timely and important for the conclusion of these necessary additional policies and concrete measures. I myself would like to point out here what has already happened in the previous speech that I do not see that palm oil distillate plays a large part in sustainable transport policy. On the agricultural side, too, it is essential to be able to reduce emissions. I think it makes sense to promote this transition from animal production to consumption to plant production and a plant-based diet. It is also all right to say that if we did not spend so much of the land on farm animals and their feed, we would also have much more room here for the rest of the nature and, for example, we would have more room for climate action. Well, fortunately, this food transition is already taking place, and I think that there is already quite a broad consensus on the need to reduce the consumption of animal products. In addition, it is important to note that emissions from Finland’s consumption are about 33 per cent higher than the official greenhouse gas emissions from Finland, and most of this is household consumption. So when we buy and consume products that have been produced elsewhere, these emissions are also born in another country and do not appear here. In order to ensure that this personal carbon footprint of Finns is also in line with the 1.5-degree target, I think it would be justifiable to include binding targets in the Climate Act to reduce these consumption-related emissions as well. The second point is that the annual climate report should also give an idea of the impact of state budget solutions on the achievement of climate objectives. We must be very committed to this sustainable recovery, for example the Hetemäki Group, the Sustainable Recovery Task Force and we in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy have stated that these significant measures to support employment should have no significant negative impact on climate, the use of natural resources or biodiversity. This is a very topical issue and should now be seen better. Then, at the very last moment, I would like to raise an idea which, I believe, has not yet been discussed here. It is that the climate impacts of Finnish state-owned companies should also be included in this climate reporting, so that we could better monitor the impact of owner guidance on climate emissions. Finally, I would also like to thank you for the fact that this report has indeed gone in a better direction compared to this first report we received a year ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u191	Mr President! According to the climate report, it is likely that the current greenhouse gas emission reduction targets set for 2030 will be met when the Climate Policy Plan is implemented. On the other hand, Finland's carbon neutrality by 2035 requires further efforts and more efficient current measures. In particular, there is a need for policy coherence, i.e. taking this into account in all decision-making. According to the 2019 flash estimate data, Finland's total emissions decreased by around 6 per cent last year compared with the previous year. A sectoral review shows that individual sectors are moving at different paces in terms of emission reductions: for example, emissions from waste treatment and heating of buildings have been reduced, although sectors do not have their own targets for reducing emissions, transport emissions have not decreased at the same rate as the targets set, and agricultural emissions have remained almost unchanged year after year. Mr President! This annual climate report states that the urgency of climate change adaptation measures is now becoming more pronounced as the economic losses caused by rising global warming and extreme weather and water conditions have increased. The report concerns the time before the corona pandemic, and the information it has now received must be linked to this changed situation. We in the Committee on the Future have focused on the post-corona period when we are dealing with the EU’s Green Deal programme, and there are a few ideas that are relevant to the theme under discussion. I recommend that you take a look at the reports of the Committee on the Future. A number of experts who spoke to the Committee on the Future of Europe about the Green Development Programme stressed that the economic, political and social crisis caused by the corona virus in Europe is a major threat to the implementation of the Green Development Agenda. The priorities of the EU budget may need to be modified, private money may be less available, and the political priorities of the Member States in the midst of the crisis may change. However, the main message of the experts was that investment in the green transition is also the most effective way to deal with the corona crisis. In conclusion, despite the covid-19 pandemic, the green transition is still the most important challenge for humanity and, at the same time, the greatest investment ever made by mankind. Deterioration of the environment is a driver for many other problems. Unsustainable development threatens the viability of the entire planet and therefore poses a greater threat to health and the economy than the coronavirus itself. On the other hand, in order to gain citizens' confidence, we need to ensure that the green transition means sustainable, job-creating growth and everyday well-being for Finland and supports the operating conditions and competitiveness of Finnish companies. This is also important for the political acceptability of the green transition. As we have heard here today, there is no political consensus on climate objectives in Finland. On the other hand, the strengthening of the competitiveness and skills of companies producing environmental technologies, the development of new technologies and sustainable, job-creating growth and social innovation that enhances everyday well-being are supported in one way or another by all parties involved — at least I believe so. A number of experts in the Committee on the Future saw the green transition as an important competitiveness factor in itself. For example, the circular economy is also material and energy efficiency and security of supply for critical raw materials. Similarly, digitalisation also creates material and energy efficiency while saving time and money. Renewable energy is domestic and reduces dependence on imports. At the same time, it will reduce emissions from energy production. Many non-renewable natural resources can also be replaced by renewable raw materials. Biotech technology, for example, can create alternatives to coal and fossil oil. Mr President! To sum up, success in the climate objective is also a prerequisite for Finland to succeed in international competition and it will also create new jobs for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u192	Mr President! So this conversation doesn't get all humbling, so there's a few facts. I suddenly looked online at the amount of this fight against coal that has taken place in other parts of the world. According to my information, according to the online information I have just received, 468 coal-fired power plants operate in the European Union, under construction 27. In India, 589 coal-fired power plants are currently under construction 446. In China, 2620 large coal-fired power plants are under construction in 1171. So now that we're harassing a peat contractor and turning him into a scapegoat, you might want to take a look at that scale. When we calculate Finland's carbon balance, it certainly affects our annual climate report that we only reduce emissions and imagine that by calculating emissions we will achieve Nirvana with some miracle const. That's not true. The only right way and the most profitable way for Finland's economy is for people to stay at work and not for 20 billion dollars of debt to our economy to bring an even bigger problem. The growth of forests can be increased by 15 million cubic metres, as I have said many times to you, honourable colleagues. It is the easiest job in the world to fertilize peat with ash fertilizers that are profitable forest land at the moment after drainage: about 4.5 million hectares. Then let’s leave out the one million that if someone is so heartburning, take it for 3.5 acres. At the same time, it will be able to increase the additional 15 million Mt CO2 equivalent to 15 million tonnes without any pain. The state of the water systems is improving, forest growth is increasing and the carbon balance is very positive. The same goes for the phone. After all, all possible emissions are calculated for bogs, as for peatlands, but never counts how much carbon dioxide the swamp absorbs annually from the air. In many ways it binds more than we use peat. So the balance sheet is also very high on the plus side. And the absolute fact is... Now the minister's not here. At least I'm not paying attention. I'll make sure the box hasn't gone unnoticed. — Ladies and gentlemen, I would like these carbon balances to be calculated honestly on the basis of real scientific facts. Now we have all kinds of cutters set up for forestry and we do not count on it, because it is not in use anyway. Was it not to be based on facts and on facts that really carbon is bound or that carbon is generated in the atmosphere? I suppose even in the work of this Parliament, there's still some value to the truth? When you look at traffic — transport is a very important source of emissions, each of us is guilty of it, many of them in this house — what is the guarantee that Finland does not take into use this MY diesel when it is always said that taxation cannot do this or this? Well, I'm sure we can do that. I mean, this house makes laws, you know, you can make any kind of laws here. The European Union has certain limitations, of course they are known, but we ourselves here say that it cannot be done when, because of some tax law, it is not possible. It's the law that's laid down. By using MY diesel, which is liquid bio-based diesel, we have a significant advantage: 90% of transport emissions will thus be eliminated. And if we leave out the truck traffic because it needs a little harder stuff, then at least the emissions from car traffic are off. So we have all the means to stop this nonsense. Look, in India, 589 coal-fired power stations are under construction 446. China 2623 deployed, 1171 under construction. Does one of us still think that with these tiny few peat power stations we are handling anything other than the bad conscience of some people? It's too expensive. Then, if the peat is stopped, that means that we will then stop using inferior wood chips altogether or reduce very much, because it will always need the support fuel, the alloy fuel, which will then be used to burn it effectively. The same applies to 7 to 8 million mounds of wood: it needs support fuel. If it's not peat, it's coal or oil. That's our choice. Weak chips remain in the forests, between 7 and 8 million mots are now being cut from the forests. A lot of it stays wet there to rot when it doesn't burn anymore. What happens to security of supply? You can't treat peat like you do now and then come back in five years. It's not going to work. It's impossible. We're gonna have to take care of those fields. Every year we have to keep the machines in order, the professional skills in order and, above all, manage the security of supply so that Finland does not get into trouble if it gets hurt. I don't wish it, but in a troubled world like this, you have to be prepared for it. Finally, Mr President, two more points. If we stop using peat completely, that also means that we are running out of greenhouse cultivation. Ninety per cent of greenhouse farmers in commercial gardens have said that if the peat ends in Finland, then those commercial gardens will also end. Then neither cucumber nor tomato nor other vegetables can be obtained from the country. There's no way to replace it. The same applies to dry peat on agricultural holdings. The same applies to very many other things if we like to do this. Mr President! I am sorry that I brought out these unpleasant figures, but in this debate I began to resent the unrealisticness with which the winds, the heavens and the clouds are painted but always forget the truth.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u193	Mr President! After Mr Hoskonen, it is always a pleasure to continue, especially with regard to these subjects — on the same subject! Yes, the fight against climate change is extremely important. I cannot stress it any further, and there should be no doubt about this to anyone. Finland must do its utmost in this respect, but Finland cannot do everything. We are not fit to save the world, but we can set an example in how it is done in a reasonable and sustainable way. After all, peat has become synonymous with climate change, it has little to do with everything, but peat — its production — does not destroy the environment from all sides, but also has environmental protection effects. One of the very common misconceptions is that peat production is lushing water bodies. But the truth is the opposite. This can be seen through Chernobyl. Thanks to the nuclear accident, we will be able to find a layer of water that allows us to monitor how much mud accumulates in the bottom of the water bodies. In places with peat production, mud accumulates far less, and this is because water is purified in peat production. Korona has taught us in a very tangible way how important self-sufficiency and security of supply are. We need to change our thinking on these issues completely — how can we depend on foreign and imports? In particular: Outside Ring 3, we use peat is a crucial raw material in energy production as well as in terms of security of supply and self-sufficiency. It cannot be driven down too quickly because there is no sensible raw material or method of replacing it. Replacement options can be easily identified: wood, coal, oil. Wood is used now, but not as a piece of wood, because it makes no sense. The wood must be processed for other uses. Smoking is a waste. The absurdity of coal and oil as substitutes for peat would need no further justification. Now that we have to give up peat faster than is reasonable, it will increase the use of wood enormously. This means that wood must be imported from abroad. Well, Russia just announced that wood is not being exported to Finland. Where, then, do we get enough wood? The only option will eventually be the tropics. From there should be brought, and how durable and far-sighted would this be? With regard to these raw materials, and in particular their emissions, we should also look at this through life-cycle thinking. In peat the life cycle is 100 years, in coal it is 200 million years. Viewed through life-cycle thinking, wood is much more harmful than peat. The use of peat will decrease without self-implementing control even before the ambitious goal set by the government. It is unnecessary and damaging to speed up this process, which at its worst leads to a completely out-of-control state. Peat will disappear anyway, and it will be on market terms. Emissions trading strongly steers the use of peat and its abandonment. There is absolutely no need for further guidance. Stirring away from peat too quickly also causes unsustainable damage to employment. The employment rate of peat is 4,232 working years throughout Finland. These jobs are now disappearing very quickly, and the investments made by entrepreneurs are disappearing in smoke, and these emissions are only harmful. President! A natural swamp produces methane emissions, which is 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide. The growing peat bog, on the other hand, is a greedy carbon sink. The bogs grow faster than they are used for energy production, so it is one of the few raw materials we are self-sufficient for. In addition, peat is still easy to store. I strongly believe that regional decisions and policies should be taken here too. What works in Helsinki does not work in Kite. Now that the use of peat is being cut out uncontrollably, what will happen to us with regard to the use of coal? Well, it's getting bigger. Mr President! We need to get rid of the peat in a controlled and sustainable way. At the same time, we need to develop substitute methods and methods. They don't happen all of a sudden, and they don't just snap fingers. Small nuclear power plants are certainly one option, but it requires not only those nuclear power plants but also their own infrastructure, which will take its time to build. Geothermal, yes, is one option, but it is still very much at the beginning of the learning curve. The problem with it is the rapid cooling of the holes, which is why there should be holes constantly drilling. In practice, there must be a number of substitutes for peat and other fossil fuels in the same way. There is not just such a blissful option that we can get to “nirvana” as Mr Hoskonen mentioned. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u194	Mr President! The Government's climate objectives will target citizens directly in two ways: the costs of transport, in particular motoring, will increase through fuel taxes and possible tolls; housing costs will increase through heating costs, electricity prices and district heating. Representative Hoskonen here very well highlighted the issue of peat and its effects. It affects, for example, the price of district heat and, at its worst, investments in Finland, such as the acquisition of Vapo's Ilomantsi plant or UPM's Kotka bioprocessing projects in Finland. As far as peat is concerned, the centre, Mr Hoskonen, will, of course, play an important role in this, as you will decide in the government. Another important aspect of these carbon leakages is the production of copper and nickel, for example. If they are not included in the carbon leakage list in the Compensation Act, there is a great risk that the carbon leakage will increase as the plant barrels in Finland disappear. In Europe, the carbon footprint of copper is half of the emissions generated by the production of globally produced copper. In the case of nickel, this is four or even ten times the global production. Another good example is the emissions of sulphur dioxide from the production of nickel: when, for example, the Boliden factory in Harjavalta emits about 14 kg per tonne of nickel produced, the corresponding figure in Botswana is up to 7000 kg. So how much more are we going to tighten the screw before that pipe runs out there? I hope the government will take these into account in its decisions. In other words, the Finnish pipe is indeed an eco-make. — — — — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u195	Congressman Hoskonen, please come here like this, because you're not wearing a mask.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u196	Mr President! A few more things about this coal power, as it seems to be getting rid of it like peat. Good goals as such, but it's worth being realistic. I was just online looking at the data from three international research organisations. Global Energy Monitor, Greenpeace and Sierra Club companies or such communities have studied this carbon power on a very real and serious scientific basis, and the coal power plant capacity under construction worldwide in 2018 increased by 12%. The main culprit is China — if the culprits are to be sought, China is responsible for most of the increase in the use of coal. And if anyone thinks... After all, China has promised with piety that, by 2060, I think it should be carbon neutral. How does China produce its energy, because it has a very heavy metal industry — a very heavy one — very energy-intensive industry, everything possible? Removing that coal burning is a total impossibility, and they will not have time to build nuclear power with any money so quickly. But if we take two examples of Europe. The two largest coal-fired power plants in Europe — Bełchatów the second, it is in Poland, and the name of its German power plant I can't suddenly remember, I tried to look for it just now — combined with 72 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, and it is far more than all the combined CO2 we release here in Finland, the two largest coal-fired power stations in Europe are pushing the same amount and a little more. So this is where we get a little scale for this game. When we go to peat contractors and farmers and people on land in general to blame that this is the reason why we have global warming, it is worth getting to know the facts. I do not very much like the way in which people here rejoice that there has been a great climate action, even though, in fact, a terrible accident has been done if the peat is stopped, because it is driving various energy products around the world into this country. Is it chipping? Very likely this game will win Russian oil and Russian natural gas because that's all there is. If we go from abroad, from Central Europe, from wood chips — which are wood chips taken from those regions that died last summer and the summer before — then we are taking a huge risk of forest hygiene. That risk is so shocking that Parliament must now wake up in this matter, and not by talking very softly in this house, because it will very quickly result in us doing huge damage to this nation, and after that we will be happy to go to our own place to sleep so that we can ‘fire on the good environment’. The end of peat was definitely the most CO2-making decision in this Parliament, because now we are going to use fossil fuel to drive goods around the world, and we are doing huge damage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u199	Thank you. Then just put on the mask, and this conversation is over.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u200	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. At first reading, Parliament agreed with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the rejection of the legislative proposals contained in the citizens' initiative. Parliament's statements are now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-15-ps-130.u201	Mr President! I did not have the opportunity to take part in the first reading on this issue, but I would like to say a few words in this connection, because I think this is a very important issue. In other words, although the citizens' initiative as such is not becoming adopted, the issues raised by the citizens' initiative are very serious and relevant. Fortunately, in its Government Programme, the Government is committed to reforming the Mining Act, and many policies are in line with this citizens' initiative. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy has already launched a reform of the Mining Act. A reform of the Mining Act is needed. Mines play an important role in industrial policy, but at the same time we can serve as an example of sustainable mining. The Mining Act should be reformed to reduce the environmental impact of mines, increase the decision-making power of municipalities in mining matters, for example through planning, improve the position of property owners and landowners, improve the environmental impact of the mine and take greater account of the rights of indigenous peoples. It is also necessary to examine whether a stronger guarantee procedure can be established for the proper management of environmental damage and other post-mortem work, for example in the event of bankruptcy. In accordance with the Government Programme, the permit processes, practices and possible limitations of the right to search are examined in nature conservation areas. It is important to ensure the sustainability of mining activities, respect for the environment and compliance with protection standards. Mines always have an impact on the environment, and these effects and the damage caused by mines to people living in the affected area must always be minimised, and they should always be carefully assessed and weighed as part of this authorisation process. Mr President! It is essential that sustainable mining activities are carried out in Finland in the long term, taking into account social, economic and also ecological sustainability. Future legislation must take account of all these aspects of sustainability equally. In all legislative drafting, it is important for all parties to be consulted equally and for the preparation of the law to be based on the best possible knowledge and proper follow-up and evaluation, and I believe that this mining law reform project will also be carried out. - Thank you.
