ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u1	Lists of candidates to add 15 alternate members to the Constitutional Committee and to add 9 alternates to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Administrative Committee, the Legal Committee, the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Education, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Economic Committee, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities and the Committee on the Environment shall be submitted to the Central Assembly no later than 10 a.m. on 3 April 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u2	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up. We have arranged this a little so that the ministers to whom questions are known in advance are in the box. In addition, there are other members of the Government who are able to be present. You can ask them questions, and then they answer from their own places.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u3	Questions. Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u4	Mr President! The financial impact of the interest rate situation will be great when the cash flow of businesses and self-employed is severely stalled and, at the same time, the problem is acute. This also applies to workers in these companies. Under normal circumstances, different types of aid have been distributed to companies that did not need it. Finnish work and entrepreneurship in exceptional circumstances are now being defended. Many healthy businesses will not survive if the costs run but there is no income. These companies must go beyond at least the most difficult months in order to avoid a wave of bankruptcy and dismissals. It is also important that the situation of those in difficulties is corrected — we cannot repeat the mistake of the 1990s. I ask the Minister whether the government intends to increase aid to viable SMEs and how to monitor that the measures are targeted at the right place as far as possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u5	Mr President! The representative is exactly right in the question. These are absolutely crucial issues when we look at how we move forward from this crisis, precisely through the economy and employment. In all the actions that the government is doing, the background is to maintain employment as well as possible, and businesses play a key role in this. A billion more money was spent on direct subsidies to companies, i.e. through Ely Centres and Business Finland. But, of course, the problem is that this is growing. And there has been a general sense in the government that additional budgets can be made as necessary. But it must also be borne in mind that the intention is not to expand the compensation, except for the parts of the cost compensation. In other words, if the company has fixed costs, we will try to compensate them and seek help there, but to reduce income levels.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u6	Mr President! It is indeed a difficult situation for companies. If companies go under, jobs go under, and a significant slice of the public finance base. At least it has been decided to give some support to entrepreneurs in this acute situation. However, aid has now been made conditional on the development of a business, for example, although the priority is to keep the company alive even for this difficult time. The development of activities is certainly necessary for many companies, but no new products or new markets will be acquired at a turn of events. Among other things, entrepreneurs have said that there has been a need to make up stories about digitalisation and so on in their applications in order to get support for the immediate situation. I do not think this is the intention, Minister, so I ask: do you intend to address the problems that arise as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u7	Mr President! I am well aware that both Business Finland and Ely's criteria include development-related measures. On the other hand, the guidance is that it is interpreted in a relatively broad way at the moment, and I do not necessarily mind, even if at the moment companies are also wondering what their next step will be. But I know this very well: we find many areas where it is terribly difficult for you to find an idea for development from now on, and this is a painful situation. And I guarantee and underscore that I will work every single day with the hundreds of messages that come, that we may get any of these things carried forward, but this is a difficult situation. And then all the time, you have to think about the fact that this has come extremely quickly. We do an awful good job with Ely Centres, Business Finland, Finnvera, but in a couple of weeks we have come up with such a rush that in the name of humanity we must also give them a little mercy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u8	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. When it is known in advance that all the first questions in the groups are related to the corona, in practice I will combine the supplementary questions and the actual questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u9	Mr President! In the service sector in particular, companies are in difficulty when the doors are closed for months or customers have otherwise disappeared. Hundreds of thousands of workers are under negotiation. At the same time, agriculture is facing the opposite problems when foreign seasonal workers are not available due to travel restrictions. This shows how dangerous it is to leave the sector vital to security of supply to foreign workers. We hope that lessons will be drawn from this in the long term. Mr President! It is said that it is impossible to get workers from the country of origin for agriculture, and the main reason is the lack of pay. Today, the Finns of Peru are presenting urgent temporary legislation in which the right to unemployment benefit for a person laid off or laid off as a result of an epidemic would be maintained in a situation where he accepts seasonal work that is essential for security of supply. This would also increase the attractiveness of work in the eyes of Finns without, however, increasing the costs of farmers. This would of course be an arrangement for this year. I ask the government: do you have the capacity for such a measure?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u10	Mr President! Today, we are debating a legislative proposal which will enable workers with a seasonal migrant background who have already been admitted to this country to move from one employer to another, i.e. there is no need to apply for it separately. This is indeed an acute situation in agriculture now, as around 15,000 seasonal workers have been employed on these farms. At the moment, seedlings are being planted and seedlings are being planted and so forth, so now is the stage in laying the foundation for what crop will be harvested at the end of the summer. For this reason, this reform will serve to enable those who are now working in these spring jobs to move from one employer to another and to continue working here in different jobs. Of course, it is important for the availability of the labour force to focus on the fact that information is going on job vacancies now. It will be carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, will be communicated to educational institutions, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u11	Mr President! Minister Hatainen has responded well to what is already being done, but I am very open to the ideas raised here by Mrs Halla-aho. I would also encourage other groups to bring these solutions to the table. The government takes them seriously and is happy to accept them. We are together in the face of a major crisis and a challenge. This challenge raised by Mrs Halla-aho is one, but we have many other challenges, and I am genuinely sincere about the fact that together we will also resolve this crisis, and we will take this issue raised by Mrs Halla-aho into consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u12	Mr President! This is a sad story to tell, but it's true today: I was contacted by an entrepreneur with over 50 employees and the company has been operating for about 25 years. Due to the interest rate crisis, the company’s turnover has fallen by about 80 per cent. What should they do, Your Honor? The employees have now been about 70% laid off, you have proposed a Finnvera loan, but I understand it is an expensive option and the entrepreneur is required to be guaranteed 20%. Business Finland money is one option, but it is intended for business development, while now, as the representative of the Park has mentioned, companies should stand up. Everyone understands that it is a bit challenging to develop a business at the moment. I ask you, Mr Government: have you thought about direct aid to companies and the means by which it is easy for a company to obtain it quickly?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u13	Mr President! Yes, the government has considered all possible ways and has looked at all possible areas. I can say that at the moment there are few sectors in which there is no need, so we do need those subsidies everywhere at the moment. How much room we will have for manoeuvre, I think next week's debate will be able to align a little bit, but I would say, in fact, in this case — I do not know the case, of course — that there has been a very serious appeal to all the parties involved, both the banks, the tax authorities, Finnvera and the life force: please give a broad interpretation of the situation at the moment. We are in an exceptional situation and this applies to all of us on the public administration side as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u14	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u15	Mr President! Tehy has just told us that staff are being asked to save their protective equipment and also not to comply with and act against instructions. The protective equipment supplied to HUS from the emergency storage facilities has been partially out of date, THL has reported that the lack of protection will slow the corona testing, and home care has even been instructed to use the scarf as a protective device. I ask: how is it possible for the government to say that the protective equipment situation is good? The Government’s situation picture seems to be in severe conflict with the message of the players in the field. My question is this: can you, the government, assure us that protective equipment will certainly be sufficient for the epidemic as a whole, that there will be enough protective equipment for hospitals and home care and that there will also be enough for the police in the front line? This is absolutely essential if we are to safeguard the health and life of the staff who are doing valuable work, as is the protection of patients. Many people are really worried, and I ask: is there a serious mistake similar to the one that happened at Helsinki Airport?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u16	Mr President! This same message also comes to us in the government, as Mr Sarkomaa has pointed out here: there is concern about the adequacy of these protective equipment on the ground. We have prepared for protective equipment in accordance with our current pandemic plan and have now opened these emergency reserves of the Security of Supply Centre for these protective equipment and delivered these protective equipment to all areas of special responsibility, all medical districts. We also observe this situation on a daily basis in the field. It is quite clear that health care staff are in the front line there and we want to protect them and their health. We are now constantly acquiring more of these protective equipment on the international market, but the manufacture of these protective equipment has also started here in Finland. We will do everything we can to ensure that there is enough of these protective equipment. Of course, it is also important that all over the country in the medical districts
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u17	Mr President! The concern is indeed serious, and I ask you now: can you promise that you will withdraw this instruction that home care should use your own scarf as a protective device? This has given rise to serious concern that, at this stage, the epidemic cannot be secured with adequate protective equipment for staff. The Nurses’ Association and Tehy have been seriously concerned about the lack of protective equipment, but also about very contradictory instructions. For example, there have been quite different guidelines for home care on a daily basis, and at worst Minister Kiuru gave two different instructions for home care on the same day, and this has led to a situation where the field does not know what instructions are followed. My question is: is it now to hear the voice of Tehy and the Nurses’ Association and to clarify the instructions given to the field? And I ask again: when municipalities are concerned about whether protective equipment is sufficient, when important instructions have come that every home care visit, 24-hour care, housing services
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u18	Mr President! Now, Mr Sarkomaa, it is up to Parliament to decide which is the line. The Government has a line that is that customers in home care and enhanced service housing deserve protection. This line is tough, I know it. This means that there is a crisis in the region as to whether protective equipment will be sufficient if the epidemic weeks continue this way. That is quite clear. But it is now a question of whether in Finland intensive care facilities are sufficient if we fail protection in terms of both improved service housing and home care. I have thought that protecting people's health and spirit is so important that we do it to protect these home care customers, and we must stick to it. I know we're asking a lot. Now we have to organise the field — like this representative
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u19	Mr President! It is gratifying to hear from the Prime Minister that the government is interested in the proposals of the other groups and is open to the proposals for solutions which also come from the opposition. The Coalition Party has presented solutions for the government's use to safeguard business, save jobs and protect children's and young people's rights in this crisis situation. Of these protectors: International demand is constantly growing in the same proportion as here in Finland, and there is a great deal of concern about the availability of protective equipment for all those who need it. There is also concern that the emergency storage doors have already been opened and that some of the equipment received there has already become obsolete. How does the government intend to ensure the adequacy of these equipment, and in what way is this international demand also secured here in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u20	Mr President! It must be said from the outset that our security of supply reserves are also exceptional internationally. There are no such stocks in other countries, and that is why many countries in other parts of the world are already in real trouble with these protective equipment. As we watch the news daily, we get to read how the protective equipment has run out of many countries. We still have them in emergency storage, but, as Mr Sirén said, on the international market we are constantly trying to buy more of these protective equipment in the country of origin, and this week the first load should be here. With regard to these outdated protective equipment, surgical masks, it was known that during the previous pandemic we have also been stocked with obsolete material that has been checked, tested, and examined that it is suitable for use. There's also information on the news.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u21	Both the questioners and the ministers, you have the clocks in front of you. Follow them. There's a minute limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u22	Mr President! Here, as the basic problem is that the message that comes from the field is different from what you are telling us. I believe that you have a desire to find a solution to this issue of protective equipment, but yesterday, for example, a patient from the cancer department of a university hospital told me that the staff were there without protective equipment — that is, these do not meet, and this needs to be put right. Then the second thing is this testing. It is good that the government now has a goal and a work in progress to increase the amount of testing. However, I would suggest that we take an even more ambitious approach to this. Testing is the path out of this crisis. Testing enables people who have been sick to return to work and to a normal life, and this is another path for companies to get to work and work in the workplace to continue, and to isolate people who are carriers. Now I suggest that we take a much more ambitious approach together. The private sector has a lot of unused capacity, universities have a lot of unused capacity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u23	Mr President! I assume that we will then have the same strategy, because that strategy is also a government strategy, and I saw that Mr Orpo also called for it in public. We are constantly increasing the testing capacity. Day by day, it is precisely in the direction of increasing this capacity all the time. We have identified those companies that can help and support us in the various stages of this testing process. We have also mapped out the possibility of a higher education field being involved in the voluntary work, in which Minister Kosonen has done important work. With this choice of means that we have, we can already achieve a very rapid doubling of this current capacity, which is currently 2500 per day. The problem is that we do not even take advantage of this maximum daily capacity in all medical districts and regions. In this regard, your line of action is also the line of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u24	Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u25	Mr President! I'd like to ask you a few questions about testing, too. There were 1446 confirmed cases of corona in the Finnish laboratory yesterday. The figure is not higher because there is still no exposure to the tests, no disease, not even those with fever and respiratory symptoms. In Finland, only those in hospital condition and some health professionals are still tested, although the WHO has always called for extensive testing. The carriers and vectors of the virus must be effectively captured and isolated. The fact is that there has been capacity and means in Finland, but they have not been introduced. And yes, even HUS’s daily capacity may have missed a large part even if there had been tests to be carried out. I would like to ask the minister in question: will it be possible to finally and immediately test in Finland also at the level it deserves, because, without testing, there is no real picture of the situation, and it is not possible to make the correct facts-based policies, nor to decide how long they will last?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u26	Mr President! Just like that, we need the testers at the beginning of this whole test process in the laboratories of actual diagnostics to the level that these samples can also be carried through its diagnostics, and to the other end we need a trace which then leads to isolation of the infected and quarantine of the exposed. This is the process that must take place at the level of its daily capacity, and we are constantly raising it. And since this disease we are fighting is completely new, neither in a day nor in another. This is the Finnish line that Mr Tanus was talking about here. At the moment, the minimum is that, even with the current number, all those who come from abroad must be tested, all those who are social and health care staff who have reason to suspect even a minor illness, apart from what you have just presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u27	Mr President! I have told you this week in this Chamber, and also at the information conference, that one of the challenges we are facing at the moment is that these policies that the government has adopted do not fall into the field the way it should. This is, of course, because we have in this society, for example, if we look at the management of this crisis, the health care districts, which are joint municipal authorities, and we also have municipalities as actors, we have private health care and occupational health care, which means that our social welfare and health care fields are quite fragmented. Currently, throughout Finland, the Government has not followed the guidelines. One example of this is Kela, who has again announced that offices in this capital region would be closed in a situation where people are desperately in need of solutions to their livelihoods, and the government's line has not specifically been to close down agencies and such offices that are critical to people. We now, as a government, have to shepherd this field every day,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u28	Mr President! Unfortunately, layoffs and layoffs are the daily lives of hundreds of thousands of Finns today. Among other things, the Finnish largest unemployment fund, the JRC, has warned against serious congestion and that even though they are currently trying to recruit people to dismantle their application jams, it is very possible that these unemployment applications will still be processed before Christmas. The Chancellor of Justice has pointed out last week in the General Assembly of the Government that this type of situation jeopardises the constitutional right to social security. However, these applications for unemployment benefit should be dealt with within 30 days. In what way does the government now intend to intervene in this situation, which is now seriously threatening the livelihood of hundreds of thousands of Finns and also the welfare of families? However, is it possible that, if possible in this situation, companies would continue to pay wages?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u29	Mr President! This question and concern raised by Mr Essayah is indeed relevant, and we in the government have considered it. I have also had discussions with the heads of unemployment funds this week about this situation, and together we have also tried to think about different solutions, different options, how we could make things easier not only for the funds, but also for the Kela situation, so that people who are laid off or unemployed because of this corona crisis do not face the financial concerns and problems that this causes. At the moment, we are following the situation in Kela every day, not only in the case of the bags. At the moment, there is no such peak of congestion in Kela's payment, but I am aware that it is ahead and usually comes a little behind. This is a major, acute crisis for which we are now seeking solutions together with the cashiers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u30	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u31	Mr President! On 28 March, the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, announced that the bankruptcy legislation would be amended so that it would not be possible to file for bankruptcy in a week's time. That is a good reform and it is worth noting, but this amendment to the bankruptcy law alone is not enough. We must move forward on many fronts. Suspending the bankruptcy won't help if you see the bottom of the cash register. If the company’s product, whether it is a service or a product, is in itself capable of managing the market, the company must be helped over the pit by restructuring, i.e. by settling debts. We have a good basis in the corporate restructuring law, a so-called simplified corporate restructuring, which, among other things, can leave the liquidator undefined. a simplified procedure could be established on the basis of Chapter 13. Is this possible, Minister Henrikson?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u32	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Harkilo, for this question. We in the Ministry of Justice have now put a lot of work into bringing to Parliament the kind of reforms that will contribute to the difficult, difficult situation for entrepreneurs that they are now faced with as a result of this corona crisis. Tomorrow we'll have an announcement. One aspect will be this change in bankruptcy law, which we are seeking to ensure that creditors are not able to put the company into bankruptcy only with a call for payment in a week's time, that is to say, this will now be taken out of it. We are also ready and ready to see what possible changes could be made to the corporate restructuring law, but it is now of paramount importance that we get this threat of bankruptcy out of the game field first. There's gonna be a show like that right now, but there's gonna be something else.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u33	Mr President! Our lives in the throttle of corona continue. The Pisto of Peruvian Finns raised the plight of entrepreneurs and its consequences, and Mrs Halla-aho also highlighted the situation of seasonal workers in agriculture and the presentation of the Finns of Peru. We have business name entrepreneurs, sole proprietorships, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises and a huge number of employees working in these. How to cope with this discipline will determine the future of Finns for a long time. The activities of a large number of companies are seasonal. In spring, summer and early autumn, the result will be made, and it has been heavily invested, invested in big money. Now it seems that the interest rate situation will continue at least until the summer, even autumn, so a new chance to make money can go a long way. Here are all the elements of the disaster now, so, government: have you made a longer-term plan and taken account of this seasonal income creation of entrepreneurs? This is not the time for mere borrowings and development projects. We need direct support now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u34	Mr President! This relates to the wider picture of how we can minimise this situation, where we are now. Here, every Finn can now help entrepreneurs, this country as well as himself, to follow as well as he can and know the common advice on how to slow down and prevent the corona virus. The government's battery system is that there are not only significant loan guarantees — banks need to mobilise money — so there are payment deferrals, there are tax reliefs, there is direct support for small, medium-sized, large companies, all that. And, as has been mentioned in the debate, we need to get these measures moving quickly, so we have quickly put all these measures on the roads and on the channels now, so that they will be operational immediately. It won't help us in two months or six months to do those things. If the Finns now act as instructed, we will be able to put an end to this discipline before the summer, but
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u35	Mr President! The Prime Minister's answer to the masks did sound a bit like two weeks in Helsinki Airport. I hope that this cover-face crime will not become a new airport episode now, and I hope that you will take this extremely seriously. Minister Kulmuni, an example of living life: I was contacted by a growth company, 10-15% annual growth, currently not receiving Finnvera's guarantee when the capital was negative, and the same bank. They currently employ ten people with two entrepreneurs, six programmers under the name of activity, one with a subsidised employment of about 20 hours and three with a zero-hour contract. Now they're afraid they won't even get into the support of one-five people because they don't have this one person there for 30 hours. What is your message for a company like this that can't even get to this kind of support at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u36	Mr President! To this first part of the question: Yes, I take this seriously. I take this seriously, like the whole government, and we have therefore dealt with this issue of protection very thoroughly. We currently have three supply rings — both here in Finland, both through the Security of Supply Centre and also through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as soon as possible — but we are faced with the same situation with other countries that we are not currently trading in the way we should, we are not getting goods into the country as quickly as we would like, and this is something that the Finnish Government alone cannot resolve. But we take this seriously. Of course, it is also clear that there is a different situation for us in different parts of the country. In municipalities, medical districts, their own stocks are different, not everywhere as good as they should have been. Therefore, the warehouses of the Emergency Supply Centre have also been opened and now delivered to various parts of the country, for the first time ever.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u37	In the case of two subjects, two answers were given.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u38	Mr President! Listening so quickly to Mrs Wallinheim's question: You have already said to me that this is the problem, and I have already said that these situations are coming very quickly at the moment. There is old guidance at the bottom, and today new guidance has gone to Finnvera’s side, for example, but a letter has already been sent to the Elyses that these situations are interpreted in a broad way. If there is a situation like this that I listened to quickly now, my personal advice would be to have a conversation with Ely about that situation. Whether those people are exactly its 30 hours working there must not make any difference in this situation. You have to understand it, or you have to direct it to the right place then.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u39	Mr President! We are now in the midst of a corporate survival battle. The need for direct financial support is acute. This is reflected in the fact that business Finland and Ely Centres have received 20,000 aid applications by yesterday. That is what Minister Lintilä has already referred to. However, there are now more complaints from entrepreneurs about business support applications that Business Finland is asking for further ludicrous explanations. They ask for auditor’s statements from small businesses who, according to the law, do not even have to have an auditor. There are calls for 19 consolidated accounts, which few people have. An application or a record run would have to be sufficient to obtain the subsidy. If a huge number of applications are started to be made up of absurd requests for further clarification, there will be no time to deal with them and there will be bureaucracy for entrepreneurs rather than support. What measures do you intend to take to ensure that Business Finland and the Ely Centres receive proper immediate guidance to reduce these red tape bundles? Just a letter or a broad interpretation is not enough. Minimise red tape and provide prompt support to businesses. What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u40	Mr President! I would now like to publicly express my thanks to the Business Finland organisation, which has done an extremely good job: in a very fast time, a huge number of applications through. On the other hand, I have these same feedbacks all the time, and I have not yet received any feedback that I would have viewed differently from Business Finland. In this situation, however, we must always keep the criteria in order. We cannot go completely too far into this situation. Unfortunately, I do not currently have precise figures, but very good work has been done under completely exceptional circumstances. The fact that we want certain figures, I think, is usually based on the fact that we want to look more closely at the company's finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u41	Mr President! Yes, a lot of action has been taken in the right direction, but what is at the top of the messages from businesses — which I believe Minister Lintilä knows well — is precisely the acute cash crisis of service companies and then the fact that these bureaucratic patterns are, in fact, difficult enough to find those solutions for helping the cashier as quickly as possible. In my view, now, in this situation, and the Commission has clearly given advice in that direction, for example, state aid rules should not be read like the devil's Bible, but now decisions must be taken. The same crisis exists throughout the European Union, and once the crisis is over, it will be resolved — after that. But the acute cash crisis — and I am paying particular attention now to the restaurants, tourism and cultural sectors — requires even more of these measures, such as the refund of VAT or the transfer of employer contributions entirely on the State's side, from the first day of illness away from the company's hands. This type of solution still needs to be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u42	Mr President! The representative, Mr Orpo, drew attention to this restaurant sector, where it was now hoped, through the regulation on restaurants, that the committee too would be in favour of compensation and support. These support arrangements are being considered at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. There are alternatives to weighing and we will go through them rigorously, that what can be done and what would be the best way to respond to this need. In addition, businesses, all businesses, including the catering sector and other companies, will be facilitated by the solutions already agreed by the social partners on these lay-offs, reductions and so on, which means that support should also be provided. Then, today's presentation is a proposal on unemployment security for entrepreneurs, which means that the entrepreneur must now be able to stop working — for all entrepreneurs, including freelancers and entrepreneurs in different forms — without ending their activities. This now seeks to ensure that unnecessary closures and bankruptcys are brought to an end. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u43	Congressman Nurminen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u44	Mr President! In this regard, the Minister has already highlighted the position of self-employed and freelancers, which is also very worrying at the moment. They are barbers, duds, taxi drivers, construction entrepreneurs, even your newspaper dealer may be like this. The sole entrepreneur’s livelihood is at risk because of the interest rate, and the situation has come to them completely unexpectedly. Yet we must be able to pay the bills and support the family. That is why it is great that the government has taken action quickly and has also tried to help them to overcome this difficult situation. Indeed, today the government has adopted a bill on temporary unemployment protection for self-employed workers, which is important and historic in the sense that it was obtained so quickly, and direct aid has also been decided on for these fixed costs, electricity and rents, and many others. When many people are sure to consider how and how to apply for this Question Time, would Minister Lintilä still be able to spell it out for these self-employed, how to apply for these subsidies, what is available?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u45	Mr President! I have to admit that as a business advisor, this has been a little bit of a feeling of being in the last few weeks, and that's all, of course, that's the minister's role. For the sole entrepreneur at the moment, attempts are being made to make it very simple: in the municipality, in the city of business, there is a person who will help in this situation, and they will have a criterion which can be granted to the sole entrepreneur. And now it has to be noted that this EUR 2000 aid is being used to compensate for costs. After all, on the side of unemployment benefit, they will have the possibility of some 750, provided that they do not spend EUR 2000 on their own pay. In other words, first instruction: in your own city, in your municipality's business, all the persons with the business code and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u46	Congressman Kemp.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u47	Mr President! In this Chamber, we share the concern for the health of the elderly, for the economy and for the children, which has been mentioned today. With an epidemic of interest rates, a large proportion of schoolchildren have moved to remote education. We did a digital leap in one night. In higher education institutions, the distance learning culture has been for a long time, but the remote working platforms of comprehensive school are completely new. This morning, at the Board meeting of the Finnish National Board of Education, I felt convinced that Finnish children are safe and municipalities have not been left alone in this matter. The digital leap of schools in one night was successful with the flexibility of teachers and other school staff. However, the transition to remote education has highlighted the different conditions for organising distance education in schools. From the point of view of children's learning, of course, the greatest challenge at this point is to prolong the situation. It is good that the digital skills of teachers were already addressed in the Government's top project last season and that the programme for the conversion of child and family services has been promoted. It is now essential that attention be paid to the support of parenthood when many families
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u48	Mr President! As the representative also points out, Finnish teachers, including the heads of education, principals, all teaching professionals have done a very big job in moving in Finland in a very short time, practically a day, to extraordinary teaching arrangements and distance teaching in Finnish basic education. The fact that there are differences between municipalities and that there may be differences between schools, including within schools, is understandable in view of the fact that we do not have this kind of established content in Finland as regards distance education for comprehensive school pupils. The National Board of Education has already done, continues to do and is constantly updating the content of the guidelines on what pedagogically high-quality distance education for comprehensive school pupils means, and I think that the National Board of Education is also a natural body that can collect these good practices about how different schools have met these challenges, so that teachers across Finland and in different schools can now learn from each other,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u49	Congressman Emma Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u50	Mr President! Many Finnish families now live hard weeks. The comforting news for parents is that, in the light of current knowledge, children are not at risk of coronavirus. However, children are at risk for the effects of corona interventions. Not all children have been contacted by schools. According to the police, the number of domestic violence and intimate violence has increased. Parents’ mental health and substance abuse problems are likely to increase. In many families the need for help will increase over the next few weeks. The effects of the crisis on children are often seen only with a delay. Time after the end of the restrictions will be critical. Preparedness for corrective measures must be started in good time. I would like to ask: what measures does the government intend to take to reduce the problems of child protection caused by exceptional measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u51	Mr President! The concern of the representative is shared concern. One of our main concerns in Finnish education policy even before this corona crisis has been that the family background of children has increasingly affected the learning outcomes of children, and it is quite clear that families in Finland are in very different situations, as regards the possibilities of supporting children during this distance period. It is therefore important that all Finns follow these guidelines in order to make this exceptional period as short as possible. What is now being done in the government is, on the one hand, instructing municipalities that support arrangements for both families and for learning should be in order and operate also during distance education. After all, the need for support for the learning of families and children has not disappeared with the transition to remote education, and these services must also work in this situation. In addition, we are also preparing to increase resources both in terms of learning and more broadly in support of families. There has been talk of a support package for children and young people, which will be prepared this spring, so that we can provide sufficient additional resources for the municipalities in the autumn when we return.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u52	Congressman Kivela.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u53	Mr President! The epidemic of interest has revolutionized our lives in a short time, and the situation is in many ways stressful and stressful for a very large number of people. I would now like to thank everyone who, in this situation, is able and able to stretch more than normal in order to get through this. I've been worried about the family's survival since the weekday has gone completely new. Distance learning for schoolchildren and possibly simultaneous home care for day-care-age children and the running of everyday life require a lot of extra effort not only from teachers but also from parents. Many parents are now under tremendous pressure to support the family’s well - being. In addition to caring for the family’s livelihood, distance learning and day care must be arranged at home. In this situation, I think it is important to consider how to provide preventive support for families, for all families. I would like to ask the government how we can support families in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u54	Mr President! It is well known that this is a very difficult period for Finnish families too, and on many occasions I have also thanked parents on behalf of the entire government for being able and flexible in this situation. What is also important for families to remember is that even if you live in exceptional circumstances, you can and must ask for help. Assistance is also still available, both through the care of pupils and students in schools and, for example, through the family work of municipalities. And it is extremely important that families also know that these services are available and usable. Similarly, as far as the education sector is concerned, early childhood education units are open and first- and third-graders have access to contact education if there is a family situation where their own resources are insufficient or their own working situation does not allow small children to be cared for at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u55	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u56	Ärade talman, Mr President! Krisen's batteries. Under de Senaste veckorna har vi fattat många beslut för att Hindra att viruses sprids ocontrolraat. Besluten har varit helt otyvedigt nödvändiga för att skydda manniskoliv. Men effect stormen kommer ändå lugnet. Tiden är mogen för att gå en discussion om när och hur vi avskaffar begränsningarna. På villkor kan det bull ske? Den diskussionen är inte lätt, men den måste ändå föras.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u57	Mr President! This is a very important question. The government has announced, discussed and also decided on Monday this week that we are now gathering a very broad group to plan out the way out of this crisis. Of course, one aspect here is this health perspective, precisely these indicators, which Mr Adlercreutz asked about and told us about, but also, of course, how to build a socially and economically sustainable path to society after the crisis. This work has been started. The government will report on the composition and functioning of this group later, but we have recognised that this is a big issue for society as a whole, and that is why we need a great deal of knowledge from society as a whole now to do this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u58	Mr President! Now that the government is considering supporting companies, one good tool would be bus investment. That money would not be wasted in the same way as the direct aid paid to businesses. It would also help workers to get a job. We also have highway 15 in south-eastern Finland, extension of the closures of the Saimaa Canal and the Luumäki-Imatra twin track, and such similar projects are full of countries. Would it be possible for the government to put the money collected from one year's traffic into transport projects at the moment, which, however, are likely to have to be carried out in a rather short run at a later date? In such a situation, the advantage would be that at the moment the Finnish worker would be who would do the work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u59	Mr President! I thank Mr Laakso for a very good and timely question. Now, if we look at these tools that we now have immediately, this government will add EUR 300 million to basic bus maintenance every single year. It is the money available to the Ely Centres, i.e. regional centres, and I believe that it can be mobilised at any time of the year, i.e. these asphalt works could be started immediately, if that is the case. More significant rapid action is that through the Security of Supply Centre we have already supported these necessary maritime connections with several tens of millions of euros already in order to keep freight traffic from Finland out and in Finland going. In addition, MAL agreements have been launched for the largest cities with hundreds of millions of euro worth of projects. Let us hope, of course, that these negotiations with these large cities can be started, but we hope that the additional budget in May will also include measures to promote the transport sector and road construction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u60	Mr President! The problem of interest rates affects all of us, but its effects are unevenly distributed among Finns. In Finland, domestic violence is much more common than in several other EU countries. The restriction of life currently within four walls is dangerous to many people, even life - threatening. In recent days, the newspapers have read that the police’s home - alert missions related to intimate partner violence have grown. My question is: how does the government aim to secure access to assistance for victims in exceptional circumstances when the situation of the victim and the application for assistance have become more difficult when the perpetrator is in the same premises 24/7? I also worry about the children of these families. Circumstances will be reflected in many different ways in our social work. The load of child welfare and youth work will increase as weeks progress. My question is: how has the government taken care of the capacity and carrying capacity of social care, when many municipalities have had a shortage of social workers before the epidemic?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u61	This goes to at least two ministers, but only one responds, and it is the Home Secretary, Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u62	Mr President! Thank you for the very important question. It is precisely so that the police are already reporting on the hard life there within the four walls, trying to work, trying to cope, suffering from financial difficulties, potentially increasing mental health problems. In all of this, the government is active, on the one hand, is constantly seeking additional resources for the police, and on the other hand, care is taken to ensure that shelters are constantly in use, to ensure that different helpline phones help people, and in acute situations different tsättipalvelut can also be used remotely to seek help and security — they are very important. Of course, now that we are in this exceptional situation, how we are going to build life forward must also see the prevention aspect in everything, and there the various police activities in which the police cooperate with the various authorities are very central.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u63	Mr President! When we discuss the inadequacy of protective equipment and we constantly see in the news that they are not enough for different areas, there are, and yes, there are. The Security of Supply Agency knows that too, and many others know that they are still available well. Now we just need to get to the situation and act quickly. The entrepreneur's emergency is concrete. And when we know that not only small companies have a liquidity problem but also large ones, what does the government actually do to ensure that they do not go bankrupt or into major financial difficulties because they are unable to recycle the cash? There has not yet been a concrete answer to this. There should be a cure for this. I'm sure these messages are coming to the Minister all the time. Secondly, these small businesses in particular do not get much wet about the two tonnes of aid, because the rent can actually be the two tonnes a month, for example, a barber or something else — not to mention a gym operator with thousands of euros — and it does not really warm them up. We should get something more concrete.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u64	Mr President! In this context, I appeal to all the landlords who have the opportunity to meet the tenants — thank you very much, thank you very much, and thank you very much to them, the big landlords who have come to meet the companies. Congressman Niikko is exactly right. The two tons will be very small for many, but for many it can be the money that can continue to work. How long is this going to take for the government to assess — will the following be applied for or what will be done? At first, you said that this was going to go forward. Yes, I told you a couple of weeks ago, this is coming in three waves. We are now basically in the second wave, which means that there are now bigger SMEs and so-called midcaps, which are being funded, and then the big ones. And Finnvera and I have been... We're the last one to be Minister of Finance today. The management of the banks, mainly the way the money moves — Finnvera, the banks — has met and has been agreed upon,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u65	Let's move on to item 10. Issues 4. to 9. will be discussed after the scheduled referral discussions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u66	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u67	Mr President! This is not a state of emergency, it is a question of introducing a change in EU legislation into Finnish law. The reason for this is that the EU decided in 2009 to ban the sale of seal products in the EU because seals were hunted in a very cruel way, particularly in Canada. However, there was an exception to this, which in practice makes it possible to sell the products of the traditional hunting of Inuit, indigenous people. In the past, Finland received such an exception — since the Baltic seal stock has been strengthened in recent years so that hunting is partly justified — that, in practice, when seals have been legally hunted to regulate the stock, those products have also been allowed to be sold. However, this has been challenged by the WTO Dispute Settlement Body, which stated that the only such acceptable exception is this so-called inuit exception. Instead, this so-called Finland exemption fell in the WTO, and then EU legislation was amended to comply with it, and now it is a question of bringing the same thing into force in Finnish domestic legislation. The increase in seals in the 21st century is in itself an indication that environmental protection works, namely in the 70s to 80s the Baltic Sea seals were on the brink of extinction. Much of the females were infertile due to environmental poisons. Fortunately, many actions, both domestic and international, have led to a reduction in the amount of environmental toxins in the Baltic Sea. It is a good thing for human health that fish have fewer environmental toxins than they were then at their worst, and it has also made it possible for seals to reproduce again so that they have even caused damage to fishing. As a result, especially in Finland, permits are given for catching the grey seal, and fishermen consider it essential for their livelihood. However, I would like to remind you that when you go far enough back in time, for a few generations, there were many more fish and seals in the sea than there is now. The most important thing for fishermen's livelihood is how many fish stocks are commercially exploited in the sea, and then the crucial thing is whether migratory fish can increase in their natural breeding areas. At least the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection — and I am not sure whether the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry is also the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry — whenever the annual decisions on EU fishing quotas for the Baltic Sea are discussed, it has been stated that the most important thing for these fish stocks to be strengthened would be to restore the natural breeding pathways for fish, i.e. in practice to build access routes for fish past hydroelectric power plants in the main breeding rivers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u68	Mr President! Indeed, now that we are dealing with legislation regulating this seal trade, it has nothing to do with these current exceptional circumstances, and I will be very brief in saying that we will then be able to deal with these more urgent issues. But let this now be an indication of how strong, democratically managed, the rule of law Finland is, that such legislation can also be taken forward and at least stick to the timetable that the European Union has set for us. Indeed, the committee has been unanimous in its own deliberations, and in that sense the great House can now accept with good pleasure this rather technical proposal for this law. But what Finland could, of course, try to influence is the decision-making of the EU in this matter. As Mr Hassi pointed out in his own speech in a good and diverse way, when the situation of the various species of the Baltic Sea is very much affected by the way in which man operates in the region, then the fact that man favours the activities of another species in particular by his own action can damage the balance of nature once again, where, for example, the now increasing strains of seals are violently vaccinating the endangered salmon and trout stocks of many rivers. In this sense, regulation at EU level should be allowed to change in the direction that, once the Baltic seal had the value it traditionally had as a valuable game animal in Finland, it would certainly be better to achieve the balance between the annual quota set for catches and the damage to the sustainability of fish stocks. Just this, Mr President, for the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u69	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u70	Mr President! On this too, I would just like to say briefly that we in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry have dealt with this issue, and I am sure Parliament will be happy to accept that now. This is more a technical proposal, but the committee has discussed this balance of nutrient cycles more broadly since then, which is a major issue for sustainable development, and we urgently need global solutions for them in the future. The reform of the national Fertiliser Products Act in the context of the EU Fertilisers Regulation is due to begin this year. Hopefully, after these exceptional circumstances, we will have a society ready to promote this issue as soon as possible, and it will then be important to have such sustainable solutions for the fertiliser sector that nutrients from communities, for example, will then be better used for farming purposes and will not end up being burdened, for example, by watercourses. — This too, Mr President, is very brief this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u71	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u72	Mr President! The companies were recently discussed and, of course, the impact of business situations is also coming very quickly to the municipalities. Today is the first package of municipalities to be presented. This is therefore part of — Minister My corner will soon tell you about the law relating to these measures by the Tax Administration and the interest on late payments, the fixed-term changes in the interest rate and the changes in the terms of the payment arrangements. Impact assessment: This affects municipalities and therefore, at the same time, there is a law in the presentation which would make this impact easier for municipalities or, if estimates coincide, would be prevented. This is done by inserting Article 36b the normal central government co-financing legislation of municipalities. This reduction in the tax revenues of municipalities is currently estimated to amount to EUR 547 million, of which the municipal tax is reduced by EUR 422 million, the corporation tax is estimated to be around EUR 45 million, and the property tax is estimated to account for approximately EUR 80 million. This payment would be made in the same proportion to municipalities and would be paid in connection with the normal payments of central government contributions. This would only be temporary so that, when we know that companies will be able to handle their taxes and payments then on the side of next year after this postponement, this amount would be taken away from the municipalities at that point. That is why I am already saying at this point that this is the first part that is now coming to the municipalities, and we will assess it from now on. Over the next week, hopefully, together with the municipalities and the finance minister, we will already have a plan for the next elements of the reduction in the actual income of the municipalities and, on the other hand, the facilitation of expenditure. But this EUR 547 million is in motion. My wish is for Parliament to be able to deal with this as soon as possible, so that we can have relief for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u73	Mr President! This proposal is indeed good and necessary. It is important that efforts should now be made to compensate for the worsening financial situation of municipalities in support of corporate tax payment schemes. Of course, it must be said that the impact of the corona epidemic on the local economy has multiplied in relation to the size of this proposal. After this crisis and, of course, during it, the local government finances will have to be considered from a completely new perspective, and in this respect too the government programme has already become obsolete and should indeed be carefully reviewed and rewritten. It should also be noted that the situations of municipalities vary widely. The problem of interest rate plagues other municipalities with a harder hand than others. After all, the municipalities have lived in difficult times before this corona epidemic. In many places social welfare and health care was in operation, and in many municipalities plans were made to reduce the service network of education services, for example, just before the arrival of the corona, as well as in early childhood education, as the number of children declines faster than anticipated. Here too, the situation has not been relieved at all. The fact that these effects are now being compensated for, of course, does not add anything extra, new to the municipalities, and I think that the government will certainly now have to go through its plans for the new tasks and obligations of the municipalities very carefully. These include, for example, the inclusion of nurseship in the law, which the Christian Democrats have also been working hard to promote, but then I would also like to highlight the extension of compulsory education. In this respect, especially now that we have seen the way distance education works at this early stage, it would be important for the government to quickly withdraw from this extension of compulsory education. We have children and schoolchildren who have not even been contacted by teachers during this distance education, and it is clear that once this corona crisis is over, we will have a large number of children at all levels who need special support and special education, and that should now be the focus of all the resources that could be allocated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u74	Mr President! This government proposal to change the central government shares of basic services to the extent that changes in the tax payment arrangements, as it were in advance, are certainly extremely important and necessary at the moment in that municipal field, but it must be understood that there is certainly no extra money coming to that municipality. In view of the fact that this crisis has, of course, affected the health side above all, but also the livelihoods of businesses and self-employed people, and in what way will the accumulation of tax revenue also be weakened on the municipal tax side, this crisis will indeed become very hard and deep for the finances of the municipalities as well. Of course, the municipalities have their own staff to take care of, which is now, if you think of this crisis, the most relevant staff in Finland, i.e. their expertise and their contribution to the work in this society are now long-standing. In that sense, it seems to me that all we have to do now is hope for wisdom for the government in this particular spending limits bar to think about the whole question of what is now the exit of a Finnish municipal airport in such a situation. Special attention should be paid to the fact that now that this burden is quite so hard to maintain this normal activity, it is now necessary to compromise on all excesses. Yesterday, when Mr Marin presented these exceptional measures and, as an exceptional measure, when this provision for distance education continues, I mentioned precisely the same thing that Mr Räsänen mentioned here: we should give up the new obligations, especially when the education sector itself is asking for it. In the face of these enormous pressures of change, which this transition to remote education has caused, they do not have the resources to embark on a new process of change, especially so extensive and comprehensive, which would be mandatory for all to extend their compulsory age. It must also be understood that today there are huge differences in learning between these children and there are indeed special needs for children and children and young people in need of support. Now to get back to that normal school routine must be the most important objective, and all the stakes must be placed on children and young people getting the support they need. Indeed, I thank the Minister for having quickly made these arrangements with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, for the quick and very little red tape available to the self-employed through the municipalities. The message of municipalities on the part of local economic operators is to a large extent that you continue to give the municipalities a lot of discretion in these matters, because those municipalities, the people there, especially when you go to small municipalities, the medium-sized municipalities, are very well acquainted with their local affairs, the local entrepreneurs are very well acquainted with them. Of course, in such a situation it is important that, if there are public procurement processes and others, they would now place particular emphasis on the types of criteria that could then help those companies in their own region and those in their own region. In that sense, I hope that, from the very point of view of the ministry, it will be considered that, and help the municipalities to do so, these very procurements will now be able to ensure that they can be held up in their own territory, in the interests of their own localities, without, of course, breaking the procurement law and the criteria being as they should be. Mr President! We expect that, in future additional budgets, municipalities will certainly be met with special efforts so that we can manage this Finnish municipal field, which we exceptionally produce well-being services, keep up and push over this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u75	Mr President! We do indeed have a Government proposal to the Parliament to amend the Act on the State Contribution of basic municipal services. Of course, it is important for the government to act quickly now, and in that sense I thank the Minister for Local Government that we already have this first package here. Of course, it is also true that only about an hour and a half ago have we received this government proposal publicly. I myself worked in the Administrative Committee, in the Municipal Committee, as Vice-President, and we knew this was coming, but the proposal is now in our hands and we are already having a referral debate here. Thus, in the case of municipal tax, corporation tax and property tax, certain compensations and the effect of these deferrals will be replaced, and then in euro, on that side. But what other action is the government now planning? It has been clear in the past that other measures would be taken by municipalities in the spending limits debate, and when the Minister of Local Government and the Minister of Finance are here, I would like to ask what action there is. And special medical care: Every one of us, who is a municipal decision-maker, knows that municipalities pay the costs of our special care through joint municipal boards, and now the costs of special medical care are also increasing in groups of municipalities where there are no actual cases of infection, because everyone is prepared for it, and that is, of course, important, and it is true that it must be done. For example, in Oulu, where: The City of Oulu is about half the payment for special medical care in the hospital district.The estimate now is that for the rest of the year, the City of Oulu alone will rise by approximately EUR 50 million, meaning that for the hospital district it will amount to approximately EUR 100 million in total. This EUR 50 million is more than one-and-a-half tax credits for our city, plus the fact that the city itself has calculated that for spring alone, the deductions of different tax revenues are almost another EUR 50 million, that is to say, the effect of more than three tax companies on the tax side alone. If a comparison is made, then when in Oulu, our city, this fall of ict jobs, about 5,000 jobs, quickly, in a short time, then corporate taxes fell slightly by just four tax companies, which means that the income side is almost as important as this year. Well, there's another thing. There is a need for action in the field of schools and distance education and its aspects, and they are, of course, being done by the municipalities at the moment. For example, this week many municipalities have started distributing various snack bags and others, which is very important. Children’s daily lives now have much fewer adults and fewer safety nets, and the risk is growing that the child’s or youth’s distress is not noticed or seen. That is why I am also concerned about the resources of child welfare, because it is already at this stage of the year, so that in April-May, the most important wave of child welfare will usually come to the side of child welfare. We must be able to invest in preventive services that are responsible and effective and timely for families. In fact, I would like to ask both ministers, the Minister for Local Government and the Minister for Finance: knowing that we have dealt with and will be dealing with legislative proposals and various measures in the coming weeks, such as the employer's social security systems, which have not been in our legislation in the past, can we, in this difficult situation, also give the municipalities incentives to make these impressive, preventive investments, for example, in children and young people? These financial amounts do not necessarily have to be large, but if we send out the message from this hall that there would be, for example, EUR 10 or 20 million in these municipal funds for such activities that municipalities would actually go out to pilot certain things — there are impressive results from recent periods that, when the help is invested, it will appear in child protection, and so on — and so on — would we also be able to bring the incentive from here to the municipalities? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u76	Mr President! The role of municipalities in coping with this crisis is very important, and why? Because municipalities produce most of the services that our local residents then use, from education, health care, child protection and so on, and are also the organisers of a very large number of important services. In itself, this proposal, which the government is now bringing in on a fast schedule, is very good and very welcome, but, as the Minister said in his presentation, it is certainly not enough, but more proposals are certainly coming up and they are needed. What is now a big challenge, for example in the case of growing cities, is that the most significant income is corporate tax revenue and municipal tax revenue through income tax, that is, income tax revenue generated by working people, which is now, of course, significantly diminishing in this situation. At the same time, costs increase. Few municipalities have left to lay off staff, which is certainly a good thing, because it would be desirable to have work after this crisis, and it will certainly be there for education, education, social and health care and many other important tasks. But in order to overcome this situation so that there is no need to lay off the staff, the municipalities will need direct support — and have you considered in the government that part of this support could be directed directly to the medical districts, as Mrs Talvitie also suggested? If, as it were, it is directed through municipalities, then it always goes through one roll, and knowing already that, for example, here in Uusimaa, the cost of special medical care is bound to increase significantly now, then perhaps it would also be good to consider the kind of arrangement that could directly support the hospital district without having to go around as it were through its municipality. That part of the municipality always goes according to the number of municipalities that have been managed there, and now it is perhaps unnecessary to look so closely at what the municipality's resident is, knowing that the costs themselves are increasing and that this type of support would certainly be very necessary in this situation and would also help the municipalities significantly. Well, I would also like to join these wishes expressed earlier by the representatives of Essayah and Räsänen that the government is now seriously considering what new tasks are being given to the municipalities. As we know, the economic situation of municipalities was already very challenging before this corona crisis. In fact, there was only one municipality in Finland whose local government finances were good on the farm, and that is the place we are currently in, namely Helsinki. All other municipalities [Johannes Koskinen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u77	Congressman Kivisaari. After him, the Minister has the opportunity to comment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u78	Mr President! Therefore, the Government proposes that municipalities be compensated for the full delay in tax revenue due to the interest rate situation this year. The tax revenue of municipalities is estimated to decrease temporarily by a total of EUR 547 million. That is a very significant sum. Of the sum, municipal taxes amount to EUR 422 million, corporate taxes to EUR 45 million and real estate taxes to EUR 80 million. The compensation would be paid in proportion to the distribution of municipal tax, corporation tax and property tax to municipalities in 2020. In addition, municipalities would receive interest on late payments related to the payment of taxes, which will be settled to the municipalities in accordance with the tax legislation. Thus, relief will be directed to the municipalities in 2020, well done. The Korona virus disciplines the municipal economy, but how strong it is still impossible to estimate. The duration of the exceptional circumstances and the recovery measures of the state and municipalities determine what will eventually happen to the local government finances. The municipalities are at the interface and implement decisions taken by the state. I'm sure the government still needs a welcome. Otherwise, the whole municipal court will be in crisis. Municipalities have had to close down service units, which is reflected, among other things, in the end of customer charges. However, the significant problems of municipalities are due to reduced tax revenues and growing social and health care expenditure. Social and health care expenditure will increase, in particular as a result of treatment measures and measures to prevent the spread of the virus. Here too, the importance of social reform is growing. In some of the municipal activities, the exceptional situation affects the content and method of implementation of the operation, but not necessarily the costs. For example, the teacher’s salary is, of course, the same both in local education and in distance education. The amount of expenditure is significantly influenced by the ability of the municipality to transfer staff from reduced activities to other tasks and to adjust expenditure on these activities. President! However, municipalities must be prepared for increasing uncertainty about the development of local government revenue and expenditure. I thank the government for this proposal. I know that there is a clear and clear crisis awareness of the situation in the municipalities as well. The spending limits bar will play a key role in the message to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u79	Minister Paatero, I would like to make a brief statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u80	Mr President! Yes, thank you for your support for this proposal. As has been said in many speeches, making an assessment is a little challenging at this point when we do not know how long this situation will last first with regard to exceptional circumstances and how far the effects will then extend to redundancies, lay-offs, increasing services in municipalities and others, which will then affect both expenditure and revenue. That is why it is also written in this government proposal that we ‘assess’. We get real-time information about the Tax Administration on these deferrals, but we will also assess when they come back to payment, and we will be able to change this government proposal as necessary when we see where this is going in the fall. It will then be with the amending budget here very quickly if there seems to be a need to add to this, for example. Then, to this question, what else is there and what is the timetable: we have discussions both with the hospital districts and with the municipal court, and tomorrow afternoon there will be an opportunity with a wide range of municipal courts and representatives of municipalities of different sizes of municipalities and we will hear feedback on what they think would be the best means and what is currently the most acute needs to which they come. We have left the idea — two thoughts — that municipalities should be compensated for these losses, and the other is that we go through normal arrangements: that is, increases in state subsidies, changes in the share of corporation tax, surely this direct state aid raised by Mr Multala can also be — this is what has been under discussion — and finally, that discretionary support. In other words, all are elements that we already have — so as not to burden municipalities with excessive bureaucracy, not with application procedures, not with project applications and others. This is the thinking that moves forward at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u81	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u82	And then we will continue to deal with item 11 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u83	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the law on the State's share of basic municipal services. The municipalities would be compensated for delays in municipal, corporate and real estate tax revenue due temporarily to changes in tax payment arrangements in 2020. The compensation would be paid to municipalities in proportion to the distribution of municipal tax, the division of corporation tax and the estimated real estate taxes according to the payment of the municipal tax for 2020. In plain language: the purpose of the proposal is to ease the plight of municipalities in this corona crisis. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has estimated that the corona crisis will weaken the local government finances by EUR 1.5 billion, and we can really only imagine the great financial losses that will result for municipalities as well. However, it is very important for municipalities to be able to act. These data are worrying about local government negotiations — this number of municipalities is more and more every day. The situation is very difficult, and there the workers are either at risk of layoff or even laid off. In Uusimaa, Mäntsälä is one of the municipalities that has announced the start of the negotiations. Of course, it really feels bad, and this is where it goes in my own region of Uusimaa. All in all, we have 26 municipalities, and this is where this starts – the municipalities around Finland have a long list of municipalities. Mr President! In my previous speech, I raised the issue of summer workers. A lot of young people have just heard that their own summer jobs have been cancelled this summer because companies do not have the opportunity to hire them. Here I would like the government to look at the municipal court and support that municipalities can hire these summer workers, young students to do even short jobs. You'll find a job in the municipality. Seasonal work has also been mentioned here, such as strawberry picking, gardening, farmers' work, but unfortunately, in all urban areas, this work cannot be carried out by a young person. It would therefore be very important for the municipalities to take care of it — and for the government to take care of the municipalities there as a backboard and allocate its resources to hiring workers. This is where I look at the young. Young people are currently living in a very uncertain time. Many schoolchildren and students study at a distance and reflect and reflect on the future, the direction in which they are going. There is a need for discussion and support, as well as advice and guidance on where to go. The work is such that it does clarify the gap between ears and keep matters straight. In the morning, when you go to work during summer time, it encourages, helps you to endure and also creates hope for the future. I would like the government to pay particular attention to the issue of state subsidies and these measures, and to see how the municipalities can support the fact that more and more young people will be employed in their own municipality of origin.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u84	Mr President! We have now had a number of proposals before us today which have given companies the opportunity to act more financially in a more stable way when this crisis situation has hit hard. One of the most effective means, which is also widely used internationally, is these tax deferrals. We have already spoken on the tax side of the state, and in this context there are also the effects of tax deferrals on local government finances, which are now being effectively compensated. First of all, we must thank the government for having acted very quickly, very quickly, and it is extremely valuable here, and we must register it immediately here. This compensation system now applies to all potential municipalities. Everyone is now facing difficulties in this situation, in large and small cities, in large and small rural areas. It is now a common interest to ensure the sustainability of local government finances beyond this crisis, because genuinely, genuinely, this is testing many crucial basic services. Mr President! I asked for this speech at an earlier stage of the debate. In the course of this day, these will be postponed until tonight. My intention was to comment in a few words on Mr Räsänen's speech and the speech by other Christian Democrats on the fact that, when certain difficulties arise for municipal economies in this crisis, this government's line of action should now seek to increase compulsory education. I would have debated this and said that raising the compulsory age is a structural reform which cannot be overturned by short-term economic arguments. That could have been the subject of further discussion. There is no point in going on with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u85	Mr President! The Committee on Budgets, in connection with the first additional budget this year, hastened and hastened the proposals to correct the problems of local government finances, and with commendable speed this proposal has come to the fore. That would be fairly early if the first instalment were to be paid in June, and when it compensates for tax losses that would only take place with the accounts throughout the year, this will be triggered very early in the year. But much more is needed, and it is important that this compensation for the loss of municipalities is mainly managed through the central government system. When these additional expenditures surprise all municipalities, as well as the loss of income, it must be assumed that, in the most equal way possible, they will then be replaced and facilitated through the state to maintain basic municipal services. There is a great deal of public demand for a radical change in the distribution of corporation tax and an increase in the proportion of municipalities, but that is very variable in the nature of this corporation tax, and, especially in this situation, its base is going to collapse completely in many municipalities. A more correct route is to go through these state contributions and the risk that the state is taking from year to year of extreme fluctuations in corporate tax and even in long time series. Of course, local government's own economic activity must be supported, and it must also be supported to apply for the prioritization of local government tax systems at these times. Maintaining these basic services even in difficult conditions is a major test, and it also improves the reputation and acceptability of this Finnish welfare society. Then, when you reach more normal times, you also need to watch that everyone, according to their abilities, participates in the financing of society. We now have to organise crisis packages and distribute quite massive amounts of money, and then, of course, replacing them with future solutions is a difficult matter. What is important is that the government has also already started to appoint such a Phoenix task force as to how to get out of the ashes after the corona has been eased. When you get out of here, you will then need to maintain and improve the services and the functioning of Finnish society at both municipal and national level again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u86	Mr President! Indeed, the municipalities are now making the big decisions to deal with the corona. It takes care of health care, social work, the challenge of schooling that is caused by teleworking, and the real aim is to make the everyday life of Finns as smooth as possible, to guarantee the right to health and livelihood even in the midst of the crisis. And as the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Koskinen, has pointed out, money is needed for all of this, and therefore the financial distress of the municipalities must be tackled as quickly and effectively as possible. This government proposal is only a first step. The larger package is on its way, but this already helps to resolve the difficult situations in the local government finances which, of course, existed before the crisis, but which have been deepened by this crisis. At the same time, indeed, alongside the fall in tax revenues, the need for services has increased, and that too must be recognised in this situation. From here in Parliament we have asked and called for the municipalities to continue to provide support and assistance to people, that the child or young person who is left alone should continue to receive help, for example by telephone, that no elderly person should be left without company and food during this period, and that all of this really requires that the municipalities' ability to function together be taken care of together, and this, of course, requires both these short-term measures and, above all, longer-term measures. The Phoenix package mentioned here is also important for municipalities. Looking at the budgetary plan in the longer term, we need to look for those solutions for several years, how we can move forward together and how the foundations of the welfare state can be secured in the future. It is now precisely the welfare state that is being tested, and it has been discovered that it has risen to an unpredictable value and that, in order to continue to have that buffer, it is very important to put both public finances and the local economy in order and to do so in such a long-term way that, by accident, it does not make it difficult to cope with this crisis – when we need both human support and keeping the economic wheels rolling there at the local level, while, however, that activity and entrepreneurship will then result in tax revenues and thus ensure that the welfare state in the municipalities will continue to be maintained. But this is really just the first step, and more is coming. In my view, it is important that the government has acted very quickly to introduce all possible measures to secure the local government finances, because in the end they run a lot of welfare state services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u87	Mr President! In Finland, local government finances were in crisis even before the crisis caused by the pandemic. Based on last year's financial statements, local government finances were in a worse state than they have ever been in the current statistics. Unfortunately, this is a difficult starting point for the coming years and the closest few decades of demographic change to challenge both local government finances and public finances in general in an ever-increasing way. And in this situation, this sudden economic stagnation caused by the corona pandemic and its dramatic budgetary impact will, of course, make this whole equation more challenging. It is really important that, when the welfare society is actually implemented through municipalities, the government now comes with rapid measures to support the local government economy. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has estimated that the impact of this corona pandemic and the resulting economic downturn on municipalities will immediately be the result of a one-and-a-half billion blow. And of course this situation must be resolved acutely, but when Mr Kiljunen here called for the debattisation of these structural reforms he mentioned, it would of course be a great deal of political wisdom for the government of the country to refrain from making legislative proposals such as, for example, making secondary school compulsory and, consequently, free of charge for all students, because now we have to focus on the very basics, on the things on which Finland has built the best country in the world. Let us keep the cornerstones in order, and then in the future we will be able to afford to go back and expand this service package provided by the municipalities. Mr President! As a final point, however, I would like to point out that, in the midst of this crisis, in many activities, including municipal activities, a huge digital leap has been carried out under duress, and this digital leap should also be pursued in the future in so far as it can improve productivity and the effectiveness of services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u88	Mr President! Municipalities that face and serve people and businesses every day in Finnish society and solve these problems caused by the corona are in distress. It is good that the government is looking for answers, but this proposal is not enough. The Minister here earlier described the fact that municipalities would receive over EUR 500 million in compensation for tax losses in the context of normal state contributions. The assumption is that when it is known that companies will be able to pay again next year, this amount will be taken away from the municipalities, that is, given, and vacuumed back next year. This is therefore only temporary emergency aid and does not genuinely improve the already difficult situation in the municipalities and does not in fact even cover the whole gap that is tearing up the local economy. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has estimated that the combined effect of expenditure growth and income collapse on the municipal economy would be one and a half billion negative. Therefore, a more holistic approach to support municipalities would now be needed. We expect the government to bring in in the coming weeks, in the spending limits debate and in the next proposal for an additional budget, a package of measures which will be sufficiently effective for decisions to be taken by the municipalities. Municipalities have tools to help people and businesses in everyday life in order to avoid the terrible experiences of the 1990s. Similarly, municipalities have the ability, through their investments and services, to support Finland in rebuilding. However, the municipalities do not, Helsinki may be an exception, but at the moment it is hard for its economy to do proper support measures to a sufficient extent. For the sake of people and businesses, I therefore hope that the municipalities will now be given sufficient support to make their instruments widely available for the common good, and so should the direct funding of the medical districts. It would be one of these concrete instruments that would help in this health crisis and, on the other hand, would indirectly also facilitate municipalities. Mr President, in the near future we will be publishing a rescue package for the municipalities. It is free to adopt ideas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u89	Mr President! The economic situation of municipalities has become more difficult and uncertainty about the economy is growing day by day. The Korona epidemic has led Finland to exceptional conditions that have changed everyday life in all municipalities. The situation in the municipalities was already difficult, and the corona has brought challenges many times over. Many municipalities are currently negotiating, staff are laid off and even laid off. The Government's proposal under discussion states that the new role assigned to municipalities and the tax deferrals granted to companies will result in tax losses for municipalities. According to the calculations, these losses amount to approximately EUR 550 million. This proposal will compensate municipalities for the costs of these tax deferrals. These compensations will be repaid to the State in 2021 and 2022, while companies will also be able to repay these deferred taxes retrospectively to the municipalities. It is therefore a loan-based measure which ensures that both municipalities and businesses operate over this difficult period. This proposal is also linked to support measures for other companies. Mr President! The motion must be supported. The proposal will support the ability of municipalities to cope with the cash crisis caused by the interest rate in the short term. However, the big question remains the longer-term situation. What is the situation in or after two years? We do not know how long the corona epidemic will last, how companies will eventually survive, how much unemployment will increase, what additional service needs the corona will cause for municipal services in early childhood education and education support services in schools, and whether this will increase the need for social and health services, for example, in the protection of children or the need for mental health services. All of these are relevant to the finances of municipalities. And how will tax revenue accumulate in the future? Will the tax base of municipalities fall and, at the same time, will the municipalities be required to repay tax compensation? For this reason, I hope that, when the proposal concerns loans, the situation of municipalities would be carefully assessed in 2021 and 2022, whether repayment could possibly be made at a later stage. In the worst case scenario, there may be a situation where the liquidity of the municipalities is not at the desired level. On the other hand, is it right for municipalities to have to pay the costs of the corona crisis for important services if the situation in society has not improved as desired? Mr President! I am very pleased that the Government will continue to support municipalities during the spring with a new amending budget. Decisions will be made at the latest in connection with the spending limits line. To this end, the government has consulted municipalities and hospital districts during the preparatory phase. This is very important because all the information is now needed to ensure that the actions of the Government and Parliament support the municipalities as effectively as possible. These measures must also highlight the most vulnerable care in a preventive way. Support activities provided by municipalities in schools, youth services, mental health services, wider social care and substance abuse care are central to maintaining strength even during this corona crisis. Crisis situations often bring up difficult situations under the surface, and people need to be helped in these situations, even though we have a corona crisis. We cannot repeat the mistake of the '90s in this situation. We need to do better in this crisis. When we keep everyone involved, we always do better as a society. I believe that we have all the prerequisites for this — this government and this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u90	Mr President! Siv Sandberg, a researcher in Nordic welfare policy, has once said that the municipality is a good invention, and I agree with him indeed. The municipality is the cradle of community. It is a place where democracy, at its best, is achieved extremely well. People live in a municipality, each of us, and they know the needs of people, they also know how to react to situations like situations, and the municipalities are flexible as they need to be. Up to now we have had a very difficult situation in the municipalities financially. Many municipalities have laid off. There has, you might say, been a very serious situation. In addition to that, we have the needs of old age — very many of them come here over the years and have already come. And then, of course, there is this corona. We need a lot of money now too, but we need a lot more than that. Here Mrs Kiljunen made an excellent speech on what needs are now coming: child protection needs, mental health, substance abuse care will require a great deal of effort now, including special care, and of course I hope that they will then be compensated as quickly as possible for special care, because many hospital districts are already in a liquidity situation. So, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this government proposal, which is now under discussion, is now one attempt to make the situation in the municipalities a little easier for us. Of course, we must be pleased with that, but we must remember that this is a completely mascara movement in relation to what is needed. And this, too, is a kind of loan, and we know who pays for that loan. Since these municipalities are already in so little oxygen that they are almost bankrupt, how on earth can you imagine that they would pay for it on this schedule? We need more money, and now, of course, I expect that now that the spending limits are here, there will be the package. In this regard, Mr Ikonen said that we are in a meeting to make such a presentation on how we see how the municipalities should be supported. The Coalition Party has always been a municipal party, and we will show that we are still a municipal party. We want to defend the municipalities. Of course, we also believe that structural reforms are needed, that we need the dissemination of good practice, but we also need the evaluation of tasks. I myself have been in five governments, and every single government has tried to reduce those tasks, but it has not succeeded. Yes, we must now take a spoon in a beautiful hand and really dare to do so, and surely this Parliament will help. Then we also need the courage to ensure that these new tasks are by no means given to the municipalities. Let's give it some time to get over it, at least for a while. So now, in this corona crisis and in this epidemic, it has only gone 2 cents per 100 km. Last week I said it's gone by an inch, and now it's gone by two cents. There will be a great deal of things here that we cannot even imagine yet. That is why I say that we must support the municipalities, we must support them financially, but also in such a way that the new tasks are not given, because that would be, as one might say, a real death kiss. Yes, as I said at the beginning, the municipality is a good invention. I hope that there will be other municipal parties in this Chamber than the Coalition Party. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u91	Mr President! I think we're all municipal parties here, aren't we? Indeed, the municipal court has been weak in economic terms even before the corona epidemic. The epidemic is estimated to weaken the finances of municipalities by at least EUR 1.5 billion this year. This is reflected in a survey of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, which was answered by the financial directors of the 24 largest cities. These estimates are based on the current assessment and perception of the evolution of the epidemic in each city and may therefore rise further. The economic package aimed at supporting central government municipalities is in a hurry, and it is good that it is also being prepared in a hurry for the spending limits debate. This proposal, which compensates municipalities for the delays in tax revenues resulting from corporate payment arrangements, also contributes to the reduced tax revenue of municipalities. In many municipalities, lay-offs have been postponed until the first estimated deadline of 13.4. It is important that concrete aid decisions should be confirmed before this happens in order to avoid, in large part, lay-offs in the municipal sector. In order to avoid lay-offs, it is also important to have flexibility for employees in the municipal sector to move from closed operations to support, where possible, those functions of the municipality that are overloaded. I'm sure you'll find this work in many municipalities. It is estimated that the corona virus epidemic will result in a fall of more than EUR 700 million in municipal and corporate tax revenue in cities and municipalities. The growth in social security expenditure will weaken the local government finances by at least EUR 400 million. HUS alone has estimated that the bill for municipalities is about 200 million at the moment. The decrease in payment and sales income also reduces municipalities' revenue by around EUR 200 million and other economic impacts by around EUR 100 million. The figures on the table are minimum estimates and it is indeed possible that the effects will multiply, depending on how long the epidemic will last. It is essential that the municipal sector support package takes into account the actual costs incurred in social services and the drop in tax revenue and compensation are built on the basis of the costs incurred. In addition to social security costs, a clear compensation item is a drop in income resulting from the government's recommended exemptions, such as the cancellation of early childhood education fees. Since the different regions of our country face the effects of the interest rate differently, it is extremely important to take this into account when supporting municipalities. For example, two thirds of layoffs are currently in the Uusimaa area. Mr President! It is now worthwhile supporting the finances of municipalities in order to ensure the best possible provision of basic quality services and to prevent, for example, child protection or other vulnerable people from experiencing a crisis in their lives. Otherwise, we will be paying a more expensive bill for human ills for a long time after the interest rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u92	Mr President! When a taxpayer receives more time to pay the tax in a payment arrangement, it will of course mean, from the point of view of taxpayers, such as municipalities, that taxes will be paid later, and it has been estimated that these different tax-paying arrangements will reduce the tax revenues of municipalities by a total of approximately EUR 550 million in 2020. Now the question is that, strangely enough, the current law on the State's share of basic municipal services does not allow compensation to be paid for such a temporary situation due to the delay in the tax revenues of the municipality, and that is why we are now doing this amendment of the law. The second draft amending budget for next week is intended to compensate precisely for this amount of EUR 547 million and therefore only for the impact of these tax-paying arrangements. It is clear that the local government finances are being monitored, the effects of the corona virus on the finances of the municipalities — which are not yet fully known — are being monitored all the time, and there will certainly be a need for more money for future amending budgets following that likely amending budget next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u93	Mr President! There has been a good, high-quality debate here about the situation in the municipalities. Of course, this bill also relates to the fight against the problems caused by the corona virus, and in recent weeks there has been a great deal of such proposals. As many representatives have said here, the situation in the municipalities has been very difficult even before this corona press, and it is of course clear that this will add to the severity of the situation in the municipalities as well. Where we are concerned and have considered, for example, the position of entrepreneurs and businesses, it must also be said that the role of municipalities is also extremely worrying. In this respect, this government proposal is very welcome, but of course it is quite clear that further action is needed. In this case, the eyes stick and focus on the frame line. However, the government has a clear awareness of the crisis in the municipalities, and in this light I believe that there will be more drastic measures to alleviate the plight of the municipalities in the spending limits debate. It should also be noted that municipalities also play an important role in the post-emergency period when municipalities continue to implement their services, education, education, care and care sectors and the work that is at the heart of reconstruction. This too must be borne in mind that the municipalities are in a position to do reconstruction. The municipalities must also be commended. In a difficult situation, they have made every effort to take measures in the event of exceptional circumstances and exceptional periods.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u94	Mr President! In the next few days, municipal layoffs have been criticised, for example, in the school sector. We must remember, however, that we also need the help of the state. It cannot be assumed that municipalities will necessarily be able to deal with the situation without laying off staff unless there is a fair financial response. The interest crisis has also further increased mental health problems. Crisis phones have a record number of calls, and the number of therapists is growing rapidly. After the crisis, there should be funds for these problems, and it is precisely preventive work, which is always cheaper than solving the problems that have already arisen. Municipalities need a billion-dollar package from the government already in the spending limits debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u95	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u96	Mr President! The Government will make every effort to mitigate the effects of the corona crisis on both people and businesses. In addition to other measures, the Government has decided on tax measures that can be implemented quickly. Tax deferral is a measure of this kind. This is a billion-dollar aid to companies. The Government's proposal proposes a temporary reduction to 4% of the late payment and reference rate for the taxes to be deferred. The amendment would apply to taxes due from 1 March to 31 August 2020. The time limit is linked to the escalation of financial difficulties caused by the corona virus epidemic. At the same time as the interest on late payment is temporarily reduced, The tax administration, through its own actions, facilitates the conditions for payment arrangements. Payments shall not be made until three months after the approval of the payment scheme. Normally, the batches start in a month. In the payment arrangement, the company can receive payment periods up to two years. Taxes are automatically added to the payment programme during the acute crisis, i.e. taxes due until the end of May. The situation will then be reviewed. Mr President! The legislative amendment proposed in the proposal and the changes to the payment arrangement procedure by the Tax Administration constitute a package to facilitate the difficult position of companies experiencing payment difficulties. The aim, together with other measures to support government companies, is to help companies overcome this exceptional crisis and thus avoid bankruptcy and job losses. As a result of the payment arrangement, tax revenues for 2020 will be transferred to the following years, i.e. 21 and 22. There is also a clear possibility for central government finances that tax revenues are also not available. If the payment arrangement procedure were to cover an estimated 10% of taxes, the total tax collection in 20 would be reduced by around EUR 1.4 billion. However, the impact assessments are subject to considerable uncertainty due to the exceptional nature of the situation. At present, however, some 8,000 companies have already applied for payment arrangements. The municipal tax, real estate tax and income tax income tax losses incurred by municipalities as a result of the proposal are netly compensated through the central government participation system. According to the 10% tax shift estimate, this year's compensatory tax would amount to almost EUR 550 million. Together with the Tax Administration, we will monitor very closely how the development of the amount of taxes included in the payment plan goes forward and the impact of changes on tax accounts on tax recipients.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u97	Under the current derogation system, everyone is allowed to make the usual speech, but it does not deny that the speeches can also be made for less than 3 minutes, so that everyone who has asked to speak on this list will be able to make their speeches within the allotted time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u98	Mr President! Let's try to keep that in mind. This tax deferral is certainly the easiest way for companies to get loans, as it were, and if it is true now that it is really so easy for you to call a tax official and contact one person and that is how this is going to work, then it is really great that this is the way it is going to be with taxpayers in this situation. Of course, this interest on late payments, which is now being given to this ‘loan’,is calculated at 7% of the 3% to 4%. If we look at the interest rate currently on the market, which is what it is about that bank, then it is still a high interest rate, but really, as I mentioned at the beginning, when it is so easy to obtain that loan arrangement, there is no extra borrowing charges — in that sense it is very simple if this deferral is only at the end of a telephone call — then of course it is understandable that, in some way, these arrangements also come at such a price. With these constraints I could say that I am in favour of the rest, but I will listen very carefully to what level of interest would then be the right rate for this suspensive amount. In this situation, of course, it would be extremely important for it to be as tax-payer-friendly as possible, because it is important to get those capitals from there to the State in due course. This interest rate is now the joint management of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u99	Mr President! As the Minister of Finance has pointed out, in this corona swamp and in the fact that we are going to get over this and that companies are going to have that prospect of hope, we need these swift and effective measures. Thank you for the fact that the government has now prepared this proposal, i.e. it would be possible to make various reductions from the delay rate, this delay and reference rate would be reduced to 4% on a temporary basis, and the payments would indeed be made for three months and the payment period could be up to two years. First of all, Mr President, I hope, as Mr Essayah said earlier, that the Section for the Taxation of State Resources will consider this 4% delay and reference rate, because it would be possible, in this situation, that it would also be lower in view of the fact that 4% is quite high. This government proposal points out that, for very serious reasons, such as the overall situation of a natural person or the fairness of safeguarding the continuity of business, this could also be non-interest-free. Now that we are discussing referrals, this is now a concession to the State Finance Tax Division to consider that these particularly powerful reasons are also actually such that someone will be able to use them at some point. There is one more thing, Mr President, which is not entirely related to this content of the Government's proposal 33, but I will quickly say this when the Minister for Finance is present. Not everyone is now receiving Finnvera's loans, nor are Business Finland's loans because there is still a criterion if the equity is weakened or even negative. In business, they may be situations where investment has been made in product development, investments have been made in the recent high number of new employees, there is a view that the company is growing but equity has deteriorated, or some office that has been negative has been abandoned in just this past year. Some people are also currently resorting to these so-called quick loans, but the Consumer Protection Act does not apply to corporate loans. It is now important that we should be able to find out as a matter of urgency that this consumer protection law — in which Parliament has regulated this 20% interest rate cap over the last period, and the other costs will not exceed EUR 150 — could also be extended to the business side. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u100	Mr President! Thank you to the government for bringing this proposal here as well, which is intended to contribute to making the situation as difficult as possible for businesses. We all know that, and we have certainly heard dozens or hundreds of stories, and we have seen the pain that many companies are experiencing at the moment. That is why everything we can do to make as many attempts as possible to overcome this crisis is good. This proposal will reduce the interest rate on late payments in the payment scheme, and I hope that the Committee on Finance will then consider whether this is, as it were, an adequate reduction in interest on late payments or whether it would still be possible to reduce it. Of course, it is possible that when the crisis passes and restrictions are lifted, so many companies will then be able to return to a normal career, as it were. But what is to be expected — if the old signs are as true as they are, and on the other hand almost all economists predict — is that a career of just the same growth, even a career of slow growth, will not be achieved here, but, unfortunately, the situation is different, and some of these companies, which have now laid off their employees, will go bankrupt even if they have been healthy. Here in Question Time, there were a lot of questions about these subsidies that companies can apply for, and on the government's side it was assured that they can now, as it were, be granted with lighter treatment and perhaps also with criteria. Nevertheless, it seems that there are still many entrepreneurs who do not believe that anything is going to be received there, or who have already submitted their application a long time ago, but have not received any reply. I believe and have also heard that the pace of processing is tough and a lot of decisions are being taken, but here we have to consider: would it be possible to increase the number of handlers and to provide resources to ensure that processing times are as short as possible, because for many companies it is not just about taxes, of course, but about all the other charges and costs that should be brought as close as possible to zero as quickly as possible, as long as the revenue side has been at zero for a long time? If we do not succeed in doing this or in obtaining support to cope with this acute cash crisis, then, unfortunately, there are not many options left. I am sure everyone understands that companies are very important to us in creating jobs and, of course, in this society as well, so surely the government will do everything in its power to get as many healthy attempts as possible out of this crisis as far as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u101	Mr President! This is one of the measures that is now being taken quickly, quickly, to help entrepreneurs in difficulty. It is very important, as has been said many times here. I thought it was important in the past that this billion-dollar package and all came quickly. It is important that today this proposal on unemployment benefit is on the table elsewhere, and it is also important that certain facilitations and deferrals relating to these payments and taxes have been decided upon. This is an important proposal for this delay in payment arrangements and, of course, it is also a good thing that, at the same time as this legislative change is being made, the Tax Government has already announced its own flexible measures in relation to this payment system, and I believe that this whole package will also be achieved quickly and quickly on behalf of this House. President! I think it is important to see that this is, in a way, going backwards, i.e. it will apply to taxes from the beginning of March and then end there until the end of August. After all, although there are a billion of these tax losses — estimated at just over 700 million for the state and 500 for the municipalities this year — this is a suspensive measure, which is the right one at this stage. It was also important, of course, for the government's decision to compensate municipalities for this. These are all important. But it is indeed a good thing that this is also the way to get to grips with the acute, fierce situation of entrepreneurs in general. This in itself, President-in-Office, may also have positive economic effects, and, as has been said, if it can prevent bankruptcy and facilitate temporary payment difficulties, then it will have a very positive effect overall. President! The Tax Division will certainly deal with this in a timely manner, but with the views of experts. I believe that the government has had some justification for this level of interest. We will, of course, go over the points of view that are relevant here, and this will, of course, be dealt with properly in our tax section in the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u102	Mr President! In these corona rescue packages throughout Europe, it is precisely these tax recipients, the state and the public sector, deferrals of payments, tax transfers that have been one of the basic elements. They make up the largest billions of dollars, with which immediate efforts are being made to target aid. For this, the government deserves to be commended for the swiftness of such a proposal, along with the compensation package in the municipalities. That estimate is very accurate in relation to how many assumptions there are behind it. Obviously, it would be more correct to say that it is from half a billion to one billion, and it can also pass by, depending on how businesses behave and how deep this whole crisis will become. In this context, it is also useful to encourage the government to address other interest rates more broadly. In this exceptional situation of at least the next six months, these various statutory interest rates and interest rates should be very strict, but should also, in part, permanently reduce, for example, recovery costs and interest rates, as well as recovery costs, their allocation to debtors and interest on late payments. It could have this type of fixed-term, very radical cut in interest rates, and could be reduced on a permanent basis. In our case, the Emergency Act even allows for such fixed-term interest rate regulation, which could be well-founded in this situation, where the immediate situation of companies and other debtors would be facilitated in a difficult crisis. This goes further to the Ministry of Justice, but there are also various points on the tax side where, in the case of these large taxes, VAT and these excise duties, it is considered that what could be done there to facilitate the situation over the next six months.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u103	Mr President! Companies are currently in enormous difficulties and distress, and it is very important that no healthy company should go bankrupt as a result of this corona crisis. That is why I thank the government for this proposal and for these other proposals relating to this package. Briefly, Mr President, two comments: firstly, let us hope, for businesses and entrepreneurs, that these various forms of relief are behind the lowest possible bureaucracy, so that they can be easily used and applied for. Then the second question in this connection is, yes, what is the right level of interest. This is the 4% delay and reference rate, but could it be lower? I would therefore like the Minister here to explain why this level has been chosen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u104	Mr President! I wanted to take this opportunity to say thank you to the government for the speed with which these issues have been tackled and for identifying the problems facing the business sector in this payment crisis that they have encountered. Naturally, it is natural to intervene in this by postponing these tax payments. Here are two government performances now in a row, which are sisters to each other. What we were discussing a moment ago was a reduction in the tax revenues of the municipalities, because it is also there that companies are allowed to postpone taxes, and now it is a matter of the State and that even a significant level, up to two years, can be extended for payment periods relating to taxes. Some of the representatives here had slightly updated that we only had a very short time to prepare for these referrals when we only got these papers in our hands just a moment before this referral debate, but, in fact, when we are in such a crisis and here we have to thank for this speed, one of the sufferings at that speed is that these papers come to us at the very last minute. However, we have already been able to monitor to some extent what is coming up here, so that these are not entirely surprising, but Parliament is also being flexible here. We are now taking these papers as quickly as possible and trying to bring this debate to an end as quickly as possible. With respect to the President, I shall end here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u105	Mr Kiljunen's criticism of the timetable also came up very strongly in the Council of Presidents, but we have come to the conclusion that, due to the situation, these will be included in the referral debate at the same sitting, and I hope that, according to this timetable, the representatives will be able to go through the motions of interest to themselves. — Representatives of Juvonen and Laakso and then Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u106	Mr President! First of all, I want to thank the government and Prime Minister Sanna Marin. We had a conversation just now in Question Time. At the time, I did not get the opportunity to thank you, but indeed thank you for hearing the presentation made by the Chairman of the Finnish People's Party, Jussi Halla-aho, in relation to seasonal work and the fact that a person who has been laid off or laid off at the moment could be involved in these tasks without losing unemployment benefits. It is a very good thing that the opposition can make proposals and that the government listens to them. That is also an important message for us here in the opposition. Mr President! We're really on this horse.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u109	Mr President! The first thing I have to say to Mr Kiljunen is that it's great to be complimented. Of course, once upon a time your compliment is...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u112	Mr President! Thank you for a good referral debate. And indeed, this presentation has been written quickly. We are in exceptional circumstances, which is why it has come so quickly to your table as well, and I am, of course, sorry, but there is a similar list of other proposals coming up. In such a situation, everyone must be able to move things forward quickly. There are questions here about this interest rate for delay, and we have also followed it very closely in other countries. This is an estimate of what will be the effect of this tax loss, of how many companies are seeking to do so. We don't know, so it's an estimate. And when we compared Sweden to a similar performance, we have this much wider: For us, this applies to all tax types. We have much longer payment time. In Sweden it was very much more categorical. This interest comes from the fact that it is also my job to ensure that the state does not fall into an acute liquidity problem, because that is also possible. We are taking a two-digit debt this year, and yet I also have to make sure that we have money to put in all the important points that now need to be dealt with in terms of this corona virus. And, of course, this is also intended to target those companies that are really in need. We now have some information about the fact that large companies, which are able to make applications, are also looking for them, in anticipation, in advance, and then perhaps small companies, which do not know all these mechanisms and do not know how to apply for them, are not even actually looking for the opportunities that the government has now offered them. But it is behind this interest rate that it should be targeted specifically at those companies which are now acutely affected by this exceptional situation. In Sweden, the corresponding interest rate is more than 6%. And perhaps finally, I can say that the Tax Administration will do everything in its power to try to make the process very fast and flexible with a telephone call, or the MyTax service will be able to handle it so that there is no need to visit it at all. And all the good flexibility mechanisms that have already been in place — for example, with regard to the particularly heavy reasons that have been raised here — are also in the current legislation and, of course, here too. And I hope that entrepreneurs will now also actively take action, reduce the amount of advance taxes and use all the flexibility that is now being offered. And of course I am open to all the fast ideas, ideas that can easily be taken away from our tax system. But this is what we will get there the fastest of all, if the Parliament so allows.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u113	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u114	Mr President! When the Council of State, in cooperation with the President of the Republic, stated that Finland was in exceptional circumstances because of the corona virus situation, this also means, of course, that as a result of exceptional circumstances, business opportunities have decreased. Of course, the international effects of the Corona virus epidemic on trade and so on have been seen in the economy. Similarly, restrictive measures are reflected in companies and in the fact that customers and consumers have responded to this risk of disease in such a way that they have been excluded from restaurants and services and, of course, as a deterioration in the conditions under which companies operate, especially in the service sector. We have therefore had to consider and the government has also identified the need to ensure social security for entrepreneurs in this situation. Therefore, the government has prepared for my action and I am now presenting a temporary change in the unemployment security of entrepreneurs. This change now applies to all companies. In the past, freelance entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs have been strongly represented in the debate. This reform applies to all entrepreneurs. This law would be in force until the end of June and should enter into force as soon as Parliament can get it through, hopefully next week. Thus, during the temporary change, the entrepreneurs would be paid labour market support and paid by the Social Insurance Institution to which the State allocates this funding. Labour market support to entrepreneurs would not be subject to waiting time, need-tested and partial labour market support provisions. This labour market support would require the full-time employment of the entrepreneur to be completed or alternatively the income from business activities to be less than approximately EUR 1100 — an exact figure of EUR 1089 67 cents per month. This is for everyone who works as an entrepreneur, that is, for everyone who works as an entrepreneur in this company. Why is this amount so exact? This is because in previous cases a sum of EUR 1000 has been used and has now been revised by the index here. This has given rise to a mechanism which will now also work here. The end of this full-time work or the reduction in income must be due to a very widespread serious infectious disease, i.e. in this case it is an epidemic of coronavirus. What is essential now is that this labour market support does not require the cessation of business, which has so far been a condition for entrepreneurs, i.e. there is no need to stop entrepreneurship. What, then, should an entrepreneur do in practice in such a situation? He must contact the Employment and Economic Development Office to apply for this unemployment benefit. Thus, the TE Office recognises this end of full-time work due to the corona virus epidemic and is carried out on the basis of a self-declaration by the entrepreneur. What, then, is required of an entrepreneur? In this situation, it is not necessary to apply for full-time employment. The Employment and Economic Development Office would not determine the conditions for receiving a benefit in respect of employment other than employment and employment in its own work. In addition, the impact of studying and the requirement to apply for education for a young person under 25 would not be clarified. This has been designed to make this process quick enough to react quickly enough to this fixed-term period. The provisions of the Unemployment Security Act on refusal to work and on non-compliance with an employment plan or a replacement plan and service would not be investigated. Instead, if the entrepreneur refused to provide him with the work specifically provided for by the employer, then the provisions of the Unemployment Protection Act on refusal of employment — i.e., if a job is individually offered, then it will normally be treated as a possible refusal to work. However, it is highly unlikely that the employment and economic development offices will be able to provide an obligatory service or offer job offers in order to qualify for unemployment benefit, and therefore the need to find out about this service or job will be meaningless in practice. With this change in the fixed-term unemployment security law proposed by the government, we want to secure the livelihood of the entrepreneur due to the sudden and unexpected decline in demand caused by the corona virus epidemic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u115	Mr President! The government's proposal for a law on the temporary organisation of the right to unemployment security for entrepreneurs is indeed very important in this economic shock and certainly one lifeline for entrepreneurs over this difficult period. As stated in that minister's presentation, the Unemployment Protection Act is being proposed for a temporary amendment, and in that respect this will be able to react quickly now to this acute situation of entrepreneurs, and it is worth thanking the government for its promptness. That income limit, which the Minister said was EUR 1089 and 67 cents on top, shows that this has been a matter of urgency. There are really good elements here. In normal circumstances, the full-time entrepreneur is entitled to unemployment benefit as a rule only when he ceases his own business activity, and now this crucial clause has been taken care of. That's a good thing. Similarly, these guidelines on how to get an entrepreneur to this advantage should now be communicated as quickly as possible, because there will also be questions for parliamentarians on this issue at all times. Mr President! Among the first entrepreneurs, the Coalition Party presented a very similar model that the government is now presenting to Parliament. It is therefore to be welcomed that the ideas of the opposition have also been heard, and since the debate has been ongoing on the fact that this epidemic is a joint project between the government and the opposition, it is now tangible. One element is also that unemployment benefit can be obtained retroactively here, i.e. if the sole entrepreneur left work immediately on 16 March, when exceptional circumstances were established, it is now possible to obtain unemployment benefit retrospectively. The proposal anticipates that some 70,000 entrepreneurs would receive monthly support, and the total amount of this is approximately EUR 160 million for the State. However, it is aptly stated that, even without change, the increase in benefit expenditure could be similar when entrepreneurs had to stop their business activities, and the change now proposed will enable business to be maintained beyond the crisis. To conclude, a few more specific questions about this reasoned proposal: does this safeguard part of EUR 300 also apply to an entrepreneur who receives labour market support? Is it also possible for an entrepreneur to obtain an adjusted unemployment benefit, i.e. that earning additional income will only cut off part of the aid? Isn't that right, but this is the kind of question that was brought to me just now. The unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs will continue until the end of June, while the proposal for laid-off workers will continue until the end of July. Why is this built like this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u116	Mr President! We have tens of thousands of entrepreneurs whose livelihoods have collapsed as a result of the corona crisis, and this has particularly affected business activities involving close contact with customers, such as clothing dealers, barbers, hairdressers, beauty professionals or sports entrepreneurs. It is excellent that we now have this proposal, which will enable these people who have lost their income without having to stop doing business, because it is, of course, desirable that, as soon as we get past this, these same entrepreneurs should continue to do so. When this decision concerns both the Employment and Economic Development Office and the Social Insurance Institution — so that the Employment and Economic Development Office gives this opinion and the Social Insurance Institution then gives this decision on labour market support and acts as a payer — it is important that these authorities are now also under considerable pressure to be able to act and quickly to fulfil these tasks and obligations, especially when this legislation applies for a very limited period of time, i.e. to be paid back to 16 March and until 30 June, which is, however, a very short period of time when people will have to cope when their own entrepreneurial incomes have collapsed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u117	Mr President! This possibility for entrepreneurs to be covered by unemployment benefit is indeed a very welcome proposal and indeed an important one in this situation, especially the very point where this business is not required to end, which is now an exception to what we are usually used to. In that sense, this makes it possible for a company, if one could say, to overcome the valley of death — hopefully not so much concrete — then in that sense it would be possible to continue its business. In this way, however, the entrepreneur will be able to secure the livelihood of his own and his family. After all, we now have a wide range of subsidies aimed, for example, at meeting these variable costs, and you also have fixed costs, which are there for business, but this is specifically aimed at providing for itself. These amounts, which the Minister mentioned here, seem quite reasonable in themselves, although today, indeed, many of these small entrepreneurs, even the normal self-employed, may indeed have very low incomes and almost EUR 1000 and EUR 1200. I recall that recently there was a study in which the majority of these self-employed were extremely low incomes. This law is, of course, fixed-term, but now that we are about to begin this work of the Committee on Social Security Reform, in which I am allowed to participate from my own party, I would in some way think that we have opened a little gate here which I hope will then be continued in this committee work and wonder whether this type of support could also be possible in the future for these entrepreneurs with the lowest entrepreneurial income. We have made arrangements for the daily allowance, but there is some bureaucracy and battle in applying for it and in those conditions. Many entrepreneurs have said that it is very difficult to get the entrepreneurial income at the same time or, for example, seasonally, and then the adjusted daily allowance, that it is quite savovova. In that sense, we must hope if it is possible to consider in the future that this type of unemployment benefit would then also be possible for these entrepreneurs. Indeed, I hope that Parliament will deal with this quickly and that it will be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u118	Mr President! Thank you to the government for this very much awaited presentation. Many entrepreneurs' incomes ceased long before these restrictive measures began, when people started talking about avoiding close contact and avoiding hobby activities, and gathering should be avoided at all. This will certainly be a big help for many, especially for small entrepreneurs, in securing daily livelihoods over this crisis, but when you talk about even a little bigger companies, the rent costs of many people alone are already tens of thousands of euros a month, and in that case unemployment security of a few hundred euros is important, but it is not that business activity over the crisis. Of course, this puzzle is made up of many different pieces, and this is now one part of the puzzle, and a very important and good one, and thank you for this performance. However, I would now like to raise one point which could perhaps have been replaced in this context, and I have sent a message to Mr Kosonen about this. A professional group which currently does not necessarily receive any wage income or any unemployment benefit is a professional athlete. Unemployment benefit for professional athletes is very much non-existent due to a number of factors: Unemployment funds usually do not take them as members. Secondly, when you are, as it were, unemployed, you must continue to practice, as it were, in order to carry on doing your job, and then it may be impossible to take any other job, at least on a full-time basis. However, income ends if, for example, the Society loses its ability to pay or does not have a contract for a longer period. After all, many sports clubs are now in very, very serious difficulties with their own economy, when there is virtually no activity and all ticket revenues and operating fees are currently largely frozen. Would it be possible, at the time of the committee debate, for this proposal to be brought forward on a fixed-term basis so that those who are engaged in a professional activity who are not currently unemployed but who are not paid, could also be eligible for unemployment allowance? This, of course, is not necessarily the most appropriate solution in the long term, but it might even be that this is the easiest way for them to take care of this unemployment benefit, too, because this is not a question of earnings-related daily allowance, but of basic unemployment security, which is for all those who now register as unemployed job seekers, provided that these job-seeking and job-receiving obligations are fulfilled. However, it may still have to be pointed out that, in many cases, the challenge is that, when an athlete is willing to take up a job and count on taking up a job, even in our offices there may not always be much understanding of the type of professional group that professional athletes are. I would now like to ask the Minister to consider whether this proposal could be supplemented during committee proceedings.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u119	Mr President! I share the thanks that have been expressed to the government for this proposal. Many people are concerned not only with their own business but also with the livelihood of their family, and, as we know, the company's difficulties are not only for the entrepreneur but ultimately for all of us, for society as a whole. In addition to the loan money, entrepreneurs have needed direct subsidies, and the government has come up with them. This can also be regarded as direct aid which the company does not have to repay. In the end, we will all pay a bill to resolve the corona crisis in the future, and I hope that we will also have solidarity and a shared vision and constructive cooperation to make decisions that will help us to move forward. This government proposal is indeed excellent and has already received considerable praise and positive feedback from outside the Parliament House. However, I would like to draw attention to one point here. This proposal states that this temporary unemployment benefit is linked to the payment of labour market support without an increase in the number of children. This is justified by the fact that the benefit would then be the same for all entrepreneurs and would facilitate implementation in Kela. Perhaps the Minister of Labour can say, so I ask you how much work would be required to pay for a child raise in this situation, according to estimates, for Kela. In my opinion, it could also be quite reasonable to take account of the increase in the number of children and to include them in labour market support, because we know that, in this situation in particular, families with children are in a very tight position. I hope that, if possible, this child increase in this unemployment benefit will now be included.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u120	Mr President! Thank you for this bill, too. This may be a bridge over a dark stream for the entrepreneur who is currently wondering how he is doing. This bill would allow labour market support to be paid in full-time to a person employed as an entrepreneur whose full-time employment in the company would be considered to have ended and would be caused by a very widespread serious infectious disease. There are so many contacts. They come from carers, but they also come from entrepreneurs and, in particular, small entrepreneurs. The questions have been as follows: What's my social security? How am I gonna get through this? In that sense, it is very good that the government, at a fast pace, is taking this proposal forward, among other things. In this proposal, therefore, it is a labour market subsidy paid by Kela to an entrepreneur whose activities have been paralysed. It is the money allocated by the State and there is no waiting time and no need to consider the aid. So they sound like things that are so-called light bureaucracy. There the entrepreneur will not have to fight for his rights, but he will get quick and easy help for himself. Mr President! It is also a good thing that this proposal does not require the cessation of business. American businessman Thomas Edison has stated: the surest way to succeed is to try again. And this is certainly how it is that, when this corona crisis may be overcome, entrepreneurs will continue to stand up and do everything they can to restart their business. This law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible and would be in force until 30 June 2020. So suddenly, there would be a time when it would come to an end. We do not know what is going to happen with the corona and how long this crisis will put us to the test. Personally, I think it will be until the end of the year before everything settles in Finland. This is a really long, challenging period that we are living in. I ask you, Minister: So what? Is it possible that the law will be extended? And then also the support, advice and assistance for the entrepreneur, who may be there at the end of June, thinks that I am going to start this business again: in what way will such support and assistance be available to the entrepreneur? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u121	Mr President! The current crisis has caused sleepless nights and feelings of despair to countless entrepreneurs. At the moment, many people are wondering how he is doing in a situation where customers have disappeared or where sales are minimal if there is any. I'm worried about these people behind small businesses. The interest rate crisis is not a normal risk for entrepreneurs. None of them could have prepared for this. These entrepreneurs don't have time to wait weeks. They need to get some bread on their table and pay the bills right now. They're hairdressers, cosmetologists, masseuses, cleaners, bakers, taxi drivers and stone-foot merchants. My own friends, too, find members of every professional group I mentioned above, and in some cases all the work has been done. Some of the phones are still ringing, but it's ringing because the customer wants to cancel the appointment. A friend of mine just yesterday said that every sound on the phone makes me startle and make me wish it wasn't just a cancellation. His wish is that 20 years of entrepreneurship do not end in bankruptcy. My other friend, on the other hand, said he was losing everything. Mr President! This situation has forced us to urgently develop various types of support measures for the business field, and it has been very comforting to note here too the extent to which the importance of entrepreneurs has been recognised in this Chamber in recent days. However, our business field includes a wide variety of companies and a wide range of companies, which require a variety of targeted measures to help them. One of the trends of this millennium has been the strong growth of sole entrepreneurship, and according to Finnish Entrepreneurs estimates there are already some 182,000 sole entrepreneurs in Finland, and it is nearly 60,000 more than at the beginning of the millennium. We must not lose this growth and its potential. We must ensure that these hardworking and courageous people get through this period of crisis as dry as possible. It benefits not only these people, but also the whole of Finland. Mr President! The possibility of access to unemployment benefit now being presented to entrepreneurs is an absolutely important step, and I would like to thank the government for that. This, combined with the planned EUR 2000 operating aid, will certainly help businesses, but it is still too early and impossible to know how much more similar aid and decisions we need before the crisis is finally behind us. With regard to the EUR 2000 operating aid, it is still necessary to ensure that all self-employed persons who meet the criteria have equal access to this grant and that the municipalities have sufficient capacity to process applications quickly across Finland. At every stage, we must also ensure that information on these decisions is made, so that entrepreneurs are always informed about the various changes and opportunities for support. Situations brought about by exceptional circumstances create very unclear situations in the eyes of many entrepreneurs, and it is very important that they have sufficient advice and assistance to prevent them from being left alone in this situation. By supporting entrepreneurs, we support Finland as a whole and make sure that the nightmares of the recession of the 1990s are not repeated, and that we get back on our feet as soon as possible after the crisis. Now if ever it is the right time to favour Finnish and local services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u122	Mr Satonen and then Mr Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u123	Mr President! I would also like to thank the government for this proposal and for the fact that it has been brought here so quickly. Of course, the coalition was already raising this issue in the past, and there is a common cause on the move. After all, it is important that until now the entrepreneur has the right to unemployment benefit only when he stops doing business and, of course, now that we are in such an exceptional situation, it makes no sense for these viable companies to fall, but it is of course important that those who have the opportunity to act after this crisis overcome the crisis. This is, of course, one part of this package, and Mr Keto-Huovinen well described in the previous speech the need for other forms of direct support, both through Business Finland and through Ely, and through municipalities, for this EUR 2000 money. However, this is significant in any case, and once this has already been discussed in the committee, this is certainly going to receive broad support, which is very important. Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the point that I believe this is a reform which, even in normal times, is very necessary, not just in times of crisis. This would, in fact, be quite similar to the system in the UK, for example, where it does apply to employees, but there is a similar basic idea that if income is below a certain limit but is still working and working a certain amount, then it is entitled to more money as a tax refund, i.e. the so-called negative income tax model. This is a somewhat similar arrangement. And since it is these self-employed, who are still on a very high level of growth, that there are many situations in normal times, that there is a significant difference in income levels, then it would be wonderful to have such a system as to be entitled to even a small level of basic security in addition to trying and then, in good times, to pay a little more YEL and more, but to get over those bad ones. I think that, in fact, everyone would win. I would also like to say that, in the context of this period of crisis, quite a few people have also raised this basic income perspective — which I do not support, therefore, basic income — that this is a completely different matter when it comes to people working actively but not every month — this applies to freelancers, artists, athletes, everyone else. In other words, there are such provisions in this proposal now — and this will, of course, only come into force for this period — that I think it would be worth seriously considering whether this model, or this type of model, could also operate in the normal period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u124	Mr President! Thank you for your excellent contributions, and thank you for the fact that the committee has already gone out of its way to work on this and to consult experts. Congressman Sankelo asked if this protective part was in use. Yes, the EUR 300 safeguard is in place, and conciliation is also possible here, which is how it is. Then: Why were laid off for a longer period of one month, until 31 July, when this is until the beginning of July? This is because when these laid-off things come to the TE Offices by force, that July would have been a bad one, that is, because it comes with a little delay, we need to have some time to deal with it. Of course, we will have to follow these times and follow them all the time, how are we really going to go all the way, but this is how it is for now. Then the professional group of athletes: I know that this too is certainly well-known, probably the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, for its part the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is also wondering whether there is anything to be done about it. Why isn't there a child raise? This line has come from the STM, and there's the idea behind it that we can now quickly get these payments, because there's quite a lot to settle in child increases, among other things, because they can involve, for example, alimony issues and others, so it's wanted to clean all this stuff up, which would slow this down. Mr Juvonen asked about this temporaryity. This is now so limited because we want to believe that our actual crisis phase is now limited, but, as has been said, monitoring must be carried out all the time. Mr Satonen said that this could also be a practice in normal times. I myself think that, now that we have this Social Security Committee, we are thinking about this social security and work-entrepreneurship relationship and the way things are being done. If you see something good here, you will find these experiments at a very fast pace and the same with regard to unemployment benefit, when you do not ask for it, but you go pretty much as you do automatically for payment. This is how we are going to try this, but this is a fixed-term law, and then we are going back to normal practice. The Sotu Committee will then consider further consideration of these.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u125	The debate and the proceedings shall be suspended and resumed at this sitting after the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u126	We will now resume the debate on item 13 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u127	Mr President! In the previous debate, the historical nature of this issue was already on the agenda, that a solution has been found in Finland regarding unemployment security for entrepreneurs, and with such an enormous timescale, it is precisely in line with this situation in the interest rate crisis. This is actually the second crutch in the group where the second is this support for sole entrepreneurs, which is being prepared by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, and which will then be subject to more precise criteria in the next few days. In that previous debate, it was pointed out that this could also be an experiment on what kind of simplified business suspension cover could be developed from this. Just like that, it reminds me of a hybrid model such as the one where, as we know, the pension provision for entrepreneurs is short, the majority of entrepreneurs pay too little money, and then, on the other hand, state aid has grown very big in relation to the contribution of entrepreneurs, so if this suspension benefit for entrepreneurs were linked to the pension system, unemployment benefit in the event of special problems, then in a way, the interest would increase to maintain a reasonable level of pension provision and its payment. Then, in the event of such exceptional situations, it would be possible to build a model of social security suitable for the activities of entrepreneurs. This will be good material for the future development of social security. Hopefully, as intended, these payments can be made quickly through Kela, which will make it necessary to secure the income you are looking for. This also serves as a part of the compensation for the closure of restaurants and cafes required by Parliament, which compensates for their losses. That is a combination of the various decisions that are now being taken, and hopefully a legal framework will also be available relatively soon, which will then be the last specific support needed for owners and entrepreneurs of the closed restaurants. But this is an important part of the overall package required by Parliament. About 15 years ago, I was in the Council of State in the ministerial group of the Entrepreneurship Policy Programme. The first steps were taken in improving and filling the gaps in the social security of entrepreneurs at all, and the attempt was made to build a model of unemployment security. There must have been half a dozen different companies since then. It would be hoped that there would still be a more permanent model of business suspension for entrepreneurs during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u128	Mr President! The Korona virus has struck our society in a holistic way. In addition to health damage, our country’s entrepreneurs have been hit hard. The worst effects have initially hit tourism, in particular the cultural and entertainment sectors, cafés and restaurants, barbers and beauty care entrepreneurs, clothing stores, and they have spread rapidly throughout the service sector. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of our country. In 2018, there were about 361,000 enterprises in Finland, of which about 90 per cent, or 320,000 were enterprises with fewer than 10 persons. Small and medium-sized enterprises employ a huge proportion of our workforce, and new jobs are created in SMEs. The government's amending budget and its proposals provide much-needed support for the plight of small entrepreneurs. A number of important changes have been made to the unemployment security of entrepreneurs. According to the proposals, labour market support could be paid without a time limit for full-time employment to a person whose full-time employment in a company would be considered to have ended with a very widespread serious infectious disease. The unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs is further extended so that, under certain conditions, the full-time employment of the entrepreneur could be considered to have ended if the income from business activity has decreased due to the interest rate crisis — the limit is EUR 1089 per month. In these situations, therefore, it would not be necessary to stop business in order to obtain unemployment benefit. A good entrepreneur, as the daughter of an entrepreneur himself and following the recession of the 1990s, I know that unemployment benefit may not sound like an attractive solution. The purpose of the Board of Directors is to support the survival of the companies that operate with this proposal, which could even be identified as the basic income of the entrepreneur. If no replacement work is found, the support will help until the company’s normal operations can continue. The change applies to all entrepreneurs regardless of the size and form of the enterprise. Self-employed persons can also apply for EUR 2000 assistance from municipalities in the event of corona virus. It would now be important to quickly find ways to distribute this support through municipalities and secure a transparent process and implementation resources in municipalities. It is also good to take into account the differences in the need for support across Finland when allocating funding intended for the distribution of municipalities. Closed Uusimaa has taken the heaviest beating of the corona at the moment. I fully agree that municipalities have knowledge and knowledge of these entrepreneurs who need support. In addition, the Ely Centres are already heavily burdened with other business subsidies. I consider these proposals to be very important. It is important that the message reaches entrepreneurs in need of support equally, including those in foreign languages, so that they are able to apply for alternatives. In the public debate, the health effects of the corona are very often contrasted with the economic effects. While saving lives is at the heart of everything, it is important to note, however, that in the long term, economic factors, for example, have a considerable impact on people's well-being. Social exclusion and social problems due to unemployment are equally costly for society. It is also important to take care of our country's entrepreneurs so that once we have survived the crisis, we will again have viable companies that will be able to employ Finns and raise the economy back on its feet. In the big picture, it is also good to talk more extensively about Finnish social security and its development. Now we are presenting a kind of basic income model that will ensure that neither the entrepreneur nor, for example, the freelancer is left empty as the work situation changes. Hopefully, after the corona crisis, the fundamental debate on the continuation and implementation of the basic income test will increase further and the present solution will be collected, which can be analysed afterwards as part of the development of social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u129	Mr President! I welcome the fact that there will finally be an improvement in the social security of entrepreneurs, albeit temporarily. In these circumstances, such an improvement is necessary. Among the first entrepreneurs, the Coalition Party presented a very similar model that the government is now presenting to Parliament. I would therefore like to thank the government for hearing and taking into account the ideas of the opposition. The problem and concern is common in this Chamber, and I hear that we all seem to be talking about this same issue. It is also good that unemployment benefit can be granted retroactively. If the sole entrepreneur left work as soon as the emergency conditions were established two or three weeks ago, it is now possible to obtain unemployment benefit retroactively. The proposal anticipates that some 70,000 entrepreneurs would receive support on a monthly basis. This costs some EUR 160 million to the state. However, it is aptly stated that even without change, the increase in benefit expenditure could be in line with that of entrepreneurs who would have to stop their business activities. The change now proposed will enable business to be maintained beyond the crisis, which is important. This is exactly the kind of bridge solutions that businesses need. As Mr Hopsuk said earlier, the Ely Centres are very burdened, and I hope that, in practical implementation, special attention will be paid to this process. The granting of aid must take the lightest possible form so that it does not over-congeste the Employment and Economic Development Offices. The minister's not here right now. I would have liked to ask him a few specific questions, but I shall now mention them out loud. I would have asked whether the proposed change applies to all entrepreneurs, namely that the government originally only spoke of self-employed and freelancers, when this is not directly reflected in the government's proposal. My second question would have been that when the unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs is extended until the end of June, but the proposal for laid-off workers until the end of July, why has such a decision been reached? Mr President! Finally, I would like to give a practical example of practical life, by which I would like to continue to challenge the government to find new instruments to help entrepreneurs. This week I talked to an entrepreneur who runs a clothing store in a city with a turnover of over half a million euros. His form of company happens to be a business name, which excludes him from Business Finland's grants, even though the activity could equally be oy-shaped. It just happens now to be a decision made at some point in time that they have set out to operate under the name of action. Now he has EUR 2000 distributed by the municipality, which is a good decision in itself, but which, in the case of this company, does not in any way help the situation of this entrepreneur, or the alternative is to become unemployed, which is also not an option for him when the stocks have just been filled with spring clothes, which he is now trying to sell off even at a loss. This is also where this revenue comes from, and here we are talking about quite different levels at the moment. I therefore hope that the government will clean up the situations of different entrepreneurs. It is a good thing that these different solutions have been sought, but we still have such situations in the blind areas. I hope that, for example, we will resolve how to save an entrepreneur in line with this example and prevent a healthy business from falling. It is critically important that solutions seek a form of flexibility that is so flexible that such companies will not be left behind but will be able to identify the different situations of companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u130	Mr President! We know that entrepreneurship carries Finland, and it is now very important for society to be able to support the continuity of entrepreneurship in such a way that when normal conditions return in due course, companies will be able to start producing the added value that is indispensable to society. It is important that these legislative proposals, which bring relief to the situation, can now be dealt with quickly, and so we can ensure that no viable and value-added companies in themselves need to be driven down during this crisis. Of course, this proposal will now provide security and, in concrete terms, bread on the table for the smallest companies, as it will be possible for entrepreneurs to benefit from unemployment benefit. But what is needed now is concrete action from the government also for a little bigger companies, so that we can actually get money into the cash register to get past the worst stage. It is important that the government has presented a number of good and well-founded instruments on how to support and facilitate business activities at this point, but many small and medium-sized enterprises that are still doing extremely valuable work for this society are in a situation where the cashier’s bottom is emptiness and there is a need for a patchwork now so that the entrepreneur’s children will also have bread on the table. There is also a need for even clearer rules. When the government wishes the public to act in a certain way in this situation to combat the epidemic and the pandemic — it is hoped that we will avoid physical encounters, we will do everything we can to ensure that the virus does not spread any more — then the government should come almost to the industry as well as to the industry with clear rules of play, such as those laid down by the law for restaurants, that is to say, do we want the movements to be open, or do we not want the movements to be open? Certainly, in the same way as for restaurants, the regulation can regulate when and where, if any activity can be carried out differently, it could be done. But the government must now become clearer rules for all kinds of entrepreneurs as to how to act, and for those companies that, as in the case of restaurants now, are forced to close their doors, there must be fair compensation over this state of emergency and derogation period, so that business can then continue when normal conditions are restored, and entrepreneurship can carry Finland forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u131	Mr President! After all, the proposal proposes a temporary amendment to the Unemployment Security Act. Labour market support could be paid in full-time to a person employed as an entrepreneur whose full-time employment in the company would be considered to have ended, and this would be caused by a widespread, serious corona disease. Mr President! After all, we are also making value choices in this Chamber, and we are very pleased: firstly, I would like to thank all the honourable Members for their good speeches, and also to thank the government for quickly bringing one value choice before us, and indeed that value choice is to keep as many companies as possible operating over this crisis, i.e. not allowing these companies to fail, which they have been able to do well so far. That, Mr President, is what I wanted to say at the end of this evening. I would therefore like to thank the government and Parliament as a whole for bringing this bill forward as quickly as possible. -Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u132	Mr President! As we all know in this Chamber, the exceptional circumstances have led to a significant reduction in business opportunities. The Corona virus epidemic and its restrictive measures, as well as the justifiable fear of the virus experienced by the public, are significantly reducing economic activity in society. This has had a significant impact on business life. Companies have run out of customers and consumption has stopped. On the basis of this proposal, labour market support could be paid to a full-time entrepreneur whose full-time employment in the company would be deemed to have ended, and that is precisely what the situation is. Full-time work could be considered to have ended if income from business activities has fallen below a certain threshold. President! In these situations, full-time work could also be considered to have ended, even if the business activity itself was not discontinued. The acquisition of labour market support would therefore not require the cessation of business. This is a very important point. President! This change is temporary and is, of course, intended to support the safeguarding of the livelihood of entrepreneurs during the exceptional circumstances of the corona pandemic. Of course, the Government is also prepared to extend, if necessary, the parliamentary temporary amendment. It makes very sense in these unstable times. Although these are important and essential measures, they are also, unfortunately, the image of this time. Entrepreneurs are now living in very serious times. The government has also allocated EUR 1 billion of direct support in its additional budget, and I hope that these will contribute to smoothing out and slowing down the plight. President! At the end of the day. For sole entrepreneurs, there is a government in its additional budget, quite rightly, through municipalities distributing EUR 2000 additional contributions. They come to a very important point for barbers, gym operators, café operators and physiotherapists, and so on. As far as the self-employed are concerned, I also wonder whether it would also be appropriate to consider the support of the living for them. Many self-employed people also need development funds, and they also need their own business, their own business, their own sole enterprise to develop strongly in this time period, and in this sense this kind of ely funding could also be justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u133	I would like to say that we have three referral debates in this plenary and a couple of table-tables in the report, and then there will be a new plenary session with two reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u134	Mr President! There are some 180,000 sole entrepreneurs in the Kingdom, and many of them work in areas where the effects of the corona virus seem to be their business activity, even to the point of running out of business. These areas have already been listed here from hairdressers to physiotherapists, from gym keepers to bars and cafes, and so on. We have a large, large number of people who have fallen on nothing, and obviously the unemployment security of entrepreneurs' normal conditions is not in a position to respond to this crisis. It is a great thing that we have now taken a measure which will allow retrospectively — from 16 March to the end of June, at least at this stage — this labour market support in a situation where there is no need to stop that company. In other words, this is an exceptional decision that business does not have to end completely. It allows even this kind of a little on top of the EUR 1000 business continuity, with which then it seed as if it remains there. These are very important reforms, and it is important that this can and will be made possible now, clearly against entrepreneurs — thanks to the government and also to the parliament that is working here. Mr Hopsu raised a very important additional point here: very many of these self-employed people are of foreign origin. And now it is clear to these people from foreign backgrounds that it is more difficult for them to recognise this situation at all, to know that society is coming against them. There are also language restrictions against them to approach the municipality, Kela, from which this support could be obtained. And remember, we have more than 10,000 self-employed people with foreign background — that is, more than 10,000 self-employed people with foreign background who employ 30,000 people — with a turnover of EUR 4 billion. This is a very large group which is in a very vulnerable position here. Now, too, it must be done that clearly we can also come against them, so that there are services so that even this lame language does not become a threshold in this case and that people do not fall on top of nothing. In that sense, thank you, Mr Hopsu, for raising this issue. This is something that needs to be recognized. A very important initiative, which is important to entrepreneurs, and today we have also dealt with the situation of workers in a similar way as regards unemployment security. I'm glad the government's acting quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u135	Mr President! This is an important rapid reform, as has been said many times. Perhaps the most important thing for me here is that all entrepreneurs are on the same line and receiving unemployment benefit requires that you register as an unemployed job seeker for full-time employment. This phrase may tell us the whole package of this package. However, there was also talk of the role of professional athletes during the day, and they were also referred to by Mr Multala, and I personally hope that this card will also be seen in the future. I also hope that, in the future and now in the run-up to this bill, it will be monitored that the Kela resource is sufficient in this changing situation. We need to be able to lighten the process and streamline the whole package. And then that information: it must be clear and reasonable and timely, so that every entrepreneur will then certainly get the correct and timely information.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u136	Mr President! This government proposal to organise unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs in these exceptional circumstances has been well prepared. What is essential is that labour market support does not require the end of business, but that full-time work in these situations could be considered to have ended, even if business is not stopped. A job seeker’s own declaration of reason for leaving the company would be sufficient to establish the entitlement to benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u137	Mr President! This proposal is very important and expected, and many entrepreneurs who have already been listed here, such as hairdressers or cosmetologists, many small businesses or self-employed persons in stone-foot shops or a few people, will certainly benefit from this proposal, and it will certainly make many people feel relieved, especially as this proposal provides for retroactive access to unemployment benefit. The only concern, perhaps, is that when the situation is very weak already at this stage, when weeks have passed and the flow of customers has stopped gradually and especially here in the capital region several weeks ago, now that this proposal from this Parliament is supposed to be unanimous, at least on the basis of speeches, will it then be possible to get these payments started as quickly as possible and with as light a process as possible? In fact, Mr Pekonen has already confirmed here that this problem has been recognised and will be addressed, and it is very good if this is done. It is very important that entrepreneurs, who, as it were in the context of the risk of entrepreneurship, have decided to set up their business but have not, of course, been able to prepare themselves for such a situation, should now be quickly relieved of their own income. What I am sure will make easier in this package and support measures presented so far by the government is that there are now at least two different forms of support for small entrepreneurs and self-employed people. One is the aid that will be distributed through municipalities, which will be the maximum amount of EUR 2000, and that is now the second of them. Then there are a lot of entrepreneurs who are not really involved in any of these support measures, and what's coming out of that field now is the biggest challenge for many is the rent costs that run. Some are lucky if they happen to be an entrepreneur in a city that has even agreed to fully forgive rent costs, or at least many cities and municipalities have agreed to postpone them, so that the cashier does not go immediately to the negative, but then there are much larger landlords who have not yet gone to make it easier for the tenants in any way. There is a real hope that there will now also be legal relief, for example, for tenants and also for companies that are on rent, a period of one month's legal notice, which would give such an opportunity, a better negotiating position, whether or not to say this, to these tenants against the big landlords, because, in many of these cases, I am sure that both parties would wish that they would be able to continue to do business there, because it would also be in the interest of the landlord to keep the tenants there. Let us hope that the government is now considering all sorts of ways in which it will also be possible for such companies, which are now unable to help with their cash-flow problems by themselves, to get through this crisis and continue to be able to employ them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u138	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. In the case of scheduled cases, the procedures agreed in advance shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u139	Mr President! In this proposal, it is proposed to extend the right to work for foreigners to allow all third-country nationals legally residing in the country to work in areas and tasks that are important for security of supply and the functioning of the labour market. This is about tasks where restrictions on border traffic at Finland's borders due to public health cause labour shortages. It is therefore a question of the tasks mentioned by the Commission in its 30th report. In its communications of 1 March, the Member States should allow border traffic. These include health professionals, seasonal workers in the agricultural sector, transport staff, people working on vital or otherwise necessary infrastructure, workers in the food industry and workers in the care of the elderly and other nursing. This law would therefore apply to all foreigners already residing in the country, i.e. all valid residence permits, visas and seasonal work certificates. The law therefore supports self-preservation in the country without encouraging people to travel across borders. We now know that border traffic is being restricted and traffic connections to Finland have deteriorated significantly. Similarly, people in neighbouring areas are urged not to travel abroad, and many countries also prevent them from travelling abroad. In Finnish delegations, the capacity to process licence applications is currently very limited and, therefore, in the event of a new foreign labour force being employed, the law would apply to them as well. In other words, this law has now been aimed at exceptional circumstances, and the first option was to link this period to the application of the Emergency Act, but it then turned out to be rather complicated, so it is proposed that the law should be in force until the end of this year. If it has to be overturned earlier, then it will be presented for annulment, but if the state of emergency continues for more than a year, then it will be proposed that it be extended. This is therefore intended to ensure that we are able to ensure the availability of the workforce as far as possible in the important tasks of security of supply and that these provisions are flexible in this regard so that people can move from one job to another without complicated processes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u140	Mr President! The Government has taken urgent action to ensure that Finnish society operates in this crisis situation and that, after this crisis, we also have a society in which, for example, it is possible to buy Finnish products from the store. The purpose of this presentation is to ensure the success of Finnish society and, for example, Finnish food production. I would also like to thank Mr Haatainen for that, that this proposal has been quickly received here in Parliament. This is the intention, therefore, that after the crisis we also have food on the plates, and Finnish food, but it is also intended to ensure that once this crisis has been resolved, these food prices would not be very high due to the lack of supply. I believe that the essential part of the proposal is that this applies to foreigners who are already in Finland and who have a work permit, just as Minister Haatainen has pointed out here. After all, we have borders at the moment, we cannot leave here and we cannot come here at the moment, so I think it is quite reasonable and natural that we should also allow people who already have a residence permit here to work in areas other than those they are currently working on. I also think it is important to note that in this proposal this law is tied to the deadline. It should be valid until the end of the year. And, as the Minister pointed out, if this crisis subsides, it will also be possible to dismantle this law. Another important point relates to the fact that this proposal concerns only certain areas. And these areas are listed in this proposal. They relate in particular to security of supply and sectors critical to the functioning of society, such as agriculture, construction and food. Well, we'll be able to clean this up in the Administrative Committee, and that's a good thing. But I would have asked the Minister whether it is also the case that these sectors and these tasks are accompanied by this usual labour market surveillance and other labour market surveillance, which is currently being carried out by a number of different authorities, such as the AV.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u141	Mr President! This Government proposal is absolutely necessary from the perspective of Finnish security of supply. The proposal allows all legally resident third-country nationals to work in areas and tasks which are important for security of supply and the functioning of the labour market as defined in the Commission Communication. Mr President! These sectors listed here have been of the type for years that the use of foreign labour has been a necessity. It is a fact and fact that Finnish cucumbers, tomatoes, strawberries, and so on, farms would not have grown in recent years without foreign labour. Of course, it is quite clear that in this situation, on the one hand, when we lay off from other tasks, the government must find a path and employ these Finns for these tasks, but it has already been estimated by farmers alone that, even after these decisions, the need for critical workers, i.e. necessary, from abroad, is still between two and three thousand, mainly from Eastern Europe — Ukraine, Belarus, such countries from which they have come. And this is a challenging situation now that the borders are closed, and I would like to ask a question here which is quite a difficult question: How will this be resolved in the next few weeks? Does the government have a way of getting these necessary workers, which may really be a couple of thousand according to farmers? Is it possible to get them to Finland in this situation? If the conclusion is that the situation is impossible, then we must really quickly find the solutions that this corresponding number of workers will then be mobilised from domestic forces. It needs incentives, it needs solutions for labour mobility — a very difficult whole, but very essential when the growth period in rural and agricultural areas is now approaching.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u142	Mr President! This is a worthy and important proposal. Let me briefly draw attention here to the fact that others are able to speak, but only to the conflict of scale. It is stated here that in the normal year there have been some 16,000 foreign workers in the horticultural sector, and if there is no labour force, we have no harvest to harvest, and there is also a risk of bankruptcy in many farms, especially in the case of special farming. However, when the need is so great, it is stated here in the proposal that, although this proposal could potentially increase this labour supply by tens of thousands, it is estimated in practice that the employment effect will remain in some hundreds. In other words, this contradiction is enormous and we can see from it that, unfortunately, this does not completely remove this distress. Mr President! In order to minimise the number of people in the Chamber during this corona period, I will go to that room to listen to the continuation of this debate and also to Minister Haatainen's answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u144	Mr President! This is a necessary proposal, and if you are thinking in particular of the plight of agriculture, the fact is, as Mr Räsänen said there, that this is a good start, but it is insufficient in itself. The 16,000 seasonal workers who work in agriculture, in berry farms and in fields cannot respond to this need for workers, but now it is absolutely essential to turn all the stones and indeed encourage people to seek employment in the agricultural sector. This is now a national issue of security of supply for us that our food production remains at its feet during this crisis. In this context, when Question Time talked about many young people being a summer worker, a potential one, and has already been informed at this stage that the summer job is not going to happen, I think it would be extremely important to target young people with a sort of rekry campaign to encourage them to the strawberry fields and berry farms. At the time when I was young, there were quite a few of us picking up in North Savo’s strawberry fields, and it was then the most popular summer work for schoolchildren, you might say. Today there are hardly any Finnish schoolchildren in those strawberry fields, or at least it is less common. Then another thing I am thinking about is that when we have asylum seekers who have the right to work and they have this reception allowance that they receive — in the same way as the basic Finns suggested that there would be the possibility of not losing unemployment benefit and getting additional earnings — so would it be possible here to think that those asylum seekers who have the right to work would remain the same, and in that way they would have the incentive to go in this situation to help farms and berry farms. As such, it does not change their process or bring any new or change to it, but their right to asylum will be examined just as it has been until then. This right of employment itself has not brought any change to it until now, and in that sense it could be thought that this could also be one of the opportunities for more workers on farms. This is a real farm emergency right now. For example, the situation on berry farms is beginning to be the case — of course, a little now depending on the north-south sector, geographical location — that quite a lot is already beginning to exist in the so-called preparatory work for which we now need the workforce, and in that sense all the stones in Finnish society must now be turned and considered in what way this situation can be resolved. At some point it was suggested that the last emergency is then that the garrisons go out to the berry fields. I think that the idea of a party was already rejected by itself, but if it really goes to the last minute that there is nowhere else we can get assistants to farm, then I think that too, as a means, as a last resort, must also be considered. In Finland, we cannot think that our food and food industry chains are going to be left behind and broken by the fact that we will not be able to repair the hundreds of them, and that is why this is such an extremely important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u145	Mr President! The proposal seeks to amend the Aliens Act and the Act on the entry and residence of seasonal workers from outside the EU on a temporary basis due to the corona crisis. In agriculture, especially during the harvest period, the share of foreign workers as employees in berry picking and other similar jobs is very high. Many of these people are seasonal workers. They come to the country, work and leave the country. They will not burden social security and services and will not remain in the country after the job has ended. Countries of origin include Ukraine, Belarus, Thailand, Russia, fewer people from the Baltic countries and Poland. Every year, 16,000 seasonal workers work in agriculture and gardens in Finland. The need for 1500 employees has been assessed critically according to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Security of Supply Centre. The reason for the large number of migrant workers is the low level of pay in the sector. According to the Rural Employers' Association and the Industrial Association's collective agreement, hourly wages move between approximately EUR 8.5 and EUR 11 per hour, only EUR 6 per student. The Finns have nothing against seasonal workers. A seasonal worker whose labour input is useful and which generates taxes is different, both economically and in other respects, as well as a person who stays in the country with any residence permit and who generally loads social security and the service structure equally, regardless of his or her actual status. With regard to seasonal workers, the agricultural situation is difficult because our borders are closed. The proposal suggests that foreigners who are laid off and become unemployed in other sectors and who live on work-based residence permits could be used for seasonal agricultural work. The current foreign law does not allow such an exchange of interests. Of course, it makes sense to change this. It would also make sense to take advantage of those who are suffering from a relatively low level of employment who have received a non-work-related residence permit and international protection status. There is a huge and growing reserves of foreign unemployed people in the country. As we know, the corona epidemic also significantly increases the unemployment rate of Finns. Mr President! The Government's proposal, which has been given in a hurry and is obviously prepared in a hurry, is unclear. On the one hand, it sets out the sensible and worthy issues that I have dealt with above, on the other hand, it includes other traditional projects relating to so-called labour immigration, which (1) should have nothing to do with the crop work of agriculture or other sectors in need of foreign labour, and (2) which do not concern foreigners already present in the country, but immigration which is expected to arrive or to arrive in the future. The proposal states that the interest rate situation poses the challenge of providing sufficient labour to the construction sector and the shipbuilding industry as well as to the transport sector. All these sectors have already had significant domestic unemployment without corona, not to mention now. The same problematic incentive traps apply to a foreigner after he has ensured that he remains in the country. Unemployment benefits and social security do not encourage low-paid or short-term work, especially if the person is located in the area of high housing costs, and especially if there are children in the family. Wages are too low for social security, or social security is too high for wages. In Finland we will soon have 320,000 new laid off or unemployed in addition to previous job seekers. There would probably be a willingness to work if the government were to introduce a law to the parliament that would allow, for example, seasonal work on farms without affecting the benefit resulting from layoff or dismissal from actual work. This is what the Finns have been proposing today. This would also increase the attractiveness of seasonal work in the eyes of Finns. Mr President! Another major problem with the proposal is therefore that it does not only deal with people already in the country but also hints at new immigrants. It is precisely insinuating, for the points that speak about the matter are very short and unclear in what they say. Business associations in different sectors have provided arguments on the need for foreign labour in different sectors. The arguments refer to the critical nature of the industry and tasks, either in terms of security of supply or in terms of endangering the livelihood and livelihood of the companies in the sector or both. True Finns feel that it is irresponsible to want more people in the country, as the layoffs and unemployment of both foreigners and Finns increase significantly. Finland’s borders are to be closed because of the corona epidemic — they are not: the Finnish missions that are open are currently processing applications for visas and residence permits in these so-called critical sectors. A few days ago, the Commission published a list of these critical areas, but, as I said earlier, the government interprets this broadly. It appears that all sectors with significant foreign workers can be considered critical, regardless of the reason for the high foreign representation in the sector. On the contrary, the Finns believe that the goal should be that no critical sector can rely on foreign labour and its availability. The proposal would therefore also apply the same conditions to non-residents. The proposal states: ‘Although border traffic restrictions do not concern access to labour from foreign countries, this could be followed The proposal is not consistent with the Government's objective of reducing border traffic. It is only consistent in this regard with regard to persons already present in the country, but it also applies to new residence permits and visas issued during the exceptional period, including in areas other than those which are not really critical, such as agriculture. Defining sectors as critical only because they have a large number of foreigners, circumventing corona restrictions and special laws. This will be done before any attempt has been made to find ways of gaining labour inside our country. Mr President! The proposal must be supported for foreigners who are already in the country. It is worth noting, however, that if the proposal were to concern only them, it would be in vain for itself. In fact, it says this: ‘It increases labour supply potential by tens of thousands of people, but in practice, employment can expect some hundreds of people to remain. It is not a matter of a few hundred foreigners in the country. The aim is to facilitate immigration into low-wage sectors, even though our borders are closed and the country will soon be full of laid-off and unemployed people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u146	Mr President! Indeed, the Government's proposal proposes a temporary amendment of the Aliens Act and the Act on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of working as seasonal workers. The proposal would reduce economic difficulties, particularly in agriculture and the horticultural sector, and is important in the sense that it is very important to ensure adequate access to seasonal labour. These areas are listed here, but in part this is also linked to this communication from the Commission, and in the Commission communication these tasks, which are defined as necessary tasks and needs, include health professionals, seasonal workers in the agricultural sector, transport staff, people working on vital or otherwise necessary infrastructure, the food industry and various care workers. It is quickly thought that a comprehensive list, but one sector that uses a lot of seasonal workers in Finland has different natural products sectors. So there is talk of berry pickers and all that is in our forests and that is also processed into food. We all know that for the most part, almost completely, their warpes and collections have depended on seasonal workers. These do not exist in this Commission communication, and since we have not been able to familiarise ourselves with this government proposal before, I did not find them here either in the government proposal as soon as possible. Self-sufficiency is more important these days than many others have thought for years. Personally, I have always thought it was important, but if we know that some countries at EU level have already started to restrict food exports beyond their own borders, then it is understood that it is important for us here in Finland to increase the level of self-sufficiency. So I would ask the Minister: do you see, and is this the case, that this government proposal also affects this sector of natural products, and, if not, is the Ministry prepared for it to be touched by the regulation? We will, of course, begin consultations in the Administrative Committee tomorrow on this, but this would be a good thing to have before. This law is now in force until the end of this year, but this government proposal does not make it clear that if a person who now has a residence permit receives a work permit for these security of supply sectors, even now in May, whether he will end that year or whether he will receive it for a year or a year and a half. In other words, will it be valid in these security of supply sectors, even after the possible expiry of this legislation? I hope the Minister will answer these two questions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u147	And Minister Haatainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u148	Mr President! Here's a lot of questions. I hope three minutes is enough. There was a lot of question in the speeches about who these are for. Mr Heinäluoma raised the first question about the fact that these sectors, the workers, are now covered by the same rules of play as others in working life. Yes, collective agreements and health and safety at work, all of these are exactly the same as we do here in Finland. Then, here, Congressman Talvitie asked if the natural products industry was inside. Yes, it is covered by the concept of seasonal work, which means it is involved. The authorisation is normally granted, and this authorisation only applies to the labour law that is granted here. When Mr Purra talked about this border traffic and so on, this is not about restricting border traffic. These matters will be decided separately by the Government. And then the question of whether these apply to asylum seekers with labour law. We're working on this now with Migri. Here of course, the advantage would be that these reception centres are close to these places, where this work is also done, i.e. here is this sort of question of encounter also that people and jobs would encounter. Mobility may be limited, but this would be served by being close. Mr Räsänen then said that this was a small matter. But in a way, small streams are now gathering larger currents. We are forced to do so in order to find all the means, and this proposal will now contribute to securing the labour force for agriculture and, in particular, for the horticultural sector. This is indeed a matter of urgency, because at the moment there are seedlings being sown and planted, and we already need workers. That is why, together with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Forestry and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, we are now going through this with the actors in the sector and looking for ways to campaign, and the TEM-led campaign is now also being carried out, and we are targeting students, as Mrs Essayah has said very well. So we kind of need this kind of national seasonal work. I myself have been picking berries for two summers as a student, probably with Essayah in the same gardens or strawberry fields. I know this job, and this could be a good way for students to make a living and get an account now, at times when summer jobs are probably not available in their own field of study. I wish we had this kind of national, common will mode in that we take care of this, because really this is such a thing that if we don't now get these plants to grow and the gardens to plant in order, then we don't have any of the crops that can be harvested later. So this is important for our security of supply, food supply and self-sufficiency. All these things that have been raised here, I will move forward, and many of these are being prepared by the Ministry. We will then make further proposals, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry will be very closely involved in joint projects. This is a big, important matter. For its own small part, this law is also important, as it ensures that these people from immigrant backgrounds here today can also operate and change jobs smoothly in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u149	The debate and the proceedings shall be suspended and resumed at this sitting after the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u150	We will now resume the debate on item 14 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u151	Mr President! This government proposal, which in itself must be supported, has already been discussed here in the Chamber, is now seeking to make it possible to do the work of foreign workers who are already here, regardless of the current restrictions, a change of employment, which is, of course, sensible. This, and many others of these proposals, highlights the problem in our society that, in many respects, we do not necessarily want to do all kinds of work in this society. Now we have a lot of work in critical sectors, such as agriculture, for which there are no workers, and the sign is that many of these workers are such that they come here as seasonal workers and then go back to their country of origin. It is a good thing that, under normal conditions, we have workers who come here as seasonal workers, but it is worrying if, in this situation, where we are going to have a large number of people who are either laid off or even unemployed, at the same time we have a serious shortage of labour in other sectors. In this situation, this problem of alignment should in some way be able to be resolved quickly. And perhaps this exceptional situation will be of some benefit to us that when we start turning on the future social security reform, i.e. reforming Finnish social security, we will consider how it would be possible for work to always be profitable. So even if the salary is small, it would be worth receiving the job and then it would be as if the remaining part of the income was made possible otherwise, or even doing many jobs at the same time, if they do so. A good example of this, which I raised in conjunction with that earlier presentation on the possibility of unemployment security for entrepreneurs, is athletes, professional athletes. When there is no social security or unemployment security in practice, as is the case for professional athletes to a very large extent, then situations will arise, such as those announced by the football club in Oulu, for example, that they will seek seasonal work on farms and are prepared to work hard. That's good, but it just shows that when there is no unemployment benefit and you have to earn a living somewhere, then you also have to go to work for jobs with very low hourly wages. That is why I hope that the government will also pay attention to this, because yes, I hope and believe that we want to continue to have people who are sportsmen in this country. However, many people think that sport is important, at least this is how I feel, and that is why I feel it is very important that sportsmen have the opportunity to practise their profession. And that is what they are doing, even though they are doing other work along these lines to keep their livelihoods. In itself, this government proposal, which is here today, has been given a deadline, and this is good. Indeed, this is an attempt to make it possible for us to find more workers for that labour shortage, but this will not be enough. Let us hope that the government will now consider other solutions that can provide flexibility for all those students and young people who are not working in summer, for example, to work in sectors where there is an acute shortage of labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u152	Mr President! The Government's proposal in the referral debate is clearly drafted in haste and, despite its brevity, is remarkably confusing. The timetable does not provide sufficient opportunity for parliamentary groups to analyse the proposal. This proposal is justified by the shortage of labour in key sectors for security of supply, particularly agriculture, caused by the introduction of a corona pandemic and measures to combat it. Spring jobs on farms are about to begin, and entrepreneurs need to know whether or not they are getting labor. In this respect, it is an urgent matter. It is not appropriate, however, that, under the guise of urgency, some longer-term agendas, such as facilitating the entry of cheap workers, should be promoted. The Finns Party considers it highly justified that attempts are being made to recruit foreigners who are already in the country in areas where there is an acute shortage of workers. The capital region is full of foreigners brought into the restaurant and cleaning industry, who have now been placed in a kilometre factory. It will be intolerable if they move on to burden the income support system. Already 40 per cent of income support in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area is paid to foreigners. Of course, the employment of these people in agriculture must not be hindered, at least by bureaucracy and legislation. However, the government itself does not seem very optimistic about its proposal. In the horticultural sector, the annual need for foreign labour is about 16,000 persons. The employment impact of this proposal is estimated to be in some hundreds. One reason is that, according to the government’s own assessment, only a small proportion of the persons concerned want to work in sectors that are critical for security of supply. Well, if the proposal is not estimated to have any practical impact on employment, why is it being presented and why is it in such a burning rush? Why does the law also extend to new residence permits, even though the country has the darkest number of foreigners, both on the basis of work and on humanitarian grounds, who should be actively recruited to work? Mr President! The Finns Party supports the flexible employment of foreigners who are already here in critical sectors, such as agriculture. New cheap labour should not be sought, and therefore the law should not extend to new residence permits. You don't have to admit things like that in this situation. The critical sectors must also be defined more strictly than in the government's proposal. For example, there are many Finnish unemployed people in the construction sector and there is no need for more cheap jobs. Mr President! The Finns have already suggested that MTK would launch a vigorous recruitment campaign among immigrant communities suffering from chronic unemployment. The public radio can certainly provide help in this, since it can also provide information about the corona in the Somali, Arabic and Kurdish languages. It is grotesque that immigrants are glowing as repairers of the dependency ratio, but in practice they are completely ignored in the debate when the workforce is really needed. We have also tabled today urgent temporary legislation under which a person who has been made redundant or laid off because of an interest rate could take up seasonal employment in agriculture this year without cutting his unemployment benefit. This would also increase the attractiveness of work among Finns and improve people's livelihoods. For the State, this would be cost-neutral as the aid would be paid in any event. There are ways of facilitating labour shortages in agriculture, but unfortunately this government proposal does not offer much of them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u153	Mr President! This is a government proposal proposing a temporary amendment to the Aliens Act and the Act on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of working as seasonal workers. The proposed laws would allow all legally resident third-country nationals to work in areas and tasks that are important for security of supply and the functioning of the labour market. Such tasks include health professionals, seasonal workers in the agricultural sector, transport staff, people working on vital or otherwise essential infrastructure, the food industry and various care workers. The law would apply to all valid residence permits, visas and seasonal work certificates, as well as new residence permits, visas and seasonal work certificates. Mr President! Like many other government proposals today, this too has come in haste for us to deal with, and it is difficult to catch up with everything the law contains. However, it is very important that the purpose of the law is not to increase the arrival of cheap labour in Finland and the market. Mr President! It is very good that those who are already in the country, who are legally resident, are in employment and are offered that opportunity. Such that a person wants to work and goes to work hard and briskly, no one can resist. Among other things, these health professionals and other care workers have been mentioned here. We have dealt here with the Emergency Act and, among other things, the obligation to work. And during the presentation we heard that in Finland, the government estimates that we have about 45,000 potential people who might be able to work in the care sector. There were about 21,000 to 25,000 people, carers working in a sector other than health care at the moment. We would now have to persuade these people to do the work that is sorely lacking, such as this work in the care sector. At present, however, the situation is very critical. Every person in the care sector works there, also sacrificing his or her own health and taking the daily risk of possibly working in the midst of coronavirus infections. In what way would we get trained nurses to accept this obligation to work? Here you have to say the magic word again: money. It is very unfortunate that carers' salaries always come up in those situations when it is said that we do not have the opportunity to raise wages, we cannot afford it. The government debt is growing, and the nurses are always the ones who are waiting for that raise. But if the pay is right, the workers will be made. There are separate entries in collective agreements where, among other things, exceptionally demanding working conditions may be the reason why we can give wage increases. And I would see that at the moment, right now, all medical workers, regardless of training — cleaning workers and all nurses trained in the care sector — are not working under exceptionally demanding working conditions. I could use such plain language as the addition of dangerous work. If what is happening at the moment, and I would see it as important to discuss money here too, how to get people to work in the care sector, that they do not need to be asked at least from there for workers from third countries. Mr President! We don't know how long we've got the limits, how long. Uusimaa has been isolated, how long the quarantine will last, how long this corona virus epidemic will last, but this presentation also fails to show how these workers coming to Finland will follow this quarantine. The time will tell us how long we have quarantines, but when the minister said that they are encouraged to stay in Finland, would it not be very important if we worked in Finland that we stay in Finland as well? Mr President! Representative Jussi Halla-aho raised the issue of how we can support Finnish employees who are at a time of distress under the threat of lay-off or in the negotiations. We propose that these people, without losing their unemployment benefit and social security benefits, could work in these seasonal jobs, among other things, in the coming year. And here we are talking about, among other things, these issues raised by farmers — farming, gardening, berry picking — that is, these very important issues. It would be very important for us to have people in these areas as well. And it was a great thing for Prime Minister Marin to catch this good presentation by Mr Halla-aho. All in all, we also need encouragement and enthusiasm for all Finns, especially students, schoolchildren, to have enough of this berry picking and gardening for them as well. And in many speeches I have raised the question to the government: how can we support the fact that young people can also be employed in these areas? Not everyone in town can get to that berry farm because there's no berry farm in town. But how could young people also experience that countryside and go there to work on a berry farm?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u154	Mr President! This government proposal aims to mitigate the effects of the corona virus on seasonal labour with a foreign background. In particular, the agricultural and horticultural sectors, where, as has been mentioned in several speeches, there are 16,000 seasonal workers, which is a critical situation in that respect. Why is there a lot of foreign seasonal labour in agriculture in particular? That too has been strongly highlighted in these debates. Of course, income levels are exceptionally low, it must be mentioned, and the work is also physically burdensome. This is why it has been considered that the labour force from abroad in this respect compensates for this situation when the Finnish-based labour force is not willing to participate in these jobs on the scale before. This proposal, which we now have before us, will only be able to correct this problem to a very small extent or in part, but the starting point is quite correct. What is important is that we try to employ people with foreign background in Finland and also Finns rather than people relying on subsidies. Yes, at least mentally, I can support, among other things, the thinking that students, young people, as they have traditionally done, should be more closely involved in this seasonal work during summer holidays. In this regard, there is encouragement in that direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u155	Mr President! Because of the interest situation, we have had to close the borders of our country. This has a significant impact on the economy and entrepreneurship. Negative effects are also literally reflected in the grass-roots, horticultural and agricultural sectors. The justification for the Government proposal states that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry estimates that in the garden sector in the normal year there will be approximately 16,000 foreign workers throughout the year. This workforce is now needed in spring for planting seedlings and seedlings, in summer and autumn for harvesting crops. Farmers are in pain in the situation, as the ordering of seedlings and seeds is not necessarily a risk if there is no certainty as to the adequacy of the workforce. Therefore, if there is not enough labour in the next few weeks and months, not necessarily, as in previous years, there will be a corresponding harvest that will be harvested in the autumn. The present proposal facilitates the continuation of the work of third-country nationals already residing in Finland in areas and tasks that are important for security of supply and the functioning of the labour market. The important thing is to enable the existing workforce to move from one job to another, which has now been very difficult with work permits targeting only one job within one company. When, at the moment, you cannot actually travel to Finland from other countries and it is practically impossible to obtain new labour from abroad, the proposal is very much to be welcomed. For example, we need solutions to direct young people who have now lost their summer jobs to the agricultural sector for seasonal work. Many young people may not be able to pick berries themselves. We need more information. We can also receive additional assistance from people who have received a negative decision on asylum and residence permits. The so-called paperless would be an important asset in the work and in the work of securing security of supply in our country. A great many of them are already in favour of a job in a sector, but the work permit process has been delayed and the situation is limbo while they are waiting for a work permit or fearing forced return. Work permit processes should be speeded up for immigrants who are already present in the country. In addition, their right to work should begin immediately, not after 3 or 6 months. Similarly, the completely absurd 3 or 6 months of re-applications that have already been made during the last summer should be removed as a matter of urgency, so that work can continue without interruption. I also share Mr Multala's concern about labour and labour problems. The profitability of receiving work should be improved, for example, in seasonal work elsewhere than in the municipality of residence.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u156	Mr President! In this pandemic situation, particular attention should now be paid to security of supply. Knowing that the main food producing countries in Europe, France, Spain and Italy are also those countries which, at least at this stage of the pandemic, have faced the greatest difficulties both in terms of their public health and, in all probability, in terms of safeguarding their national economy, may well become a situation in which the European normal food market is in very strong turbulence this year. It is quite clear that the restrictions on mobility will be in place for the coming harvest period, and so we in Finland, where we are fortunate enough to have a good food self-sufficiency, must take all the necessary measures to ensure that the future summer harvest is fully and perhaps even slightly more planned, both produced and also harvested, because there can indeed be a situation in Europe where the food market is in a very difficult situation. That is why it is important for this government proposal to move forward quickly here in Parliament and for third-country nationals to be able to operate in these sectors that are critical for security of supply, especially in agriculture and the food chain in general at the beginning, where there is now a great deal of normal seasonal workers' resources in Finland. Mr President! This proposal is in no way enough to compensate for the need for labour in this sector. In this respect, the idea put forward by the MTK that all those who are now laid off could also work on farms, on crops so that they do not lose this unemployment benefit they receive during lay-off, but are fully entitled to this additional income, which they earn on these farms, is very important and, in this exceptional situation, to be supported, and I hope that the government will make a proposal for it. I believe that it will receive the support of a large majority in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u157	Mr President! Indeed, the Government is submitting to Parliament a proposal for the legislation on the temporary amendment of the Aliens Act and the Act on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of working as seasonal workers, and it is indeed a temporary law that would last until the end of this year. Again, ladies and gentlemen have made excellent contributions, and Mr Autto also pointed out that, just as we are concerned about security of supply, it would certainly be appropriate, in accordance with the unemployment benefit, to have access to that farm and to maintain the unemployment benefit. Mr President! I am also concerned about when the autumn comes and the forest berries are beginning to be pickable — there are blueberries and lingonberries in Kainuu, full of ravenscapes, and also in Lapland, where Mr Autto comes from. Over the past few years there have been not only Finns but also Thai pickers, and that is why I am very concerned that if the pickers don't come and can't come, how will these berries be taken into use from there? In fact, I have wondered in my own head whether it would be possible to pay some kind of support to those Finns who would go to that berry forest to pick up these so-called superfootes. That if you could get an appropriate price for that berry kilo, it might even bring good additional income for both Finnish students and the underprivileged as well as those who may still be unemployed during the autumn. I myself remember, Mr President, that at the end of the 1990s a good account was made with a berry pick, and I remember how the thousand - dollar notes came over as needed. I would like, Mr President, to point out that this would be a good bonus, but that we should also consider ways of making those berries useful as raw material for Finnish industry and for further processing, and so on for the world, because that is how this economy will thank us in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u158	Mr President! We have an important and good presentation now in the debate, especially with regard to food safety. This is the most important time of the year to ensure food security, i.e. a new growing season. Decisions on the extent of farming will be made these days if not already taken, and agriculture will be faced with a huge shortage of labour in addition to the problem of profitability. As a result of the exceptional situation, border traffic is restricted and many farms and horticultural farms are or are missing out on the foreign seasonal labour they need. Without seasonal labour, a significant part of the harvest will not be produced or harvested. In addition, there is a risk that many companies will cease their activities permanently. The food supply for the coming summer and winter is now at stake, and it is good that the government acts quickly here and has heard the need for farms and the gardening sector. Thank you to the government for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u159	Mr President! The proposal provides for new, temporary measures to make better use of the input of third-country nationals residing in the country in key emergency tasks, i.e. those already in the country and who have a residence permit. I think this sounds pretty smart in this situation. However, the construction sector, the shipbuilding industry and the logistics and transport sector are also mentioned here, and I am confused by this. The shipyard and logistics sector has come out in just this last week, both on behalf of SKAL this morning, by reducing their jobs, and this whole, which is why the whole logistics and shipbuilding industry is so vastly confused. In addition, the construction workers were referred to here, and when the construction industry was mentioned here too, it was necessary to check that in March there were 7876 members receiving earnings-related daily allowance, so the works there are not even the darkest of the clouds.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u160	President! If there may be even those in this Chamber who are quite far from this real economy of agriculture and horticulture, I could say that the situation in Southwest Finland is already quite acute. There is already the planting of strawberries in the growth tunnels, and in that sense there is no mention of anything, for example, two weeks away. I support this government proposal. It's part of the solution. It is, of course, a good thing that these people in a country with a seasonal work certificate or residence permit can flexibly move from one employer to another from one farm to another, or that there is also a need to move from one farm to the food industry, or vice versa, depending on the season we live in. This kind of regulation could be quite permanent, not just until the end of 2020. But then about this seasonal labour force, which has been like this 16,000 people a year in Finland for a long time: After all, there is fierce competition in the various EU countries for this labour force outside the EU and the EEA. It comes from Ukraine in particular, but it also comes from other countries. If, however, in this world, this workforce were to be transferred to countries such as Central Europe, where it is also sorely needed, then Finland must be awake that we are not left uninvolved. We have talked about 1500 people, but in practice it is far too little. These facilities for which this workforce is needed are exceptionally advanced facilities. In practice, you can say that they are traders, and they also have good quarantine facilities for these people if only they could come here. This is a matter of genuine security of supply, security of supply for vegetables, root vegetables, berries, strawberries, even potatoes. In that respect, it is worth taking seriously. I do not want to be predicting any difficulties in importing food, but that is also possible. Then, as far as this is concerned — whether it is now the proposal of the Finns of Peruvian origin — that the recipients of unemployment benefit should come to the farms for a salary, I will not, of course, take a stand on this in itself, but I will simply say that there would then be two-storey people in the fields and gardens: those who would receive both unemployment benefit and work pay, and those who would only receive work pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u161	Mr President! An extraordinary time requires extraordinary actions. We are faced here very quickly with a huge number of legislative reforms and changes so that we can tackle the serious challenges posed by the corona. The officials, as well as the representatives elected by the people, are working very hard on the pressure and schedules here. The law before us is a good example of such a case. Agriculture has quickly come into great difficulty as a result of the restrictive measures, as the Finnish agriculture economy works very well with seasonal workers, which we receive from abroad. Now that workforce is not available. The last time I have been contacted today is to ask for rapid action on the authorisation procedure for foreign labour and its bureaucratic problems. The problems in this area have already been raised before the corona, but now something has to be done quickly. This change will not solve the sudden shortage of labour in agriculture alone, but it will ensure that foreign workers now present in the country can continue to work as easily as possible. After all, we are living in crucial moments in the field of Finnish farming and food production, as has been heard many times in this Chamber today. Farms live in great uncertainty as to the scale of farming, because there is no information about the workforce. Korona has also taught us that our level of self-sufficiency must be high and must be kept high. How is it kept if the shortage of labour does not result in the kind of harvest that is needed? What are we going to do to fill the security lockers with? These are extremely important fundamental issues that need to be resolved quickly. The clock is merciless. In Sweden, for example, serious problems have already arisen due to the fact that there is a significantly lower self-sufficiency rate for food than in Finland. What about when the crises go on longer? What about when there are crises everywhere, as it is now? I propose one solution for an online employment service to which farms can indicate their needs for work: how much it is needed, where and what quality it is needed, whether there is room for accommodation and so on. In the same way, jobseekers can report themselves in the same service and thus meet demand and supply. The establishment of such a fast, flexible and light-structured service is not even technically challenging and would be made to work very quickly. This kind of online service has recently been set up in Kuopio, which enables you to find and apply for services and products from small businesses in Finland very easily. The employment services I propose would be very simple to build on this same basic idea, service and platform. In practice, the only thing to care about is a little change. Next summer, the opportunities for young people to work in summer are very limited. This would be an excellent opportunity to get work and valuable experience in life. Agriculture may also provide opportunities for self-employed people, for example, who could work on farms, for example, as subcontractors. There are many possibilities. In Kuopio, a large group of restaurants has already done something like this: it has lent its employees access to a large food trade. It is clear that all actors will benefit from such activities, especially workers. The same could be done with regard to agriculture — work to be carried out. There are already living examples of this type of employment agency activity, whether it be a foreign or domestic labour force. This is exactly what we need in this time period: excellent examples of how quickly, innovatively we will find new ways of doing things and doing things and solving problems. Mr President! An extraordinary time requires extraordinary actions. This would be one of the measures that could have a fundamental impact on the major problem and, at the same time, on how Finland will cope with the corona and the subsequent period of time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u162	Mr President! The proposal must be supported for foreigners who are already in the country. There are currently many laid off and laid off people in Finland, which is why Finns have today proposed urgent temporary legislation under which seasonal work in important tasks for security of supply in 2020 will not remove unemployment benefits from a person who has been laid off or laid off because of a corona epidemic. As previously heard in the Chamber, this proposal would also be cost-neutral for the State. Just now, Mr S.H.I.E.L.D., we also heard a good proposal for one solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u163	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Here, too, a maximum of 30 minutes is set aside for the referral debate, which means that the shorter you speak, the more time you will be able to listen to what others have to say. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u164	Mr President! As a result of the Koronavirus pandemic, the position of employers is currently exceptionally challenging. The pandemic and the measures taken to limit it, as well as the public's fear of the disease, are significantly reducing economic activity in society. This has had a significant impact on business life as the number of business customers has fallen sharply. In addition, the financial position and economic conditions of enterprises have also deteriorated strongly over a very short period of time. On 20 March, the Government has agreed on transactions to minimise the adverse effects of coronavirus pandemic. The present proposal implements one part of the line of business: a temporary reduction in the employer's earnings-related pension insurance contribution on the basis of a proposal from the social partners. The proposal proposes to temporarily reduce the employer's earnings-related pension contribution by 2.6 percentage points. The reduction would apply from the beginning of May to the end of the year. The reduction in the insurance premium would apply to the premium charged by the employment pension insurance companies. In the case of pension funds, pension funds and Merimies Pension Fund, the compensatory portion of the annual contribution would be reduced accordingly. The reduction in the contribution would be financed through the use of the equalisation provision for private sector pension contributions in previous years, which is intended as a buffer for the equalisation scheme. The level-playing field would be re-enforced by payment increases to employers between 2022 and 2025 in order to fully compensate for the reduction. The reduction or subsequent increase in the employer's contribution would not affect the employee's share of the earnings-related pension contribution. The proposal proposes exceptional facilitations for employers in the private sector for earnings-related pension contributions. The Act would provide that, in addition to reductions in contributions, employment pension insurance companies would not be able to pay company-specific customer credits to the extent that they could be accumulated during the period of the reduction. In an exceptional situation caused by an interest-bearing pandemic, it is justified that any surplus in the insurance business accumulated during the period of the reduction in the contribution should remain in the employment pension insurance companies to strengthen their solvency capital. The law has been proposed to enter into force as soon as possible and would be in force until the end of 2025.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u165	Mr President! This government proposal must also be supported and, in fact, the Christian Democrats were the first to suggest that these recovery measures should be taken urgently, and this was the first one on the list of measures, because we saw that this is still quite easy to implement, because our system is such that we can make such a delay within it. It is a matter of postponement. These responsibilities are now being reinstated between 22 and 25, so that a certain type of loan, as it were, is involved. As such, there are no questions about this method of implementation and the like, but I have yet to consider this freezing of customer credit when the Minister stated that it will remain to cover this fund in general. Is it intended, however, that, when these liabilities have been extinguished, it would be possible for these customer credits to be dismantled, or do we think in full that the customer credits that have accumulated during this period will remain in the joint capital, because there may be a number of reasons behind it, however, why these customer credits have been accumulated?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u166	Mr President! Here is this paragraph and the following three: 15-18. Paragraphs, which have been submitted to Parliament today as government proposals, are part of this broader package of measures decided by the government on 20 March, which decided on these broad measures to enable our companies to cope with the corona crisis, and then, on the other hand, the following proposals also decide that our workers will also be able to cope with better social protection in this situation. Perhaps I should like to say to this that we are, as it were, on a moving train all the time. In other words, I cannot say precisely what number of people there were, the total number of workers on lay-offs when these proposals were made, but if we look at what has happened today and what has happened yesterday, today at 1 p.m., there were 333,000 employees in the negotiations and yesterday there were 12,000 fewer, which indicates that these measures, which the government then did and what has now been brought here in Parliament, are more than necessary. It has become more and more clear to us all day by day and, in fact, almost an hour by hour, and that is why I think it is very important that this block, too, in this larger whole, i.e. the reduction in the TyEL levy of 2.6%, can be taken forward quickly here in Parliament as well. As far as this is concerned, it is indeed temporary. I would also like to say very strongly here that these are not intended to be permanent. This is temporary, and I hope this will come into force as soon as possible, and the law will be in force until 2025 because, in a way, repayment of this rebate can then take place there from 2022 to 2025, as this government proposal says overall. And I would like to say that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health wants to deal with this and I hope that it will also be able to deal with this proposal as quickly as possible within the timescale for this to be brought into force quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u167	Mr President! This government proposal has also come as a matter of urgency and hastily, being still non-public in that morning. In other words, for a very short time all of us in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have been familiar with this proposal, although this has already been known. This proposal proposes to adopt a law on the temporary reduction of insurance contributions under the Workers' Pensions Act in 2020. The employer's contribution to an employee's contribution under the Pensions Act would be temporarily reduced by 2.6 percentage points. It is quite true that all support for employers and businesses must now be given in this terrible corona crisis and those bridges must be secured over this difficult one. The chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Vehviläinen, already read these gruesome figures. Here the Helsingin Sanomat had updated this number of people in the negotiations and already said that there are nearly four hundred thousand of them. So this is like the clock that goes by, there's always a new person coming out of nowhere who's being laid off or negotiated. Yes, there is a great, very great need for people there, and it must be touched by all the messages that each of us, as Members of Parliament, is bound to receive. Only the number of people laid off in Uusimaa and the number of people in negotiations is about 200,000, and there are nearly 1,400 employers, which means that we are talking about huge sums in Uusimaa alone. And then we'll be looking for those life-saving rings that we can support those entrepreneurs in. Among other things, the municipality of Inkoo, a small municipality in Uusimaa, has decided not to collect rents from these small entrepreneurs. But then, Mr President, when we also have those companies that continue to operate very well — and it is a great thing that there is a strong strength for the company to succeed and succeed — I would ask you, Minister: is this proposal in such a way that a company that could possibly survive this period of crisis could not participate in the temporary reduction of these premiums and could continue in a normal way? Could there be an application procedure, perhaps, that such an undertaking, which is doing well, should not be involved in this? How would you answer this question?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u168	Mr President! This presentation is now part of the puzzle that has many parts to help companies overcome this crisis. This is, therefore, a reduction of 2.6 percentage points in the share of employers' contributions in employment pension contributions on a fixed-term basis and subsequently, as if it were to be paid back. The challenge, of course, is that many companies are currently in a situation where even all workers are laid off and where it is like a struggle for survival, and then this good performance in itself may not be very helpful. Hopefully, we will have those companies that will pay back these occupational pension contributions at a later date. Of course, this proposal in itself is to be welcomed. In this regard, Mr Juvonen himself raised the very right idea that in a motion of this kind, which is brought on such a busy schedule — and good so that it is brought on a fast schedule — it is of course very challenging to make such a case-by-case consideration if you want it to come into force quickly and help those companies. Now there are different surveys and surveys from both Finnish Entrepreneurs and EK, and the message from that field is very harsh: it is actually a minority of companies who see that this situation is not as if it were affecting them in any way. Even social and health care companies, for example, suffer from the situation even though they have customers. But when that other normal activity is seriously disrupted, this unfortunately affects almost the entire business field. It is therefore perhaps justifiable that this is a situation that affects everyone, even if the company itself has the ability to pay at the moment. Earlier here in Question Time, Prime Minister Marin said that you in the government would also like to listen to the opposition's proposals and take them into consideration. The Coalition Party has therefore put forward a long list of measures to help companies in this situation. We suggested, among other things, that these employers' contributions should be paid by the State for a fixed period. Has this been considered, or is it the case that this is the way it is now being done? Is it your intention to consider now, when the duration of the crisis is perhaps known in some way, the possible follow-up measures for these measures now being announced? It is perhaps good to point out here that we representatives really have a very short period of time. It is quite right, in itself, that we should try quickly to get to grips with what we are able to do in this referral debate, and the committee will then do its actual work and carefully study it. The chairman of the committee has said that this is going to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and I am sure that there will be careful consideration of this matter. I think it is very important that, in this situation, when we have exceptional arrangements here in Parliament and there are so few representatives here and there at all times, Parliament's capacity to act will remain this way and we will be able to put forward proposals here on a timely basis. I must say that now that the spending limits are still in place next week, I would like to express a keen wish in the direction of the government that now that we have made proposals from here both through the public and directly to the government, you will take them seriously and look at them. There are certainly messages, concerns that come — not necessarily from us as a party, but from citizens and entrepreneurs — and then from us in your direction. I hope that you or someone from your staff will be able to learn enough about them to see that, in this situation, when entrepreneurs and, as a result, business workers are in very great trouble, they will find all the support they can to ensure that, after this crisis, we will make it possible for as many of these companies as possible to continue and, as far as possible, to maintain jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u169	Mr President! In fact, I should like to add something to Mr Multala's speech when he referred at the beginning of his speech to the fact that this 2.6% reduction in the earnings-related pension contribution for entrepreneurs is not necessarily now clearly direct towards those companies that are in the greatest difficulty. If you have to lay off, not to mention lay off, people, you don't have to pay your earnings-related pension contributions, and this discount won't do you any good in that situation. However, I am not opposed to this philosophy, and this is also a good basis for this, because the majority of companies are suffering from the economic effects of the corona crisis, and now we have to find all the ways to meet them. Undoubtedly, employment pension insurance contributions and the pension funds behind it are Finland's largest financial resource, which has been passively used for decades, and it has only been increased. After all, last year — the background to this is good to see what we are currently talking about — 2019 was the growth year of the biggest funds in our employment pension history. Real return was 11.5 per cent, the funds grew by over EUR 20 billion to a record 215 billion. It is already practically close to 100% of GDP, and it is the largest public pension fund reserve in the world that has been collected for future pensions. After all, in other parts of the world, it is mainly a practice not to be funded in this way. In Germany, it has already been a long history in which pension resources have been reduced to various crises since World War I and II, and there is a system there, as well as in France, where the present working generation always pays for the previous generation of pensions. That is the practice, and in any case, this reserve has been created in Finland, which we now have some room for compromise, which is exactly what this government proposal is doing here. However, I would like to ask the Minister when he is here: There's one dimension here that's interesting: these customer credits. The Finnish pension system is, as has been said, one of the most financially sustainable, the best pension systems in the world — the Mercer Global Pension Index tells us this — but it is cost-effective. So it is an expensive system, and one of the most expensive components here are these customer credits, which in themselves do not belong to the nature of the pension system at all. Over EUR 400 million was spent on them last year, a huge sum of money that is passed over this basic task of the pension system, which is to collect occupational pension contributions and pay pensions. Those customer credits have been deliberately used as a means of attracting employers to change pension companies. This has also been criticised internationally, and the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority has also wanted to assess this. When Mr Satonen asked about unemployment security for entrepreneurs, could it be a model for the future, I ask the Minister: could this be a model for us to genuinely re-evaluate in Finland this whole system of customer credit, which is by its nature an abuse of pension funds? We are talking about pension funds being collected for pensions, and these customer credits are being transferred on this scale, with over 400 million shares last year, money for companies — for the largest companies as a rule, this is not necessarily even a benefit for the smallest companies. In this respect, I would like to ask whether it is now possible to test this issue too in this crisis situation, when we have a little bit of this kind of laboratory situation in many other areas of Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u170	Mr President, värderade talman! Förslaget att tilfälligt till detta års slut sänka på arbetsgivarnas andel av arbetstagarnas pensförsäkringsavgifter är mycket välkommet i detta svåra läge. Företagen är i stora ekonomiska svårigheter och allt vi kan göra för att lätta på deras betalningsbörda ska också göras, också sådana aimindre åtgärder. Det beräknas att avgifternas total minskar med Circa 1 billion med denna åtgård. Återbetalningen sker under åren 2022 to 2025, Vilket betyder att arbetsgivarnas börda sprids ut på flera år, och därför inte kanses alltför betungande.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u171	Mr President! We are now dealing with the temporary reduction of the employee's contribution under the Pensions Act this year. According to it, the employer's contribution would be temporarily reduced by 2.6 percentage points, which is a welcome step in this acute situation, where our company and many, many employers are at the moment. The reduction would apply from the beginning of May to the end of the year. The reduction in compensation due to the reduction in the contribution would be covered by a temporary increase in the employer's contribution between 22 and 25 to compensate for the full effect of the temporary reduction. When we make such changes in an instant, in which the investment wealth of pension institutions has melted into a lion's share in an instant, it is very important that such compensation is taken care of as part of the whole. Our shared responsibility is to ensure the sustainability of the pension system not only in the next few years but also in the next few decades. As far as pension systems are concerned, we are not talking about just a few years, but about several decades to come. Knowing, however, that business challenges will continue for years, I can see that there is also a central problem in this point of this proposal, namely that relief will come in the form of new increases in the years to come, but we will see that the economic situation of companies will certainly not soon be corrected afterwards. We have therefore proposed that employers' contributions should be paid by the State for a fixed period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u172	Mr President! Today, too, there have been quite a number of speeches in this Chamber about how these decisions have even been praised outside the house. Well, it may be that we have different circuits. I've been trying here for a week to hunt down an entrepreneur who would tell me about the positive things, that now it looks good that I think I'm going to be saved. I am grateful to the government for having such practices, but I must say here too that if we talk about such a reduction in the TyEL contribution of 2.6% — which, in this case, in fact, is a loan only, of course, they will not have to pay back who goes bankrupt in the meantime — then this will surely be a gross figure of between 20 and 30 euros per month. How many companies do you think they can't get 20s per employee in a month? That same amount is collected almost from the empty bottles on the floor of the coffee room. In other words, I have to say that I wonder if we are not really able to make decisions that we are actually able to save our businesses, because this is such a fuss that we are not actually saving anyone with these. And if I am wrong, my phone number may be shared with those entrepreneurs who are currently being saved by these government performances. I'd like to go there and study. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u173	And now, ladies and gentlemen, the 30 minutes reserved for this debate, apart from Mr Pekonen's closing remarks, have been spent. 3 to 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u174	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank you for your very good and constructive contributions, and I would also like to begin by expressing my regret at this urgent timetable. This is why I thought it important for the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to have received these government proposals which we are now discussing, even during the course of this day, in committee. Congressman Essayah asked about these customer credits. Occupational pension insurance companies may not grant customer credits to the extent that credits have accumulated during the period of the payment reduction, i.e. from May to December 2020, but customer credits accumulated during the previous period may of course be granted. Representatives Juvonen and Multala drew attention to well-performing companies. You asked whether they needed to take part in this rebate, but, as Mr Rehn-Kivi has already said here, we have now tried to take measures which can be implemented as lightly and quickly as possible from an administrative point of view. Finally, Mr Multala, the entrepreneurs themselves are supported by other means, which Minister Lintilä and Minister Haatainen are responsible for, so that YEL payments are not made by the State in this context. Mr Kiljunen, you asked about the need for customer credit at all, but I must say that, in this very busy time, when we are making these proposals, we have not been able to make a thorough assessment of this issue in this context of the corona crisis. To what Mr Laakso has said, of course, this is an attempt to put together a package of small pieces which would make it as easy as possible for companies in this very serious situation. And this proposal, which we are currently discussing in this Chamber, is one part of this package as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u175	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u176	We will now resume the debate on item 15, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u177	Mr President! This government proposal is perhaps one of the best of today's performances. There is no unnecessary bureaucracy here. This fixed-term reduction in the earnings-related pension contribution would apply to all employers' enterprises, including those large companies which largely manage the fact that SMEs have orders and jobs. This is a billion-dollar issue, a little bit more than EUR 2 billion. Someone here felt that not all employers should have this, but that is, how politely to put it, a rather helpless thought that this too would create some wonderful bureaucracy and begin to sort out employers' businesses. This is now a very rapid and very bureaucratic correction of the liquidity of businesses. This is significant liquidity support for Finnish companies quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u178	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u179	Mr President! In the Government's proposal for legislation on the financing of unemployment benefits, the Act on the financing of unemployment benefits and the Act on the Unemployment Fund, it is a question of improving the financial position of people in need of unemployment benefit. We are living in a time when the COVID-19 pandemic, the national coronavirus epidemic, is weakening the situation in the labour market and news of the needs of companies and municipalities to lay people off now seems daily. Parliament has also already adopted the proposals contained in the Government's proposal 26/2020 on flexibility of labour law, which have an impact on the situation of private sector workers in the lay-off procedure. The Government's proposal now under discussion proposes that the period of own resources set at the start of the payment of unemployment benefit, which is five working days or equivalent, should be paid as basic daily allowance, earnings-related allowance or labour market support. This change would improve the financial position of recipients of unemployment benefit at the start of unemployment or lay-off. The State would be responsible for the financing of the unemployment benefit paid for the period of own responsibility. This does not undermine the economic situation of the Employment Fund or unemployment funds. In addition, the employee's working condition, which is a prerequisite for receiving basic or earnings-related daily allowance, would be reduced. For non-owner family members, the working condition would be 26 calendar weeks, while it is now 52 calendar weeks. The working condition for other employees would be 13 calendar weeks, while it is now 26 calendar weeks. This change would facilitate access to basic or earnings-related daily allowance and reduce access to labour market support. The proposal also proposes that unemployment allowance paid on the basis of lay-off does not consume the maximum contribution period for unemployment allowance, which is either 300, 400 or 500 days due to the person's employment history and age. This change will ensure that our kind of national speciality, in which, in the event of lay-off, people are transferred to unemployment benefit, does not consume the duration of protection in this uncertain situation. This change would therefore improve security if unemployment were prolonged. In addition, during the preparatory work, there has been listening to the concerns raised in the everyday implementation work regarding lay-offs if the lay-off is based on an agreement reached at the initiative of the employer. In these situations, the right to unemployment benefit may already arise. In order to avoid interpretation challenges, the full application practice, which should be well established at the level of the law, is raised and opened at the level of the law, in line with the guidance given by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to unemployment funds that the right to unemployment benefit may also be based on contractual lay-off within the meaning of the Employment Contracts Act. The proposal relates to the second draft amending budget for 2020 and is intended to be dealt with in connection with it. The laws are intended to enter into force as soon as possible and will remain in force until 6.7.2020. The amendments would apply from 16 March 2020. They are therefore proposed to enter into force retroactively and would already have an effect if the lay-off procedure had started before the law came into force, which is as soon as possible. The application of the amendments has been aligned with the changes in the aforementioned Government proposal 26/2020, and the current outlook is that there is a need for changes at the end of June. However, the proposal takes note of the fact that a shorter lay-off notice period could be applied if that period had started by 30 June at the latest. Therefore, the right to benefit for the benefit period and the shorter working conditions would also apply to the first week of July.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u180	Thank you, Minister Pekonen. — And now, ladies and gentlemen, if possible, summarise your message so that as many colleagues as possible can speak in the remaining 24 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u181	Mr President! This proposal concerns persons who are laid off or dismissed, whether in a fixed-term or temporary employment relationship. The abolition of qualifying days for all whose working conditions are met is a big hand-out that the workers now need. Removing the five-day allowance will have a major impact on the employee's economy. This is a fair move. This law has also taken into account the fact that all, i.e. all, apply to the fulfilment of the 13-week working condition, and does not require 26 weeks, as is normally the case in the past. We must also remember to ensure that Kela and the cashiers are able to function in order to deal with the red tape challenges. Mr President! This bill is equal. Even if you finish your salary, the bread and the heat will still pay. This is a fair and socially sustainable policy, thanks to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u182	Mr President! First of all, I support all these concrete proposals in the government proposals, but I would like to highlight one point that has been made both publicly and in this Chamber several times these days: the ability of unemployment funds and also Kela to deal rapidly with a huge number of applications, implement decisions and help people — that is not going to happen next year to deal with these improvements in social security, which are absolutely vital for the layoffs, for the unemployed, for their livelihood. This is the most important message I would like to say to the government: solutions must be found. It is not necessarily the case that any system solutions, technical, technological solutions, which would require coding. We don't have time to wait for that. I would like to point out in this debate that a couple of hours ago I received a proposal for a solution from my former colleague, Mr Manninen, and with his permission I will tell you what he is saying in concrete terms: ‘I would like to see a simple solution: 1) Employers calculate unemployment benefit in advance. The calculation of unemployment benefits cannot be such a rocket science that, for example, the payroll of companies with more than 20 employees could not be carried out when the unemployment fund gives instructions and a formula. On this basis, companies would calculate the compensation for the unemployment fund in order to make a preliminary decision. 2) The possibility for unemployment funds to pay advances. Legislation must create an opportunity for cashiers to pay advances if there is no such thing at the moment. In this case, the unemployment fund could pay advances directly on the basis of a list of employers. After the cashier has checked the decisions, even within six months, the payments will be checked, and if the difference exceeds a certain threshold, an additional payment or recovery will be made. Only small employers' applications would be dealt with as a matter of urgency for unemployment funds. 3) Unemployment funds reimburse employers for their expenses. Since the treatment of compensation is an obligation of the cashiers, they must reimburse the costs incurred by employers in accordance with the principles to be agreed upon. 4) As simple a model as possible for laid-off persons. This would be in line with the principle that the individual needer of assistance should not go into the jungle of bureaucracy, but that measures should be taken on its own initiative by the authorities. This is the guiding principle of bureaucracy.” Perhaps I should like to say to this that we really are not able to study this. This has come before us today, and we urgently need to take this forward, and I do not think that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health can make such major changes without separate preparation, so I hope that the Minister and the officials in the Ministry will be able to examine this proposal. I'm going to e-mail this to you in a few minutes for examination. Finally, it is also best to listen to those executives who have the concrete idea and the knowledge of how this work in practice. I think we have 24 cashiers plus then the entrepreneurs' own employment fund and then, of course, Kela, and I think their expertise and experience is particularly important when you think about this. This as it is, not as a mandatory advice, but I think there are so many good elements here that I would like you to examine this in the Ministry. And we are ready here in Parliament to deal quickly again, if that is the emnika to make this easier. Implementation cannot stand in the way of this good government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u183	Mr President! This government proposal is also being discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. According to this proposal, the benefit would be paid in the form of a basic daily allowance, earnings-related allowance or labour market support in the event of the start of the unemployment benefit. The State would be responsible for the financing of the unemployment benefit paid for the period of own responsibility. In addition, the employee's condition of employment, which is a prerequisite for receiving unemployment allowance, would be reduced. The proposal also proposes that the unemployment allowance paid on the basis of lay-off should not exceed the maximum period for payment of unemployment allowance. The definition of lay-off in the Unemployment Security Act would be specified at the level of the law in line with the established application practice. Mr President! In plain language: the purpose of this bill is to improve the status of the recipient of unemployment benefit, and the proposal is good. Last week, I have tabled a written question on the congestion of the TE Offices and the bottlenecks that may be ahead of us, for example, by the time this proposal moves forward. I should like to ask you, Minister: how are these bottlenecks in the treatment of unemployment benefits and income support, among other things, possibly being dismantled in the unemployment funds and in the Employment and Economic Development Offices? If close to 400,000 people are under negotiation and risk of lay-off, it is a matter of a large number of people, and this means an additional resource for those who handle benefits and pay for them. I would ask you to take this into account, then, that people are able to have its social security system smoothly, because that is what this is all about: people are waiting for their money.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u184	Mr President! This government proposal is, as it were, a counterpart to what has previously been discussed here: once it has been possible to lay off both permanent and temporary workers through a more rapid procedure, it is quite right and good that we now bring the proposal which will allow workers, at this stage laid off workers, to be able to benefit from unemployment benefit more quickly and retrospectively, and it is a very worthy proposal. In fact, I do not believe that there will be any problems with this proposal itself, the legislative amendment here in Parliament, but that it will certainly be progressing, but this chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will be the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The concern raised by the Vehvilite is true. As soon as these proposals have been taken forward from Parliament, the concerns of both Kela and the unemployment funds have been heard that applications are now being made at such a rate that they are being feared even at the turn of the year, that the money will be received, and all the proposals and proposals to dismantle this sum will certainly make sense to look carefully at whether they might be capable of making this payment speedier. I know that many entrepreneurs have had a great deal of concern about their own employees: my own husband is an entrepreneur, and they had to lay off their staff, and many workers are young and would have liked to have been able to help in some way, and this representative. The proposal that the Vehvilian has just read out would certainly have been exactly what they would have liked to have done in order to speed up the payment of unemployment benefit for their employees. I am sure that we now need to mobilise all the resources that we already have in order for people to make their living as quickly as possible. Now, hopefully, the situation is only temporary, and of those who, if you can say so, can or will be covered by this unemployment benefit, I hope that as many people as possible will only be temporarily involved in it and then get back to their former job or at least to a similar job as soon as possible. But there are not many very large savings, but as if we are moving forward on its monthly income, and while there is now a message from Kela that there is also a delay in the processing of income support applications, I hope that the Minister will be able to bring a little light to the end of the tunnel, perhaps even now, by responding to the concern about how this processing line could be dismantled as quickly as possible so that people can get money to buy the things they need to earn daily income and pay for example for their housing and food.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u185	Mr President! Now we are united by the central goal that the health and livelihood of Finns must also be safeguarded in times of crisis, and that is why it is great to see the flexibility and diligence that have been put into this challenge. As soon as the draft amending budget came to Parliament, Kela told the Committee on Finance that they had already considered how to increase flexibility, how to deal with applications more exorbitantly, i.e. not ask for all the explanations that would normally be requested, when it is recognised that during this period these studies may be difficult or even impossible to provide. Many of the conditions for social security are now impossible to meet, and now, as it should be, we have reached the end of the legislative process. This is indeed the right thing to do in the middle of a crisis, because, as I said, this is driving many into a situation where they never thought they would find themselves. The number of applications is also so exceptional that the more red tape can always be reduced, the easier it will be to process benefits and ensure that people get their money as quickly as possible. Perhaps the worrying message that has come from all over Finland is how the doors of services have been closed from Finns. Of course, when it comes to Kela's office or social services offices, it is understandable that people's safety should be guaranteed and interest rate instructions followed, but it must be borne in mind that we have the most vulnerable Finns who may not have access to the Internet at all. The library may have been the only place to access the computer, and now the library is closed. In this situation, you may miss a phone bill or a lost or broken phone without replacing it, which means that not everyone may even have access to the phone, or there may be operational difficulties that make it insurmountable to call and book time. That is why, for the sake of this rather small group, it is important that, with some limited opening hours, people should still be able to seek the necessary income from Kela and the social welfare office, be able to access their services face-to-face, if necessary, at security intervals, of course, with sufficient equipment, but at the same time ensuring that no one's livelihood is caught up in the fact that these new remote services cannot be reached. Still, when you consider what this situation does to such things as homelessness, substance abuse, violence, many other challenges in society, it is becoming increasingly important to take care of those who are disadvantaged in this situation. These may not be the people who email us and call us. In definition, we are talking about people to whom such contacts with politicians are not characteristic, but nevertheless we must remember them and try to ensure that their rights are also fulfilled. This has also been repeatedly pointed out by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the report before us today has specifically pointed out that it is now important to instruct all actors at local level in the fact that door closure cannot be done in such a way that, as far as the most vulnerable Finns are concerned, the services disappear completely. So even in these times it is important to make sure that everyone really gets the necessary income. Of course, this is also influenced by the way in which Kela, the unemployment funds, social welfare offices can be made to work. This is something that many representatives have drawn attention to, and there will certainly be additional resources and opportunities, but it would be important to remember that some people may not even have access to these types of benefits. Therefore, it is important to keep that discretionary income support and care for those who are already disadvantaged in mind at all times.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u186	Mr President! We are therefore dealing with the Government's proposal for a law on the temporary amendment of the Act on Unemployment Security, the Act on the Financing of Unemployment Benefits and the Act on the Unemployment Fund. These are, of course, important proposals in this time. If you think about it, we currently have less than a month of this corona swamp and we already have possibly 300,000 laid off people. And as the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Vehviläinen, pointed out from these statistics, the number of layoffs has increased by over 10,000 in the last 24 hours. As far as the unemployment fund is concerned, I would just like to say briefly that there is the same concern that Mr Multala raised here. I am not going to repeat that speech. So the effects are really big if you think that the financial impact highlights that last year there were about 129,000 periods of income security and about 40,000 of these were laid off. Based on the economic forecasts received at the time of writing this motion and the amounts already made unemployed as a result of the crisis and under the risk of lay-off, a rough estimate of the number of new laid-off persons ending up in income security can be considered about 200,000 persons, and if, moreover, the number of persons who remain directly unemployed without lay-off increases by 20000 persons, the number of months of own responsibility on the earnings security side can be estimated at around 263,000. That's a lot of money. The fact that this week also came into force a law in which a fixed-term employee is now able to lay off for the first time in Finland also, of course, brings that pressure to this side. It is known that many such people, including seasonal workers, as well as sports clubs, coaches, players, have been in fixed - term employment and have not been able to lay off at all in the past. But now that this is the situation, the layoffs are also there on the side. It would also be hoped that the group of sports, sports and voluntary activities, in which lay-offs have been introduced with unprecedented speed, could be supported by these government proposals. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u187	Mr President! It is an excellent thing that the labour market organisations were able to deal quickly with the relaxation of the lay-off conditions in this exceptional situation, and then reset this retention period for unemployment benefits. It is also important, of course, that this condition of working is halved in order to qualify for unemployment benefit and that it does not take up the payment period for unemployment benefit, since, exceptionally, this lay-off is now paid as if an additional unemployment allowance were paid. I could encourage you to take into account the good proposal made by ex-Minister Manninen there in his chamber. It could well reduce the cost of society, although of course it must then be reimbursed to the person who does its work. It is not particularly desirable for Kela to hire hundreds and perhaps thousands of employees to handle these applications. Surely, as Mr Manninen suggests, they are just as well able to count them in those companies, and the need for revision can be quite small. This would result in lower costs and would not create the unnecessary bureaucracy represented by these extra employees of Kela who, despite being unaccustomed to work and their high motivation, would spend an unnecessary amount of time on these applications compared to the corresponding time spent by companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u188	Mr President! This proposal is a counterpart to the proposal that was received earlier today from the government on reducing and facilitating conditions for entrepreneurs, self-employed and small entrepreneurs, labour market support, access to labour market support, and it is now a question of laying off people, improving their unemployment security and securing their status, and this is clearly against the workers. It is good that the government is acting as quickly as it has now done in these matters. There is a crying need for these reforms, this is important. And only to underline what the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Vehviläinen, has already said here: I hope that the unemployment funds will now be able to carry out this task. That's the critical question now. We come here in many ways as legislators, the government has made fine proposals, and now it must also happen in real life that these are not just delayed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u189	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I would like to say from the outset that this concern is indeed common and we are really working in the government to make payments smooth in this crisis situation. This week we have had a meeting with all the unemployment funds and with Kela representatives on Skype, as is the case at this time. With regard to Mr Vehviläinen's question, and also Mr Malmin's, current legislation already allows these advances to be paid and this procedure to be streamlined, in cooperation with the executives, and other measures to speed up the payment are being prepared. And, indeed, all ideas are now very much welcomed. These ideas of ex-college Manninen are also received by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and we read them carefully. But I hope that these ideas, which you, ladies and gentlemen, can send out this week, will make progress. In reply to Mr Juvonen, the funds for Kela and the unemployment funds are being increased and measures are also being prepared to speed up payment and also to reform procedures and legislation in order to make payments smooth. This situation is extremely serious and we have already received a number of proposals which have now been discussed together with the executives to facilitate this situation. Mrs Suomela, I would like to say from these offices in Kela that we have taken this seriously. And Kela's operations are such functions that they cannot be managed only online or by telephone, because people need these services and they may not have an online connection or a telephone. This is why you can visit Kela's offices face-to-face with the help of the appointment booking service, make an appointment with the office. And if these Kela offices have to be closed — for example, because there are not enough resources there, we also have to transfer customer servants to benefit treatment in this situation — then it must be possible to reach the Kela office in an acute situation, even if the doorbell is ringing. Income support is the responsibility of Minister Kiuru, but the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has also issued new recommendations on income support to deal with it, which are also aimed at facilitating the situation. And as far as Kela and the cashiers are concerned, there is also a need for a confidence leap in these exceptional circumstances. I believe that this is also what Mr Suomela has referred to, which means that we must now be able to reduce the number of these reports significantly when we are living under exceptional circumstances. We have also discussed this issue with every unemployment fund and also with the representatives of Kela.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u190	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u191	We will now resume the debate on item 16 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u192	Mr President! It's very brief that we can get to these other things tonight: In my opinion, it is very well founded that, now that it has been laid down quickly that, in this situation, lay-offs can be made quickly in order to ensure the continuity of businesses, the status of the labour force being laid off will also be improved. And this is a good presentation from the government to go hand in hand with these other proposals on managing the economic impact of this crisis. Indeed, Mr President, all I have to say here is what is ahead of us, for example, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The Vehviläinen pointed out that now that more than 300,000 Finns are at risk of layoff, they will probably be approaching 400,000, and then the processing of these daily allowance applications will become congested, so we must now insist in every way that people quickly receive money for their account at the point when the wage payment ends, because few economies have such savings that could be able to cope with this situation for many months. In this respect, it is also important to ensure that the government makes all the necessary proposals, so that doing the digital leap in dealing with these issues does not at least get caught up in legislation, but that the processes are now working as smoothly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u193	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Congressman Juvonen. — — — — Excuse me, Minister's introduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u194	Thank you, Mr President. I'm trying to show you all the government's presentations today. Mr President! The Government of Prime Minister Marin has outlined measures to deal with the corona virus situation in Finland, one of which was the provision of 3 months flexibility on request for the payment of earnings-related pension contributions under the Workers' Pensions Act and the Entrepreneur's Pensions Act. In addition to other sectors, the social changes caused by the Koronavirus have a significant impact on shipping. As a result of the closure of borders, for example, foreign passenger transport has almost ceased and shipping companies have been driven into a liquidity crisis due to a sharp decline in turnover. In addition, in the case of a pension contribution under the Maritime Pensions Act, it should therefore be possible to allow flexibility in the payment period and thus facilitate the difficult financial situation of shipowners. According to the proposal, at the request of the shipowners, the Marine Pension Fund may transfer the due date of the contribution under the Maritime Pensions Act for a maximum period of 3 months. During the transfer of the due date, the shipowner would not pay interest on the pension insurance contribution. The amendment proposed in the proposal is not estimated to have any economic impact on the State. The proposal would reduce the costs otherwise incurred by shipowners for delays in pension insurance contributions, as no interest would be payable for the period of transfer of the proposed due date. The proposed amendment is temporary and applies to payments due between 10 April and 31 July 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u195	Mr President! This is a government proposal which is also being discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The proposal proposes to amend the Maritime Pensions Act. The aim of the proposal is to give shipowners in difficult economic situations flexibility in paying occupational pension contributions. Under the proposal, at the request of the shipowner, the Maritime Pension Fund may transfer the due date of the contribution under the Maritime Pensions Act for a maximum period of 3 months and without any interest on delay. The proposal is part of the measures to deal with the coronavirus situation in Finland. Mr President! The interest is on land, at sea and in the air. Interest will have an impact on the survival and survival of all the players involved, and in that sense it is good that this proposal is here as well. There have been many legislative proposals today, and one can say that they are so-called short-term laws. This law is also intended to remain in force until the end of the year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u196	Mr President! This is a sister to the bill that was here earlier on about occupational pension contributions in general, and this is where the shipowners come in, because it is a matter of sailors. I renewed the same idea as when this customer credit system is now apparently included in this bill, that this is a test for us now, how we could in fact gradually get rid of this whole customer credit system, which is not part of the built-in nature of our pension system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u197	Mr President! I shall now make a general statement of this kind. This bill is excellent, like everyone else, what you have brought here to meet you in this situation and with such a short time. I think that is a good thing, and that is one of them. That which was discussed was also one of them, and here are some of these. It is a good thing that you have taken these matters forward very quickly, Mr Pekonen, and have made these proposals, and we will of course do our best here to take them as quickly as possible. In this connection, I would also like to remind you that Kela has also received a request from taxi companies to help transport corona patients, but they need an amendment to the regulation so that, for example, they can collect a little more from them. I suggest that it also be carried along as quickly as possible. But I trust you, Minister Pekonen, you have turned out to be a very turbulent minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u198	Mr President! I share Mr Risiko's thanks for my part as well. This proposal is also part of a set of measures decided to alleviate the challenges posed by the corona virus situation. The aim of these policies is to protect the entire population and to safeguard the functioning of society and the economy. At this point, the aim of the proposal is to give shipowners in difficult economic situations flexibility in paying occupational pension contributions. The social changes caused by the Koronavirus also have a significant impact on shipping, as, among other things, the closure of borders has almost brought an end to foreign passenger traffic. Shipowners are in a liquidity crisis and shipping organisations have agreed on layoffs. President! Thank you for this performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u199	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u200	Mr President! With this government proposal, it is proposed to add a new article to the Unemployment Fund Act on the way in which the cashier's meeting is to be attended. The new provision would allow for participation in the cashier's meeting using technical tools. Technical assistance could include real-time image or sound communication. This provision would make it possible to organise the meeting in full through telecommunications without the participants being present at the same meeting place. It is proposed that the proposal should enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u201	I can say here that once Parliament has also moved on to these electronic meetings, to electronic procedures, it must also be done by the unemployment fund. But let us stress once again that, once these improvements have been made to unemployment security, we will now also see to it that these unemployment funds work. It does not matter to the public that we are, as it were, coming from here if, in practical life, these unemployment funds and Kela do not work with the efficiency that is needed in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-44.u202	Mr President! I was surprised when my speech disappeared from there, even though I am there — I am not far away. Fortunately, however, I was able to take the floor again. Mr President! This bill is in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and it will be dealt with as a matter of urgency, and this is a technical change. The proposal proposes that a new provision be added to the Unemployment Fund Act on the way in which the cashier meetings are to be attended. The new article would provide for the possibility of remote participation in a cashier's meeting. This increase will be made for the sake of clarity and would allow a cashier's meeting to be organised using technical tools, for example in the context of widespread infectious disease. So the corona is also on this issue. More and more Finnish workers are currently working at a distance, using technical aids. But there are also sectors and professions in which there is no remote work to be done. These include border guards, police officers, nurses — even now they are in their jobs, i.e. they have to be there. On the other hand, technical aids are already being used much more than in this corona crisis, including care for the elderly. After all, there has been a saving point that technical aids can be used to assist, for example, an elderly person in home care. These are question marks, which may then not be as easy to implement as, for example, this bill, which, as it stands, is to be welcomed. Anyone who can should act at a distance at this dangerous moment, thereby avoiding the transmission of this virus, including the conventioners. These are very welcome proposals.
