ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 5/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 23 April 2020. In the debate, Ville Vähämäki, supported by Mr Junnila, has proposed that the proposal under protest 1 be taken as the basis for the debate, Timo Heinonen, supported by Arto Satose, proposed that the proposal under objection 2 be taken as the basis for the debate, and Sari Essayah Sari Tanus proposed that the proposal under objection 3 be taken as the basis for the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u2	Proposals on the basis of the discussion shall be put to the vote. Mr Heinonen's proposal is put to the vote against Ville Vähämäki's proposal, then against Sari Essayah's proposal, and finally against the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u3	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject a draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u4	Mr President! There is a government proposal and a report from the committee, accompanied by an objection from the Finns of Peru regarding the law on temporary support for a person absent from work due to the corona virus epidemic. The purpose of the Act is to compensate the parent for loss of pay and to secure income when the parent has followed the recommendations made by the Government in connection with the prevention of the coronavirus epidemic in early childhood education or contact teaching in basic education, including during exceptional circumstances, regarding the care of the eligible child at home. This benefit would also be paid to those arriving in Finland from abroad who have been directed to combat the corona virus epidemic under conditions similar to quarantine and who are therefore unpaidly absent from their gainful employment. The True Finns have objected to this government proposal. The articles have already been voted on and I now present our three statements relating to this objection. This government proposal addresses both the right of parents to stay and care for children under the age of 10 under these exceptional circumstances and the possibility for seasonal workers to come and work in a two-week quarantine period. In the opinion of the Finns Party, it is very important that those who are currently unemployed or at risk of unemployment or under the threat of collective bargaining or are temporarily laid off can also leave for seasonal work if they so wish. We have made a statement which reads as follows: ‘The Commission requires the government to step up its efforts without delay to bring about temporary legislation, in order to ensure that, as a result of the COVID-19 epidemic,undeclared or laid-offpersons can respond to seasonal This has been the performance of the Finns. Then two further statements relate to the possibility for parents of children over 10 years of age to stay and care for the child in exceptional circumstances, such as family carers or if the child is ill or disabled or other such important reasons exist. We also want family carers to be covered by this law, especially when the child is over 10 years old. The draft opinion reads: ‘The Commission calls for the government to become involved without delay in measures to enable aid “ And the following statement: ‘The Board of Directors requires that there be no delays in the government’s action to enable the correspondingaid to be paid to theindependent nurse
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u5	Mr President! This government proposal is all in favour, and I must say that there are things in the protests and statements made by the Finns on which they are based, and of course I wish we could have been a little more specific in that committee — in fact, on that point last week, I voted against this paragraph, particularly in relation to the fact that it is possible to pay support to the parent of a child who is in need of special support, who is studying at a higher education age or at a secondary level because of his disability or illness. Last week, at that first reading, I heard the chairman of the committee, Mr Vehviläinen, saying that the committee was only able to take a look at this issue. Of course, there would have been a need for further clarification of how many situations of this kind exist. But these messages come from the field that, for example, when it comes to young people with mental disabilities who are in these housing units, the same strict measures have been taken in these housing units as on that side of care for the elderly, i.e. visits may have been banned from those who are very close to them, and in that sense many homes have considered this and then taken home a young person with a child with a child who is already a child. On the other hand, these situations in the family have caused how the day-to-day life can be run if there is telework or if there are parents working in sectors where there is no teleworking opportunity. In that sense, of course, it would have been a good idea to raise this issue again. It is important in this committee's report that these zero-hour contractees have also been taken into account, and in that sense it is all right that even those who are absent from atypical employment relationships have been included in this compensation. It is also important to take into account this situation of family carers, in which the family carer works but is still a family carer, because these family carers are usually either these disabled young people, for example, or then many times the situation may be that it is an older person, who should in any case be protected by these tough measures. In that sense, it must be said that this other statement, which has been proposed here on the part of the Finns, is certainly to be welcomed in substance. Mr President! All in all, it is good that the government has managed to move forward with this kind of proposal on a timely basis, and this will enable the economic situation of many families to be maintained at least in some way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u6	Mr President! This proposal should indeed be commended to the government. I must say that it was a positive surprise that such a proposal was brought to Parliament at all. Indeed, we have many families where parents or one parent has been forced to stay home to care for a child’s distance education or care for a small child, and not everyone has the opportunity to do telework. Quite often, it is these people who do not have the opportunity to work at a distance but who have not been paid at home that are already low-paid, and in that sense it is important that this support be allocated to them. It is a pity, however, that there have been gaps in these pons of the Finns, and it would have been a good thing if the committee had been able to correct these gaps. In other words, we also have family carers who have had to leave their own paid work unpaid so that they can take care of the safety of their family members during this corona epidemic. Similarly, there are unpaid periods for disabled children, even children who have already reached compulsory school age or who are studying at secondary school. I am in favour of these contributions, and I would like to draw attention to this objection to the draft statement which proposes that a person who has been laid off or laid off in respect of seasonal work should be able to keep his unemployment benefit in addition to his seasonal pay. Of course, this is not a long-term solution, but at this temporary stage, in which seasonal workers are particularly and desperately needed, I think that this too should be supported. But in the long term, with the social security reform, we should be prepared for this type of situation to be supported at all times. [PresidentMattiVanhanen : Checking :did Mr Räsänen support all three motions for resolutions? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u9	Mr President! This law applies to aid paid to absent persons in the event of an epidemic of interest rates. True Finns consider it important that parents can stay in emergency situations to care for children who need special support, and we also want to think about and ensure that they are supported. In addition, the Finns have supported tax-free informal care support and also want to ensure that the situation of parents and relatives of disabled children and children who otherwise need exceptional help is managed and, in a way, supported in their livelihoods. In other words, I support all these presentations and protests and statements made by the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u10	Mr President! This government proposal is most welcome, since we have, as a rule, moved to distance education in relation to basic education. It is understandable that many parents support their children in this situation of distance education, and those parents who work telework are able to provide that support, but many parents have also stayed in their homes to support their children with no pay, and in this respect this government proposal is the most important thing that is now also being supported by these families. The government clearly supports individuals, families and businesses in this difficult interest rate situation, and yesterday we had a lively debate on this support from Business Finland. Mr President, will you allow less than one minute' s repetition of that debate yesterday, because Mr Satonen is here in this Chamber? [The PresidentMattiVanhanen :I,Ess, when you asked. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u13	Mr President! This proposal is part of the broad package that will improve social security in the event of a corona crisis. I think it was a good idea to get this moving as quickly as possible. We have already heard from the Minister in the Chamber that we are now going to look at what is still missing and then we are going to promote the aid as soon as possible, because if we continue to refine every aid, then we will not even be able to get there halfway as fast as we should. It is therefore better to put forward proposals to support and help at least some of them, and then bring as soon as possible the next proposal to extend the support network again. I believe that such gradual progress has now been a good model in order to help as many as possible as quickly as possible. I agree with the idea that it is a pity that some of the people who support their families at home have been excluded from this support, but I think it is significant that it has already been specified at the committee stage that if a child receives special support or is subject to extended compulsory education, then this support also applies to parents and other relatives who support these children. Of course, it should also be noted that the need for support for many disabled people, for example, does not stop when he turns 18. It is therefore of particular importance that the Minister has already said in this Chamber that it is now clear how people who support these people can be better helped in this situation. In itself, this development of informal care is a continuous project and an important piece of work that the government has decided to take up in the past, because, of course, it is also necessary to look beyond the longer term needs of this crisis and, of course, whenever a person is able to help a loved one, it is worth giving it the support of society. But I believe that this has already shown great flexibility in the committee's deliberations in the fact that new groups of people have been taken into account and that we have also learned that those who have now been excluded will be supported in the future by new proposals. This is an imperfect but well-functioning and good way forward in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u14	Mr President! I would also like to pay tribute to the government and, of course, to the committee on this issue for the progress that has been made. Admittedly, this is an exceptional way, but there is also an exceptional situation. It is quite right that, in a situation when you have been forced to leave your home without pay, you should receive this kind of compensation. So, in principle, this proposal is quite welcome and, you can say, it is necessary in this situation, and the Group has also been very supportive of this. Mr President! In fact, I also asked to speak because I would like to make a few comments on the draft statements made by the people of Peru: Firstly, with regard to this matter of family carers, I am, in principle, very much in favour of this. Of course, in the case of those people who are full-time with the support of the carer, this situation will continue as it is now, but then, of course, there will be situations where we are working, but then we will actually be dealing with a family member of a high-risk group. Then, too, the risk may become excessive, especially if the job is one with a higher than average chance of becoming ill through the corona. This is quite the right suggestion, yes, what the Finns of Peru are proposing in this one. Similarly, the second paragraph of the motion for a resolution concerns people with mental disabilities and those who, as a rule, are not at home but who would now come home in this process. This is a small special group, but for those who are affected, this is a very necessary issue. In other words, I would also very much like to support Mrs Juvonen's proposal in this regard. On the other hand, Mr Juvonen's third proposal on the right to work at the same time and to receive unemployment benefit throughout this year, I cannot support it. [Jussi Halla-aho’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u15	Mr President! We deal with the Government's proposal for a law on temporary support for a absentee in the event of a corona virus epidemic. This proposal will be very much needed for these groups it is designed to apply to. In other words, it is a condition that you leave work because you have to take care of a child under the age of 10 at home, and the other group, which is also affected by this proposal, are these persons who have been quarantined, who may not be paid a salary during that period. It's important to consider them. The committee discussed the situation of family carers, those who care for the full-age mentally disabled and who then have to leave work because of it. It's also an important group. As Mr Satonen has pointed out here, it is not a large number of people, but it is a matter of real importance to those concerned. That is why I warmly support the proposals made by Mrs Juvose with regard to this support for carers and also with regard to this proposal for a statement on the issue of disabled people. In addition, the Finns of Peru had made a proposal regarding the possibility of receiving unemployment benefit and at the same time working in these critical sectors that suffer from labour shortages. The Coalition Party has previously proposed that this could be done over a period of one month. This would have made sense at the time, especially when these unemployment benefits were being processed, they were congested. For a month, that would certainly make sense, but there will also be questions about equality between different sectors and equal treatment of people for a longer period of time. Otherwise, there were also these zero-hour contracts, which are a bit of a difficult point: how much work has been done and what would have been the need for work during this time, during the crisis. That is why this report was also supplemented in committee by the fact that the committee drew attention to adequate guidance for employers to ensure equal treatment of workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u16	Mr President! First of all, we need the government to thank us for this proposal. Yes, it is good to have such a thing taken care of. Of course, I have to say that a little, a little bit, a little bit, I'm surprised that the informal care and the care and special care of the disabled are gone. Mr Suomela justified the urgency of having to do so, but we must remind the government that there are currently a record number of assistants there — someone could rightly call an army of assistants — that is to say, there should be people there who would have the capacity and the strength to do this as quickly as possible. Mr Satonen criticises that support for agricultural workers, and it is said that they think that a month should do this. There is also a little thing behind this: agriculture will also need so-called skilled people and will not be replaced by taking people through the Employment Office who do not have some kind of experience in the field. There are, for example, machine drivers or the like, who can drive tractors and all kinds of things. In its own field, employees' wages are between EUR 15 and EUR 16 per hour. Our one laid-off worker is likely to receive more support at the moment than what he would receive in the agricultural work there, which means that there will be an incentive trap that, if he did not benefit in any way from it, he would very easily not be leaving. After all, now the situation is that, if you think that you are laid off for 15 euros an hour, you actually get at home what you get at the farm. Now, though we are talking about equality, we must remember that we are in a special situation at the moment, that there is no farming on the farm, so to speak, even under the ground, let alone being allowed to collect it. They need a skilled team, and you can't really get that professional crew all over the place. I understand this equality well, but I hope that, in such a challenging situation, we will not go into the old Finnish tradition of being willing to pay a hundred bucks for not getting a 50-year-old neighbour. I don't think it's a good idea for me to start putting this bunch together. I am sure that those who have worked there for years will also realise that they need colleagues there, that we can get that done and that we can ensure security of supply. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u17	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank the government and the committee for bringing forward such a proposal, for aid to be paid to someone who is not paid for work, because as soon as this epidemic started and people stayed at home to care for children — for one reason or another such an arrangement had been concluded or had to be made — these inquiries came to the effect that how with this livelihood and where compensation is provided, and in what way. It is a great thing that both the government and the committee were able to work on the proposal at such a rapid pace. This is really necessary. It is understandable that, in this haste, there really have been some of these points, such as this matter of carers, and also those affected by this increased support. The Finns of Peru have made good proposals to supplement this proposal, and I warmly support this contribution, as well as the payment to family carers — those who have been forced to leave work without pay, in order to ensure safe care for family members — and also the parents of children who are under enhanced support, i.e. those who have already reached their compulsory school age, those who are studying at second grade, or those who need special support because of disability or illness. It is a very good thing that these proposals for statements have been made, and this can complement the government's proposal. I am also in favour of this proposal under protest 3, i.e. that if a person has been laid off or laid off due to an epidemic, he or she could participate in the seasonal work that is important for this security of supply without affecting that unemployment benefit this year. Just as the previous speaker has pointed out, it is precisely that we have many professions, many workers who could have a relatively good unemployment benefit at home and get sufficient income from it, but this is precisely an incentive for them to take up the work they really need, and in this way perhaps give them additional incentives to do the job this year. Perhaps next year there will also be more domestic workers for farms and gardens, and so on for these seasonal jobs, so that we will not be so dependent on foreign, I would say, labour and other production in the future, as has otherwise been the case in this area of security of supply in recent weeks. But this is a well-supported government proposal and also these additions made by the True Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u18	Mr President! I will take another floor on this subject when, in my first speech, I made the three-minute speech and I realised that it is the time to use it, but obviously there is also a chance to speak a little longer. I warmly thank all of you who have supported the statements made by the True Finns. It is a good thing that these statements bring up the issues of people who have forgotten about this government proposal, such as the situation of family carers and their children. The interest is particularly burdensome for families of disabled children, and family carers wonder how they can protect their own child — whether he is under 10 years of age or over 10 years of age or 18 years of age or 19 years of age — if he or she is ill. A child is always a child, even if he's already grown up. We have also had a lot of discussions about whether people with disabilities are at risk of a coronavirus epidemic, and that is one of the things we have heard about is that they do not belong — perhaps if there is a basic disease, which is why they should be — but this has been a big question mark. Mr President! Indeed, we are in a hurry to pass through these motions here in Parliament now, because we have an emergency situation here, but nevertheless, if the urgent proposal has not been made, then there may be loopholes in it, and we believe that this situation of family carers and their children has been one that should be corrected without delay. We had a debate on this in committee, and of course it is stated in this report that ‘the committee considers it necessary to clarify quickly the need for additional support for those who have beenrepresented’. In other words, it is said that ‘it is soon to be clarified’,but it does not mean that this report will lead to any of this,andthat we,the Finns of Peru,want to cast our hopes that the Thank you to the KD and the assembly for supporting our proposals. Well, then I would like to comment on our third statement to Mr Satonen about the fact that a Finnish person without losing his unemployment benefit could work in seasonal work. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in this statement we are talking about seasonal work, which is indeed seasonal work, and if a person who has been unemployed during it decides and wants and wants to increase it even further in his small purse — they are generally low-income people who are seeking additional jobs for themselves — it would be possible without losing social benefit. Now that I looked at the definition of seasonal work, I found — suddenly as I looked — that, for example, Migri’s website tells me that there are 3 to 6 months of seasonal work and 6 to 9 months of seasonal work. So it means these times, which means that we are not talking about longer, more permanent employment, but about seasonal work, and seasonal work is what is done in gardens, agriculture, strawberry picking, berry picking and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u19	Mr President! In this respect, representatives of the Finns Party Juvonen, Reijonen and Laakso have made very good speeches, and thank you also for the support of many, although it was not complete for everyone. For example, with regard to the majority, I believe that Mr Satonen had not incorporated this proposal because, as Mr Juvonen said, it is seasonal work that is at issue, and here, too, in our protest, the report talks about the fact that the Finns of Peruvian origin have put forward measures that would contribute to the large-scale availability of domestic labour by enabling work to be carried out on a seasonal basis in agriculture. Generally speaking, there is a section in the law and then there is a justification so that you can also apply for clarification there. So there was a misunderstanding, and perhaps it is now even possible that Mr Satonen will support this — let us see, let us see. Then Mrs Suomela said that we must understand that we are in a hurry and cannot refine these. As chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I must now disagree. We had amendments to bankruptcy law and amendments to the law on enforcement, and we looked at these very carefully. There were changes to the entry into force provisions, there were changes to the free months, they were completely unregulated. We also received feedback from the Chair of the Law Union, from Professor Tuula Linna of Process Law, and she says that this hearing went very well, from distance hearings and from this whole reading. As he says, ‘I felt that the Committee on Legal Affairs did not want to draw a line on the Then we would rather stretch out and come up with new ways of doing things, so that, despite the urgency, the quality of the legislation remains good. “ If you have found such clear gaps, which certainly could have been added here with even a little further clarification, when this is a very clear thing and here were, for example, these interest groups strongly in this opinion, then I do not know, yes the issue has now been something other than haste, may be more of a lack of will. When I looked at this committee's report, I did not even find any impetus here in the committee's actual report that the committee sent greetings to the government that this matter would be investigated, as the Finns of Finland put it. This is quite typical of the fact that the committee can still issue instructions, saying that it has now been an urgent matter, if that is the case, for example, and there has been no time to examine this issue, but it requires the government to examine the matter quickly and bring forward a proposal for this. So the question seems to be more of a lack of will.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u20	Three statements have been made during the debate, so we must put the matter to the vote. The votes will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings are adjourned and the sitting will resume at 1.45 p.m. in just over 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u21	The sitting adjourned at 1:38 p.m. and the 4th item on the agenda are now resumed. In the debate, Arja Juvonen, supported by Päivi Räsänen, has tabled a motion for a statement in accordance with the objection and proposals for statements 1 and 2, which have been distributed to the representatives, in duplicate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u22	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u23	Mr President! When you're on the inside, it seems you have to try to take a little time-out in these transitions. — Indeed, Mr President, it is of the utmost importance that this government proposal now facilitates the organisation of the annual meetings of various associations and companies in the spring. It makes it easier either to move these forward or to have the possibility of a distance meeting, even if it is not mentioned in the rules of these operators. This proposal is indeed necessary, and here we can only thank the committee for bringing things forward quickly. It is, of course, very possible that this exceptional time will change the way associations operate, perhaps permanently, and it may be that this kind of teleconference will become more and more common — certainly without beinglittled by the fact that it is extremely important, for example, for different ideological communities, to have access to dialogue on the ground and to meet others. They have many times also such social contact and social meeting places, ways to come together. Mr President! Without further ado: this government proposal can be warmly supported and taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u24	Mr President! This proposal provides for flexibility in organising various meetings, such as the general meeting, the cooperative meeting and the association meeting now during the corona epidemic and, among other things, increasing these opportunities for remote participation and advance voting. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has stated here that the overall assessment of these proposed changes does not significantly limit the ability of minority shareholders to influence decision-making in comparison with the current situation. I think that, although in many ways this corona epidemic is a very sad stage in our history, it is, on the other hand, an opportunity for a certain trial period, precisely for these various distance-share experiments. I think that even this period can now be seen as some kind of trial period, and then, I hope, conclusions will be drawn as to whether some of these flexibilitys would be possible to provide for permanent legislation as well. And yes, I think that, for example, this remote participation is one of the things that should be developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u25	Mr. Speaker! As the previous speakers have already pointed out, the question is that life should, however, go on in moderation, and I would say that legal life and legal life should continue in this period of COVID-19 coronation. We traditionally have spring time for general meetings, time for annual meetings of associations, time for statutory and statutory meetings of different communities, and certainly each of us 200 MPs has received dozens of messages and calls about how we do with the meeting of our housing company, how we organise the meeting of our party's local association and how, for example, a cooperative meeting is organised, how we should act here, and now the legislator reacts to this situation. The government has put forward proposals which, in this exceptional and exceptional period, during this interest rate, facilitate the meeting procedures of different communities and automatically introduce these remote possibilities. I would like to thank the parliamentary committees that have worked here. Many feedbacks from the field have been taken into account. I myself am aware that the special features of parties, for example, have been taken into account here. After all, parties are a bit of a kind of association. Many times in the party, meeting together and having a debate is more important than accepting the accounts, and then there are these political passions. I agree with Mr Räsänen. He spoke very well that this is a certain trial period and an experimental phase in our society and, indeed, in the world at the moment, in the way our lives are changing. After all, we've learned all about these Skype meetings and Teams meetings, and we've learned to act differently from the normal situation when we can't get together now and we can't face up physically, and it's exciting to see if some associations, for example, become perfectly regular with this remote connection. It will probably increase, and perhaps travel in the workplace and in business will be reduced and remote connections will be introduced. However, President-in-Office, it must be said that, both in business and then in civil society, it is very important to have a physical meeting in certain situations. It is really difficult to think that meetings of an ideological association or party would be just there for virtual connections, and even the general meeting of a large listed company may be a little challenging, although it may still be a matter of distance under normal conditions to maintain in the future. But this is very good support for everyday life. This is a real everyday performance that we are dealing with now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u26	Mr President! This situation certainly calls for this proposal to be adopted, because the situation is that, as in previous speeches in the Chamber, it means that many meetings would be challenging. The situation is that, although little acceptance has been given to the fact that they are being moved into the autumn, it has also been in the media that quarantine may still strike at risk groups for a little longer, and quite often there are pensioners involved in the activities of many associations because they often have time to get involved in these cases. Quite a few associations in some form will certainly involve risk group members. In this way, even by accident, it is possible to learn about this job, which will be the future. Although we are talking about Skype and Teams and these, the situation is that when we really start thinking about this thing, there will certainly be a lot of meetings in 10 years at the latest and in 20 years most of it, with 360 cameras and other virtual stuff. When, in our way, we can even create a situation in our own bathroom or closet, where it seems that we are standing here, not to mention the technology that is bound to come into existence in ten years, that when someone virtually touches someone else, the other knows it, and this kind of work. This is even a coincidence that we will probably get a little leap from this to the fact that we dared to leave, especially since it has not necessarily been the case in the past that we had the courage to try them, and now, when we have to dare, let us go and see that this is not as dangerous as it feels at first. So I really support this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u27	Mr President! In this context, when we are in the midst of this corona crisis and we have to avoid these close contacts, it is quite appropriate to create space for remote activities and also to run meetings of associations and others by means of remote meetings. There is a basis for this, as in this public decision-making, for us to act at a distance, that is certainly entirely appropriate. In fact, in all these three previous speeches, the representatives also said that we have a model for the future here. Here too, I agree that the reforms made during this corona virus will certainly have a lot of useful ideas that will continue to be useful. One of these is the possibility of remote operations. Some have used these forms of support as an example of the fact that, as it were, basic income is being generated here today with these particular types of income solutions. Returning to this remote debate, however, I would like to put a warning word here — a warning word: I think there is a risk that we will go as far as idealising the situation that we are still atomicising this society so that we all split up, we do not have a social contact surface, we do not encounter people as human beings, but in virtual forms. The reference was made here to pensioners, the elderly, the elderly who meet a lot, and in most of those meetings, the intention is not to come to the meeting itself, the approval of the accounts or some other form of formality, but, above all, to encounter a person, having coffee, being together, being able to talk, seeing a person, when loneliness is the real folk disease for older people. That is to say, a strong word of warning about not starting to idealize these remote functions so far that we can see that the future is just virtual functions. I would also like to say, Mr President, that if we go to these remote activities it automatically means, in substance, concentrating power. In these remote operations, power is forced to focus on the manufacturers and the leaders of the process. This is an automatic consequence of it, and that is why this traditional meeting, being together, is a much more natural way for people to communicate with each other, to see the living situation, looks, expressions, essence, everything — it is quite different from the fact that the message comes from a distance in virtual form. A strong word of warning not to idealize this remote activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u28	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u29	Mr President! This proposal is actually about bringing the same things into the legislation on the agricultural and forestry side, in that sense it is to be welcomed. This also takes account of the fact that applications and payments for different types of aid could be made with flexibility. It is also important that bureaucracy does not bring down activity, nor does it make this situation even more difficult and difficult for farms and forestry farms, for example. Mr President! It is a very good thing that the committee has been able to act quickly and make progress here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u30	Mr President! This proposal brings a variety of flexibility from the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to the situation caused by this epidemic of COVID-19. Here again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this latter draft law specifically provides for this possibility to allow meetings to be organised electronically even in situations where, for example, the Statutes of shareholders or, for example, the Statutes of the Houses do not allow this. On this previous point, Mr Kiljunen gave a warning that these teleconferences and teleactivity would not be idealized. There is certainly no reason to do this, but these various meetings at a distance have also become positive feedback that it will save travel, for example. If we want to develop society in a sustainable way, I think that this time is worth collecting both negative and positive experiences. As far as this legislation is concerned, it is also a matter of fixed-term derogations for these remote meetings until the end of this year, but I personally hope that this will also be used during some kind of trial period to see whether there is a need for further remote meetings in this administrative sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u31	Mr. Speaker! As the previous speakers have pointed out, this is the same issue as in the previous paragraph of the order of business, but in this point it is a question of different communities within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, such as the management of common forests, blocks and common areas. The aim is to allow the administration of these communities to be run during a corona pandemic. When we cannot meet in groups of more than ten and there may be hundreds of shareholders, for example, in a common forest, it is justifiable that society does not become paralysed. Society must function, the economy must function and its own livelihood, such as reindeer farming, must be able to continue to operate, or even during this crisis. It is very important that the government has put forward such a proposal and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has dealt with it at a rapid pace. These flexibilities, the possibility of remote meetings and other flexibilities during this disease, corona disease, are also introduced into these primary production communities. Perhaps, Mr President, a little more than in the previous paragraph, there is also a strong question of economic activity. It is a good thing that can be done there on the side of rural activities and, could you say, on the side of primary production those solutions. I noticed here, when I read the report, that there could now also be flexibility in the supply of real estate. When different kinds of real estate, parceling, etc. are carried out, it is a good thing that industry can still function and the economy can act in some way. No economic measure or transaction is unnecessary in this time period, but it is worth encouraging, for example, all kinds of real estate transactions and others at this time. Here too, I agree with Mr Räsänen that this is an interesting experiment in which our society is currently in existence. It is really interesting to see whether this is just the kind of virtual adventure that we live on here for a few months. Is this just a virtual adventure for those of us who do not get sick with the disease, or will these remote meetings and this online activity remain in our daily lives for good? Perhaps with regard to this proposal, I would particularly like to point out that we now have quite a lot of forest ownership, for example, so that the forest is in a different place from where the owner lives. A large proportion of forest owners are urban people. I think and know that some of the shareholders of these common forests and common areas live very far away from where the actual common forest is or the area to which this person is entitled. I believe that this proposal will make everyday life easier: you don't have to go from Helsinki to North Finland or to the coast of Ostrobothnia for a meeting of the partnership.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-61.u32	Mr President! Yes the representatives of Räsänen and Kurvinen are right in that this kind of teleactivity also offers opportunities and we support those options to explore. And now that we are talking about agriculture and forestry and we are talking about primary production, as was said, we are talking about sparsely populated areas in Finland, where distances are really important, and it is undoubtedly true that there can be meetings of forestry associations, hunting clubs and others that can be kept at a distance when people know each other. Another aspect of this is, for example, in these sparsely populated areas: these distances could be reduced in such a way that the meeting is a public meeting where we are together, but the presentationist himself can come along in a virtual form instead of chartering from, for example, the capital region to these sparsely populated areas. Yes, there's definitely a chance. However, I would like to say that this should not be taken to the point that we feel that the right way to meet in the future is simply that we live in that virtual world.
