ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-101.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 13/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-101.u2	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on the State's share of basic municipal services. This is, of course, linked to the corona virus epidemic, and the change is part of the package of measures for local government finances. These proposed changes will replace the increase in costs and tax revenues resulting from the epidemic for municipalities in 2020 by a total of EUR 722.3 million. The committee proposes that the percentage of central government transfers of basic municipal services be increased by 0.03 percentage points instead of the 0.05 percentage points proposed in the Government proposal. The purpose of this change in the central government share percentage is to compensate municipalities for the costs of the proposed Act on support for the functioning of the elderly population and the Act on social and health services for older people in 2020 for the staffing of improved service housing and long-term institutional care for older people. The committee notes that this package of support is very necessary for the local authority. All municipalities have been affected by the epidemic and its restrictive measures. They vary regionally according to the spread of the epidemic and are also influenced by the population and economic structure of the municipality and the financial structure. The committee therefore considers it justified that the municipal economic support package should consist of four different sections, which will enable the various channels of influence to be taken into account. The Committee on Administrative Affairs considers it important that the majority of the local government support package, that is to say, this increase in the central government share, is divided into sections whose calculation criteria are designed to compensate for the different types of economic impact. The impact of increases in the central government contribution on different municipalities varies according to the number of residents of the municipality, the number of residents under the age of 18 and the number of residents aged 65 or over, as well as the municipal tax allocation rate applicable in the tax year’s tax account and the share of tax revenues and central government shares in the income of the municipality. Looking at these in euro, a significant proportion of the additions are targeted particularly at the largest cities. About one third of the increases in the central government share are directed to Uusimaa. The economic impact of the Corona virus epidemic is most strongly concentrated in these regions. However, when viewed per capita, all municipalities will receive a significant increase in the central government share in 2020. As a measure not covered by the amendment to the Act on State Aids, however, as part of the aid package, the fourth draft amending budget includes a grant of EUR 200 million for medical districts to compensate for the costs and deficits caused by the corona virus situation. The Committee has previously stated in its opinion on the budgetary plan that the crisis will also lead to preparedness costs for municipalities and hospital districts, and has drawn attention to the effects of the postponement of urgent care. In the Government's proposal, it is indicative that the combined effect of the corona crisis on local government finances would be between EUR 1.6 billion and EUR 2 billion. However, it is very difficult to distinguish which is directly due to the effects of the corona virus epidemic and which is already due to the historically difficult situation in the municipalities and the subdued development of the economy. The Committee on Administrative Affairs considers it important that measures have been taken quickly to ensure that the conditions for municipalities to provide basic services are not jeopardised. The recovery of the local government economy as a whole will have a major impact, among other things, on how the recovery will start, and structural reforms will also have an impact on the financial distress of the municipalities. In any case, the impact of the epidemic and the adequacy of the aid package must continue to be monitored and, where necessary, supported, and provision should be made for support beyond this year. According to the information received by the Administrative Committee, the estimated cost of human resources and related changes in the information system and training will be approximately EUR 12.7 million for 2020 if the law enters into force on 1 October 2020. It follows that the central government percentage of basic municipal services proposed in the Government proposal needs to be adjusted. And, as has been said, the committee is proposing that it be increased by 0.03 percentage points instead of 0.05 percentage points in the government proposal, with a new central government share of 25.49 and the municipalities' own contribution of 74.51. It was not quite simple to achieve these percentages. Once again, the committee adviser did a great deal of work to get this report here today, but here are the percentages. Mr President! The Administrative Committee is in favour of an increase in the share of the State and considers that the package of subsidies contained in the fourth draft amending budget is extremely necessary for the municipality. This discussion was accompanied by an action initiative 39/2020, which also proposes that the government take steps to establish a municipal rescue programme during the corona crisis. This initiative also includes other proposals for measures under such a municipal programme, and the proposed increase in state participation in this government proposal constitutes the bulk of the municipal support package for the corona virus epidemic. In this respect, the Administrative Committee proposes that this initiative be rejected. Otherwise, these measures will be taken into account. In view of the above changes, the Administrative Committee proposes that this proposal be adopted as amended, and our report was unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-101.u3	Mr President! Municipalities have been on the frontline in the fight against interest rates and in coping with and rising from the crisis. For this reason, you can say that it is very important that we ensure that municipalities are able to function and that they also have sufficient resources to support people, people and businesses alike. However, as a result of the interest-rate crisis, local government finances have also fallen free of charge as expenditure has increased and incomes have collapsed, and local government finances that have already been in a very difficult situation have been estimated to deteriorate to close to EUR 2 billion this year as a result of the interest rate. Without going into the details of the proposal, this proposal is very important to the municipalities, although this only solves about half of the needs of the municipalities and the need for support will continue in the following years. In this context, I would also like to thank the Administrative Committee for taking the initiative I submitted at the beginning of April to draw up a municipal rescue programme as part of the package. Although the initiative concerned the wider functioning of municipalities in terms of the economy, its central proposal for the so-called municipal billion, which would be divided between municipalities and health care districts and compensate for both the costs incurred by the interest rate and the income lost, was reasonably well received in substance in this government proposal. Thank you for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-101.u4	Mr President! This is therefore a proposal to increase the central government share of basic municipal services to cover the costs of the corona virus and to ease the financial challenges posed by the fall in tax revenues. It is clear that no money is enough to cover all the losses caused by the interest rate, and the situation in the municipalities has been difficult even before this crisis. However, it is very important that the government has taken action quickly and that help is also coming to the medical districts so that the costs of the interest rate are not cumulated with the municipalities. The pandemic and its restrictive measures have had an impact on all municipalities, although the effects of the crisis differ from one municipality to another. Schools, day-care centres, libraries and many other services have had to make special arrangements, and they have been for all municipalities. Indeed, the aid package now consists of several different measures, precisely because the crisis has treated municipalities differently. It is intended to ensure the provision of basic municipal services and support is indeed needed. The Committee also considers it important that the bulk of the aid package should become an increase in state participation, divided into sections designed to compensate for the different types of economic impact on municipalities. The increases to the central government share depend, among other things, on the number of municipalities, the number of persons aged under 18 and the number of persons aged 65 or over. The central government share of basic municipal services is a universal central government share, i.e. municipalities can decide for themselves how to allocate it. The committee, too, considers it important that this increase should safeguard the conditions for the provision of basic services and facilitate the economic challenges of municipalities arising from the exceptional situation within the meaning of the Government's proposal. The amount of work that municipalities have had to do quickly in the midst of the crisis is also noteworthy. That is why the committee also draws attention to the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Culture, which must be applied for through separate application procedures. The Committee therefore considers it important that application procedures do not impose unnecessary administrative burdens on municipalities. Mr President! It is also noteworthy that the whole municipal field needs measures to strengthen the economy and operating conditions and a long-term plan to tackle these challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-23-ps-101.u5	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the point that the report of the Committee on Administrative Affairs, at least when it was discussed in the committee, contained as paragraph 9, which deals with this aid for the medical districts, which, as it says here, is one of the elements of the whole, and is not directly linked to this state contribution to basic services, but is a separate form of support. It's a challenge that way. I know that there have been negotiations with the medical districts, but I would like to briefly describe the challenges involved. In particular, a large proportion of the deficits which have now been accumulated by the medical districts during this interest-bearing spring are not due to the extra or larger workload that has been made, but to the fact that income has been reduced as a result of the accumulation of services normally provided to municipalities and from which municipalities are invoiced by hospital districts on an accrual basis and on a patient-by-patient basis. So there's a lot of interaction here. Of course, there have been additional costs, especially in those areas where there have been a lot of intensive care patients, such as here in the Uusimaa region. Then there is this, which I have just mentioned, that it has been possible to do less so-called conventional treatment, partly because patients have not sought treatment or have not received referrals to treatment, partly because the hospital itself, as its own plan, has pushed the treatment down without haste. Then there is the situation that, in the autumn, more of this debt reduction will have to be made, but it will then be billed again by the municipality. The combined effect of all of these is very complex, but I understand that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is quite familiar with this and then, together with the medical districts, seek the most fair financing model possible. As a further point, briefly, what the chairman of the committee referred to, and which we discussed earlier today, this figure of 12.7 million because of this human dimension in the care of the elderly. It does indeed involve different figures, which were only specified today. As such, it was not a misunderstanding but rather a question of the fact that the expenditure of its staff to be added to three months this year amounts to 1.62 million, but also in the light of this second issue in this law, that is to say, the RAI method, which evaluates the elderly equally — it is an information system, and it incurs costs — and then the training costs, all of which will be the 12,7 which is not, therefore, 17,7 which would have been at issue if this law had entered into force on 1 August 1998.
