ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 6/2020 vp. The debate will begin with a general debate, where pre-reserved speeches will be given up to 5 minutes in the summer. Other interventions shall not exceed 3 minutes. In addition, I will give the answers I have considered in order and, as has been said, after the presentation of the debate. The relevant votes will take place today at the end of the general debate. To the extent that no amendments to the draft amending budget have been proposed, it shall be deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance. And I saw the general discussion. — Presentation by Mr Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u2	Mr. Speaker! The third draft amending budget for 2020 allocates large amounts of funding to facilitate the financing situation of Finnair Corporation and nutritionists, as well as the costs of managing and combating the corona virus. The Government’s proposal also includes significant guarantees. A State guarantee of up to EUR 880 million is proposed for the Employment Fund to ensure its access to finance in all market situations. It is also proposed to provide a State guarantee of EUR 432 million in order to mitigate the risk of unemployment resulting from a European emergency, i.e. loans granted under the SURE. A State guarantee of up to EUR 372 million is proposed for potential losses under the EU Covid-19 Guarantee Fund under the European Investment Bank. In subsequent draft amending budgets for 20 years, the Government has promised to assess the need for other increases in appropriations resulting from the corona virus and, more broadly, measures to support the economy. The next draft amending budget, which will be submitted at the beginning of June, will also include measures to stimulate the economy. The Committee on Finance also refers to its reports on the first and second draft amending budgets of the year, emphasising, among other things, the need for municipal support and the need to improve the liquidity of hospital districts with direct support. The Committee also stresses that the Committee on Budgets should be kept informed about the use of the item of unestimated expenditure, EUR 200 million. Finnair Corporation's share subscription has received extensive support, in fact it has been unanimously accepted. Due to the interest rate crisis, stock market developments may be volatile, which means that the State as a responsible owner wishes to prepare to participate in the share issue, if necessary, with a larger share of its current shareholding within the framework of EU State aid rules. The State is also prepared to contribute, if necessary, to any future financing needs to strengthen Finnair's equity. The committee considers that the allocation of funding to Finnair's capitalisation arrangements is justified because securing the company's operations is necessary because of its strategic importance, such as security of supply. The Committee expressly states that ensuring regional accessibility, business and tourism requires comprehensive domestic and international air links. The committee therefore considers it important that, as soon as air travel begins to recover, the air links temporarily closed due to the corona epidemic should be restored. This will contribute, inter alia, to the vitality of the regions and improve the operating conditions of international companies. The committee also welcomes the fact that Finnair Corporation has published its own highly ambitious responsibility plan to halve its net emissions by the end of 25 from 19 levels and achieve carbon neutrality by 45 at the latest. The committee also emphasises the importance of responsible employer policy in accordance with Finnair's sustainability strategy. Of these guarantees and guarantees relating to EU membership and the European Investment Bank: the Committee on Finance — referring to the opinions of the large committee and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — supports the government's proposal and the approval of the guarantee and guarantee. However, the committee stresses that the final agreements restrict the liability for guarantees and guarantees in Finland in a precise and unambiguous manner. The Committee also considers it important that, in line with the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Government's reports will include a cumulative assessment of the new and foreseeable financial responsibilities associated with the interest rate crisis, taking into account the issues that have already been decided and which are to be foreseen in the near future. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to the fact that the overall assessment of the financial liabilities associated with the corona crisis ultimately affects whether the arrangements relating to the interest rate crisis can be regarded as constitutional. As a result of the cumulative assessment, the total amount of exposures is thus continuously up-to-date. The Committee on Finance welcomes the increase of the concession of the Academy of Finland by EUR 10 million to support research into vaccine and drug development and to investigate the effectiveness, safety and impact of new vaccines and medicines. The competition in the corona vaccine study and later on the availability of the vaccine is fierce. Therefore, national and international research, development and cooperation are needed to ensure the availability of the vaccine. It is therefore justified to invest in promoting promising national vaccine research projects and, at the same time, to prepare the vaccine through a licensing agreement with a vaccine manufacturer who has developed a safe and effective vaccine against covid-19. It is also important to ensure that an international agreement, for example, ensures the universal availability of the vaccine and fair procurement procedures. In the case of support for restaurants, Parliament has already adopted, at first reading, an additional support model in accordance with the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The Committee on Finance has therefore added EUR 48 million to this item, and at the same time I would say that food service entrepreneurs can continue to apply for aid through Business Finland and Ely Centres. In addition, the Government is rapidly preparing an industry-neutral support instrument. The committee refers to the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy and stresses the coherence of the aid scheme and the coordination of aid so as to take account of the compensation received by the catering company in aid granted by Business Finland and the Ely Centres in so far as there is a real overlap. The committee considers it important that the guidelines of Business Finland and the Ely Centres ensure that coordination is carried out on a uniform basis. The committee stresses the urgency of the processing and payment of applications and also refers to what has been said in the second amending budget, i.e. Parliament called for company subsidies to be allocated in such a way as to compensate for the economic impact of the pandemic, to improve opportunities for continuing and developing business activities and to promote employment. There is an increase of EUR 6 million for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, for costs related to the preparation, procurement and maintenance of the covid-19 infection tracking application. The Committee considers it important that the necessary legislative changes be prepared in parallel with the technical implementation of the application, so that the application can be introduced as quickly as possible, possibly for pilot use already in the summer of 2020. All this added to restaurant support means that the increase in total expenditure will amount to EUR 880 million and, accordingly, the increase in borrowing. The Committee on Budgets proposes that Parliament approve the proposal for the third amending budget for 2020 contained in the Government proposal, subject to the above changes, rejects the amending budget initiatives and the measure initiative and decides that the third amending budget for 2020 will apply from 27 May.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u3	And then we move on to a period of no more than half an hour, with one minute's speaking time. You can ask for the floor by pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u4	Mr President! Thank you to the Committee on Finance for this amending budget. In particular, I am very pleased with this unanimous decision to finance Finnair. We also have good and bad examples in Europe when air companies are in bad shape, such as Lufthansa, which Germany has gone to finance, but if we take Norwegian, then there will suddenly be Chinese owners. It is very important, strategically important, to start funding a domestic airline. The second withdrawal here is this support for the restaurant, and thanks also to the state funds that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy got through its wishes and started to finance these changes. After all, the changes were precisely due to a slight expansion of the period considered and to a larger number of companies. The second point then was that we also got temporary employment in this district. — I would like to thank the Committee on Finance for these.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u5	Mr President! Former Prime Minister Stubb once said that the EU will be stronger after every crisis. This is absolutely true, but unfortunately it is not the way he intended it. Economic integration creates an unnatural link between very different economies. When one country gets into a crisis, it becomes a crisis for all. More integration and solidarity, i.e. a stronger Union, will be the solution. This strengthening will take place at the expense of the Member States' legislative sovereignty and budgetary sovereignty. It is difficult to see how this development could be in the interests of Finland, especially since it is known that in solidarity arrangements Finland is a permanent member of an ever-increasing number of contributors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u6	Mr President! It can be said that this proposal is fundamentally good and well-founded. However, these problems are mainly related to job saving, in particular support for the restaurant and café sector. Unfortunately, it is still inadequate and also slow to an acute crisis, and even in October, restrictions on restaurants are even problematic from the constitutional point of view in a large part of Finland. But then, Mr President, this rescue of Finnair. We agree that we need to save Finnair. There will be capitalisation, there will be consensus on that, but we believe that regional airports will also have to be guaranteed in the course of the corona crisis. Mr Kurvinen, Mr Salmon, are you even prepared to provide purchasing services to ensure the turns of regional airports during the corona crisis from autumn onwards? There is Joensuu, Jyväskylä, Kajaani, Kemi-Tornio, Kokkola-Pietarsaari — these flights are now under threat.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u7	Mr President! The presentation of the Coalition Party is all right, and we still have to ask if this is possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u12	Mr President! I think it is extremely important that this hall should now send out a completely unimaginable message about ownership policy to Finnair: as soon as air traffic recovers, it is necessary to restore regional routes,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u21	Mr President! However, I consider it a special proposal to secure flights without an assessment of whether it is realistic to expect passengers on flights. International air transport is stuck, and the big argument for these regional flights is that international passengers, businessmen and women will then be able to reach the provincial airports. But if you can't get to Finland, you have to seriously assess whether these regional flights still make sense at that point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u24	Mr President! The capitalisation of Finnair through the share issue is the biggest issue of this amending budget, and it is the way in which it should be done: if companies are supported, then the company’s ownership in the direction of the State will be equivalent. Instead, it surprises the coalition line, which wants taxpayers' money to intervene in the operation of the market and to direct the stock exchange company, to fly empty machines.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u29	Mr President! Mr Arhinmäki is now obliged to reply that he obviously has not noticed that, during this corona crisis, business subsidies, for example, are treated a little differently than usual, although this is not the case with such business aid. This is about Finnair shaking the people of these many important provinces by telling them that summer will not fly, and perhaps not later either. And this led to Minister Kulmuni, Group President Kurvinen and Mr Vehviläinen, among others, being cruel in that social media that this is not appropriate. Well, the coalition was not content to barbarate in social media, but we have a concrete contribution here which you will be able to vote on today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u32	Mr President! I do not know whether there was a sum of money put forward by the assembly, and I can see that the interest period has brought about changes: now that Mr Zyskowicz is here, I can see that a little bit of opposition policy has come back here, even in the sense that, in the past, the precise economic group is presenting additional expenditure, but it would be nice to hear what your assessment is now of the additional expenditure that you are proposing, and what is the point in which you have presented these. Mr President! I think that the line taken by the Committee on Finance was a good one and it is important that the whole Parliament sends out a clear message. These airport flights, Finnair's connections to the airport, are extremely important for both security of supply and the functioning of business, and it is extremely important that Parliament's common message is that as soon as demand returns, these flights must be returned, because this is important for the vitality of the regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u34	Mr President! ‘In the following elections,allremembers that are not at the level of the This was declared by Mr Kärnä six days ago. I agree: it is worth remembering that today the Centre has already voted in the Committee on Budgets, and shortly here in plenary, against this development. The provinces don't even get a cold hand from downtown. They get a cold meat pie from a supporter. Take a message to the provinces! Finally, I would like to remind you of this EU issue, which is that we are once again facing more responsibilities and are saving German and French banks. There is far too little talk about this here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u35	Mr. Speaker! After all, this domestic air traffic in Finland is ultimately about companies and jobs and that there are somehow equal conditions for living in the whole country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u43	Mr President! I am quite sure that Parliament's united message, which we have recorded in the report of the Committee on Finance, will be more effective than this opposition which has returned to the assembly here. Of course, the opposition can and must be presented, but I would now like to point out that you have again, in your protest, 19 statements with additional expenditure, and there have been a great many of them along the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u46	Honorable Speaker! Suddenly, this additional budget has three run-ins. Now that we should strengthen the vitality of the provinces by restoring passenger traffic to all airports, we will give 700 million to the owner-control unit from which they capitalise, contribute 280 million. That leaves $420 million. What will this be used for? Why can't we just use this to buy some shopping, even a little slice? Then the government will go along with these EU support mechanisms. That's where the $800 million guarantees go. It is only a small part, and even the 430 million in the EU unemployment fund is only a quarter of the total. Then, through the multi-annual framework, there will be additional responsibilities, 1300 million. Finally, the government programme is out of date. I'd have to do it again. We can see that this spring we have four additional budgets for discussion here. We should have a new framework, a new programme and a new budget quickly. We can't go on like this anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u47	Mr President! The capitalisation of Finnair with 700 million is really a good thing, but how it is done is also important. Here, among other things, representatives of Salmon, Kurvinen, Arhinmäki and so on say that certain domestic destinations do not receive inland flights until demand recovers,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u48	Mr President! I would like to believe that there is a common will in this Chamber for the future of regional vitality to be ensured also through air transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u55	Mr President! Last month, the government made a good decision on the principle of state ownership control, which, among other things, states that state companies must take into account the Paris Climate Agreement and national climate targets. Finnair’s strategic interest is the further development of Finland’s position as a centre of international traffic. In this context, I trust that Finnair will then be smartly steered according to where to fly and who will pay, and Finnair will certainly have a good view of this. When there is great concern about regions and connections there, I would also like to point out that it must also bear in mind that intra-urban public transport is very important for the whole of the economy and for the functioning of society. This should also be borne in mind when co-financing is made. Otherwise, from this amending budget, I would like to raise this interest rate application. It is great that there is funding for this, and it is important that we have the tracking tools in the best possible condition here when restrictions are lifted. I hope that this acquisition will be brought to the finish line and made as much use as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u56	Mr. Speaker! I think it is very serious that it seems to be possible to say that the Finnish government is withholding from the Finnish people the knowledge of how much common debt is growing here in the euro area and even in the EU countries. In fact, when these guarantee liabilities amounting to EUR 880 million are presented here, the government is not telling us here that Finland’s responsibility for this SURE fund through the EU is actually EUR 1.7 billion, and then there is the covid fund, and then there is also this EU recovery fund, and they are all on top of the existing ESM. In other words, there is a risk that the Finnish guarantee liabilities will perhaps be increased by nearly 10 billion, i.e. about the HX project. The Finns of Peru are today proposing that Finland does not participate in this Fund under the name SURE or in this Guarantee Fund under the name covid. I think it is quite serious that we talk about billions and people are not even told.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u57	Mr. Speaker! First of all, Mr Tavio: there is a big difference between the guarantee and the allocation of money, so that the chances of paying these are in the category of percentages or proms. [of the fundamental Finns Group : Timescale assessment!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u59	Mr President! It is important to be careful that the interest rate does not take large export companies with it. Accessibility is the lifeblood of a successful export industry. It affects the functioning of international trade, business security and the image of the region in international business. The smooth connections also affect business placement and investment decisions and thus the future economic growth of the region and Finland. Now four provincial fields are in a difficult situation. The Coalition Party has proposed that the Government take measures to ensure that the fields mentioned during the exceptional period are provided with adequate flight services for business life and residents, if necessary through a purchase service agreement. I think that this is a good proposal and that we should find an agreement on the Government-Opposition axis to deal with this issue. In a sudden sense, the government and the government should be interested in what things look like.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u60	Mr President! In my view, the proposal on the purchase services of the Coalition Party is premature, difficult to implement legally,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u65	Mr President! In the first amending budget process, I hoped that this capitalisation of Finnair would be done by increasing the ownership of the state, all of us Finns. And that is what we are doing now, for which I thank you very much. The line should extend to the capitalisation of all larger companies. So we don't give support to shareholders, we get ownership for money. Then our debt may even be reduced and jobs saved at the same time. In the Committee on Finance, we required that contacts be secured when demand begins to return. The Coalition Party now proposes that we fly all the planes without passengers. This is so crazy that it would be smarter even to do what Brezhnev did in the old Soviet joke, to pull out the curtains and pretend that the train is moving. At least we could save the climate and money. It would be cheaper to pay for tax money, even if a taxi from each of those Vantaa regions to that region than this coalition line, which is completely absurd.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u66	Mr President! The capitalisation of Finnair as such is quite commonly accepted here, but — if Mr Arhinmäki is listening —
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u69	Mr President! Of course, in this amending budget, the big things are this capitalization of Finnair and then also support for restaurants. I am dealing with the smallest of these issues, that is, the EUR 6 million allocation for social and health care linked to this trace, because everything we are discussing today is in fact linked to the fact that we have a corona crisis. When we open up this society — we do not know exactly how this corona epidemic is going to develop — we need a completely new type of way of tracing and testing, with this information technology and also a whole new type of testing, not like now, which cost EUR 200 a piece, but perhaps some new tests that can be carried out directly, with a unit price of EUR 5-10, which we can use now, symbolically with vision, even if each morning or once a week tests ourselves and see if we are fit to be in contact with each other. With such visions, we must now take bold action, and this is a small part of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u70	Mr President! We all know that the export industry is one of Finland's rocks, and it is therefore noteworthy that it is precisely the recovery of the world economy and, in particular, the recovery of the EU economy that is central to Finnish exports. This has been emphasised in the Committee on Finance by both the Bank of Finland and practically all the economists we have heard. 60% of Finnish exports are destined for the EU, which is why it is absolutely essential to try to pull demand from the EU region so that Finnish export companies have enough markets to sell to them, and it is therefore isolated from looking at this EU policy as if we did not have these important Finnish export companies. It is therefore important to take this whole into account when talking about these EU economic packages. And when it comes to flying, I think that Mr Kiviranta very well recounted what the unanimous position of the report by the Committee on Finance was. It is precisely the beginning of the recovery of air travel, not the sort of delay that is taking place here, so it is a little pointless to build a terrible confrontation between this report and other proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u71	Mr President! When you look at this situation in the export industry and this need for regional fields, it has rightly been said here that those fields are needed specifically for the export industry, tourism and so on, which brings more capital and money to this region. However, the fact that machines are empty all the time is not a very good solution for the climate, and that is why I think it is important for the Committee on Finance to say that, as soon as it is possible — and trade and borders open up for us and more industrial trade — these regional airports will be introduced and dealt with through it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u72	Let us return to the list of speakers, but first Minister, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u73	Mr President! Thank you for this feedback debate: perhaps on a few questions I will try to answer for myself. And thank the Committee on Finance for this good report. Perhaps first, at this European level. Just as Parliament has given the mandate, and just as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has called for proper conditionality, so we are moving forward. Finland is not seeking a loan from the European Stability Mechanism itself, because for a country like us, financial markets are more attractive elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u80	Thank you! — Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to keep the security gap while you are sitting in the Chamber. One chair at least matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u81	Mr. Speaker! I would like to start by making statements in response to the objections raised by the Assembly, which totals 18. The last of them is and is very important, listen, my dear Minister of Finance: ‘The Board of Governors is directly involved in measures which ensure that, during theexemption period,there are sufficient residents as well as business flights toJoensuu,Jyväskylä,Kajaani,Kemi-Tornio and Kokkola-Pietarsaari by means In particular, Finnair has called into question the continuation of the flights at the airports concerned.’ That is what we are going to vote on today in Parliament, and then we will see how the centre of the provinces, at least to date, will function. The Assembly considers it essential that these shifts be guaranteed and ensured, and, Mr Kulmuni, it is not enough for you to take the floor and say that they will return in the autumn. You very strongly raised the demand to link this capitalisation to these flights, but what happened? Quite a slump in the Committee on Budgets when your party representatives sat there silently and accepted that one sideline in the report. In these other statements, the Coalition Party proposes, among other things, that, in the context of the reform of the Alcohol Act, alcohol sales should be allowed to be sold out to restaurants. For example, it is one way in which we can help restaurants beyond a difficult situation. And hopefully there will still be a common will and vision in Parliament that these restrictive measures will not extend to the whole country, including those areas where there is no corona virus. We also propose that Parliament should take or require the government to take immediate measures to open restaurants on a regional basis at a different time, if the epidemic situation so permits. This, too, has been mentioned by many of the Centre's ranks, especially in the social media, and of course we believe that the Centre's people will at least support the vote today. We also propose that the government immediately begin to prepare for the temporary calculation of VAT on restaurants and on alcohol. This would also be a way of helping businesses, restaurants, now beyond this difficult situation, as the Marin government is continuing to impose restrictions on restaurants for up to five months, up to October, in the worst cases. ‘The Commission requires that the Commission be represented without delay in order to allow the retail Mr President! In protests from the Assembly, in a large part, we note these subsidies in the restaurant sector, which are still falling short of the problems that have arisen in this sector. According to us and the experts' estimates, Mr Finance Minister, we are going to see a huge amount of bankruptcies in the tourism and restaurant sector with your support, which is totally inadequate, especially when, for up to five months, restrictive measures in the restaurant sector will continue. The Coalition Party therefore also wants to secure air connections throughout the country. This capitalisation is a matter of its own, and when the centre of the city has been quite pompous in the social media to ensure that flights are secured, we hope that there will also be a real will to do so when the House votes on them today. We are prepared to increase the starting places for universities, and we are concerned that, for example, there has been no seasonal employment in agriculture and that the profitability of agriculture is in crisis. We are proposing growth aid for agriculture in this difficult situation. It would be one way to ensure quality, good Finnish food production beyond this difficult situation. Mr President! When this debate was asked, or the Centre wanted to suggest that the EU would not allow such flights to be purchased,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u82	Mr President! In the Government's third amending budget for 2020, the most significant proposals relate to the capitalisation of Finnair, Finland's participation in EU support instruments and support for nutrition entrepreneurs. In their own presentations, the Christian Democrats have stuck to the paragraphs and their statements that are open, and here I am making motions 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 under protest 3, and then we will be voting on two articles with additional funding. Mr President! We have now had this debate around Finnair and we have been asked whether the opposition has done their homework. I am still underlining this proposal for a statement by the Christian Democrats1.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u87	Honorable Speaker! In detail, we will be making nine statements, which can be found in objection one. If we are still looking at the economic situation that we had at the turn of the year, then we in the EU were at a time of slowing growth. Now that we have this situation, we still had these employment measures at a very short stage. All of a sudden, we lost that paint all the way away from where we really were. I have thought about it and I have thought about it and said that it is probably the productivity growth that could somehow get out of it. If less hours are worked in society, they must be done more productively. Now we should do the huge digital leap that has been made considerably. We should have the good practices that we have adopted throughout society, maintain and promote and, above all, increase productivity and enable all communities to somehow increase their own productivity. Then we need to restore confidence. We need to get rid of that fear of consumers so that confidence is restored and people dare to use the services and go on spending. That is how it will go, hopefully, to bring jobs and prevent people from being laid off and getting back to work. Let's go back to this extra budget. Let us see that countries in the EU that were already in a bad economic situation have come into an even more difficult situation now. Now, on an EU-wide basis, we are trying to get through the projects and programmes that will increase solidarity. This is, of course, a problematic situation for our party, because we are, of course, opposed to solidarity. But the big question is: what is the vision of Finland? If there is no vision of Finland, the government will end up agreeing to the priority policy pursued by other countries and Finland will be paying for it. So the key issues are: what kind of monetary union is desired, what kind of changes Finland is prepared to accept and which is by no means acceptable. And that reflection must be summed up in the question of what is Finland's vision. This is something we have been looking for, but we still need to think about it and think about it, because that vision of Finland we need to find — what is Finland's place in the EU, whether we are inside or whether we are outside, where the point arises, where solidarity is no longer worth saying that this is too much? This government proposal also involves guarantee liabilities of 800 million, and the unemployment fund will then become 1300 million additional liabilities under the multi-annual framework. I'd have to count these too. Therefore, when we see that Finland's responsibilities are constantly growing, we make a statement that they must not grow unreasonably and uncontrollably, even by a step by step, by a number of small decisions. We must ensure that this does not happen. Nor do we support the inclusion of these new aid instruments in these statements, and we propose that by the end of June 2020 the Government submit to Parliament a communication on domestic EU and other guarantee and loan liabilities of the Finnish State. This is the key issue, and in the same context one might also wonder what this vision of Finland in the EU is. Finally, on this return to air transport. Of course, we are proposing to strengthen the vitality of domestic regions by returning passenger transport from Helsinki Airport to all stations where it was present. We hope that this will happen in some time. When we look at the fact that we have about 4,000 passengers per month to Kajaani, about 7,000, I think there were 5,000 passengers a month to Joensuu and then hopefully at some point the demand will return. Perhaps the interim phase is the period of one to two months when it must be supported by the state. At the same time, we also propose that Parliament be given a report on these subsidies and on the impact on the operation of the airline, on how the aid has actually worked. I would also like to point out that 700 million will be allocated to the corporate governance unit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u88	Thank you. — For the sake of clarity, as Mr Vähämäki said, proposals and support for the objection will be made during the detailed discussion, not at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u89	Mr President! It is an excellent thing that, in time, Finland has understood how to set up its own airline Finnair. It is a very strategic company and it is also a great thing that we all agree on the recapitalisation of this company in this exceptional situation. As far as that Finnair announcement is concerned, temporarily abolishing these certain domestic air services means that they have not changed their profitability permanently, the situation is now exceptional because of the interest rate, but it may well be that right after midsummer the situation is different. And as the committee considers important in this report, these air links will be restored as soon as air travel starts to recover. In that sense, this proposal by the Assembly on purchasing services may even be problematic when it is likely that, if this were to happen, it would delay the normal recovery of these air links. If such tendering were possible by means of a purchase agreement, however, it would take at least six months and it would be a very uncertain situation for all of these air connections. The important thing is that Finnair voluntarily restores these flight connections. The second big thing in this report is this support for restaurants, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy made very important changes. After all, the Parliament was given very great freedom to make those changes, and it was of course very important that this comparison date was changed to a more precise match at the time of the year to which the restrictions have been imposed, i.e. the optional comparison date became the option for April to May 2019 alongside January to February, and then the authority that makes a decision to compensate for the restriction will choose the one that will be better for the recipient of the restaurant support. The cost impact of this is EUR 40 million, but it is well-founded. It was also important to take into account the role of temporary workers, or the position of those companies that use personnel service companies for their labour supply, and this has a cost impact of about EUR 8 million. In other words, the total rose from EUR 123 million to EUR 171 million after quite justified changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u90	Mr President! Mr Heinonen made a good speech in that regard, describing this in-depth objection to the draft amending budget report, and I support, both here and, if necessary, in a detailed debate, all these statements made by Mr Heinonen, which are in line with this objection. Mr President! Briefly, I would like to return to the above-mentioned debate and to this capitalisation of Finnair and the safeguarding of flights throughout Finland. There are two slightly different issues here. As far as capital ownership is concerned, there is a broad consensus that we want to secure Finnair's operations and that we are prepared to make exceptional arrangements. Mr President! Of course, I would have liked us to have a common will to secure these connections in the provinces, but in this debate there were some vicious throws from the representatives of the government parties as to how much this proposal for implementation costs, for example. Well, how much will it cost if we leave these areas without these connections? The Kemi-Tornio region produces EUR 5 billion in value for our goods exports.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u97	Mr President! You should always see the whole thing when you're having a conversation. This debate is now going to the end of regional airports, and I do not think it is right, because the European Union has given us permission to deal with this network of our airports as one. We have invested a billion dollars at Helsinki Airport because it is a competitive, extremely good service that we can use to get people from China and elsewhere to stop in Finland and Helsinki, and the strategy is quite right. And that is why, when billions of investments are made, it is perfectly justified that this regional network should be seen as part of this big picture, and if 20 million of the profits of Helsinki–Vantaa are invested in regional areas, that is right. So I still wonder that when we talk about the capitalisation of Finnair, which is a listed company, especially when it comes from Finnair, at the same time we start to slaughter these provincial fields, which are part of the strategy that there are significant numbers of people coming from all over Finland, as they should, continue to do, and then Finnair will be able to provide good connections to the world, so why should we even go into the Chamber debate in Parliament and question the whole thing that works so well? With regard to the use of such an instrument, that the purchase service of less than seven months would be carried out — as is the case with the proposal of the Coalition Party, that if necessary — then it can be done with a small amount of bureaucracy and speed, because it has to be accepted precisely because it is short-term and thus is carried out during the corona period. Then we'll go into the normal arrangement. And yes, I'm a little surprised about the downtown attitude. You will go to the EU's side immediately, that the EU will not allow this, the EU will deny it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u102	Mr President! As far as I am concerned, I should also like to return to the Finnair debate to the point where I say that we have praised this paragraph of the Committee on Finance's statement on the subject or, in fact, the supplementary budget report of the Committee on Finance and that this is enough to safeguard the flights in these regions. Well, the committee’s report says that ‘the Member State considers it important’ and that it does so. When I have been here for 40 years, so young representatives tell me that such a ‘committee’is of the utmost This is nottheconclusionthatthe Assembly hasconfirmed, formal andlegally binding government buteveryone understandsthat ifthe declaration had been made,the ‘representation’requires ‘and so on,thereshould Here the representatives of the government parties have given mixed and divergent, even somewhat contradictory, explanations as to why the contribution of the Coalition Party is not going to happen. If you really have a problem with these purchasing services, then here Christian Democrats Sari Essayah has also made a statement in which this problem of purchasing services does not exist, so that apparently representatives of Kurvinen and The salmon and the partners will then vote in favour of it. It was interesting, by the way, that when this debate took place, for example, on the part of the representative of the car and during the time, the representatives, Mr Kurvinen and Mr Salmon, many times shouted in the middle that what it was costing. I have to say, as Mr Eestilä said, that you should go to Joensuu and Tornio and Kokkola. To tell you in Jyväskylä,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u105	Mr President! I hope that, before the detailed debate and the vote, the representatives of the Christian Democrats will take a careful look at the protest that has been included in this report and the statements that have been included in it, which I support now and will then be supported in the detailed reading. There has been a lot of discussion here about these air links, and I would like to point out, in particular in this context, that I believe that this proposal for a statement 1, which we object to very well, would now ensure the common will that has been expressed here in relation to air transport, that is to say that Parliament would require the government to ensure, by means of ownership control, comprehensive air connections throughout the country, including those temporarily terminated because of the corona epidemic. Regional air links have been politically endangered even before the corona period, and there is now a risk that these projects will be brought to the finish under the guise of the corona. I would therefore now particularly encourage the centre of the government to defend these air links more vigorously than is currently the case. Another major concern in this proposal relates to the debate on state guarantees for EU aid, which is being proposed in this context for EUR 800 million. In fact, my own concern was deepened when Prime Minister Marin, in these discussions on Goldiranta, said that each European country should come up against its own foxholes a little when he commented on the German and French proposal for a EUR 500 billion solidarity recovery fund. This is why Finland has not been among those countries that have encouraged us not, as if under the guise of solidarity, to go too far in this direction of solidarity, namely Austria, Holland, Denmark and Sweden. In this context, Finland has not been contacted and it raises concerns about what the government is still moving towards. And now that Mr Kulmuni is here, I hope that you will comment and respond to what, with this EUR 500 billion recovery money, this is the idea of the Prime Minister of the government that each country should come a little against its own foxholes. Hasn't this really come up against you? For example, the Christian Democrats believe that the state guarantees proposed for this draft amending budget have already gone too far in this direction, so we should return to the fact that each country is looking after its own economy. And let me remind you that the President of the Republic also stated in those discussions on Goldiarda that the euro area should move on to that original agreement and for its original purposes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u106	Mr President! The government's third amending budget includes both good and less favourable entities. For example, it is extremely important that, in this situation of increasing lay-offs and also unemployment, the government responds with this proposal to the increasing expenditure pressure of the Employment Fund. In this situation, the funds allocated to the vaccine research and the development of the corona tracing application are also heading in the right direction. Of course, Mr President, there is something to be corrected in the government proposal. Of these two, in particular, I would like to see a re-examination by the government, which is the support planned for restaurants and the security of regional air traffic. With regard to restaurant support, it has to be said, unfortunately, that the model of support provided by the Marin Government does not provide solutions to the problems that have arisen in this sector as a result of the government's decisions. At worst, tens of thousands of new unemployed can be expected at the level of government support. Therefore, in our objection to the amending budget, the Coalition Party proposes to change the aid model and to increase compensation to a level that reasonably covers the fixed costs of restaurants. The total amount of aid is approximately EUR 300 million. Let us hope that the courage of the government is sufficient to seize this real means of employment. The second point, Mr President, for which I would like a solution from the government, is the future of regional air transport. In the background of this is our national airline Finnair's announcement that it will not fly to Joensuu, Jyväskylä, Kajaani, Kemi and Kokkola during the summer of 2020 and that there is no certainty that the connections will be back after that. Decisions on these items will be made at a later date, according to the company's press release. I understand Finnair's decision. The company has been forced to do so, as air transport, as an economic sector, has suffered enormously from a corona pandemic. Yet, for us, the decision is a disaster for the regional centres and regions mentioned above. For example, scheduled air traffic from Jyväskylä is of vital importance for accessibility, connecting flights, internationalisation, regional economy, tourism, labour market, educational institutions and business conditions in Central Finland. The functioning of air transport connections directly affects the location and operating conditions of companies and investments in Finland. The Coalition Party has objected to one way of achieving this objective: the Coalition Party requires the Government to ensure that flight routes are maintained, if necessary by means of a temporary purchase service agreement. The possibility of operating in global networks must be everywhere in Finland. It is now interesting to see what the government, and especially the centre of the province, is doing. Are you involved in securing the vitality of Finland as a whole and the jobs of the provinces in this difficult situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u107	Mr President! Operating air transport not only within Finland but also from Finland to Europe and the rest of the world is extremely important for the success of our country. This is, of course, important for tourism, but it is particularly important for our industry. We have hundreds and hundreds of very important companies all over Finland, throughout Finland, which are engaged in foreign trade and for whom it is absolutely necessary that we have functional connections from that province directly to the world. And that is why ownership of Finnair is strategically important and important to the state, precisely in order to secure these connections. It is clear that if Finnair's air traffic within the country ceased, there would certainly be other airlines on some routes, but it would be precisely these functional connections that would be lost from the region directly to the world and back. It is therefore important for the Committee on Finance to state in its report that ‘the Committee considers it important that, as a result of the epidemic, air links temporarily closed will be returned to air travel as soon as they start to recover’. If we do not now have a route, then there is no demand for recovery until that route is opened and people are able to book those flights. This is what I would like to correct from the previous debate on the debatables, because the committee specifically considered this wording as to whether it was ‘starting with demand’,that it was continued,but ‘starting with air traffic’. Mr President! The Coalition Party has here proposed the introduction of purchasing traffic to ensure regional flights. The idea sounds very good, and it may be that at some point this will have to happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u116	Mr President! I would like to start by emphasising positively what I said in that debate: I think it is very important that, in these circumstances, the government has been able to make rapid decisions. We have actually received three amending budgets in a few months, and I am looking forward to that fourth, as I know that it will also be very important to support municipalities, for example, that services can be produced, that people's health and safety can also be strengthened through this. In that way, I am convinced that the government will do its utmost. I think it was important that we also heard a very positive assessment of this crisis management itself from Mr Zyskowicz, among others, earlier. And it is quite true that Finland has made a great effort here together, and that common position has certainly been needed and there has also been a great deal of cooperation in this House. Of course, it may be that the analysis is correct that, now that we begin to talk about this economic policy, about its direction — the debate is starting, is intensifying, and certainly in the autumn we are going to do so in an even bigger spirit, if you can say so — then, of course, this possible diversity of economic lines will perhaps be highlighted rather than this sort of unity, but it is now, in my opinion, President, the fact that these Finnair possibilities of the coalition are more concerned at the moment with the petty spirit of opposition, if you could say, which may have come to it. It is true, Mr Zyskowicz and the partners — I too have been in this house for a long time — that if this House sends a message to the government, as a single record of the esteemed Committee on Finance, that it will have to deal with this once again, of course, when there is a demand for air transport, I believe,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u123	Mr President! For a long time I myself have been in this house, and I must say that I have not heard of this kind of explanation. If I were Prime Minister Marin, I would be sure to say whether you are not ashamed, then the central parliamentary group will stand up for the fields of the provinces. And Mr Viitanen, you are well aware that the parliamentary group in the Assembly has done everything that the Rules of Procedure allow to be done here. The article was not open; we made a statement. If you thought this was necessary, it would certainly have been written in the report of the Committee on Finance, but it only says that you think it is important, that you do not require it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u128	Mr President! There were three major issues in this amending budget: Finnair's capitalisation of EUR 700 million, initial support for restaurants of EUR 123 million, and then these EU funds, which would receive state guarantees. If you think about that Finnair, there has been a good discussion here about how important it is to maintain all important connections with regional cities, even because we have a lot of export companies that depend on good access. We must remember that Finland is far from Europe on the island, and that is why we cannot at any time think of waiting for those good connections — they must be running all the time. And we must remember that Finland's share of Finnair is 55.8 per cent, and this shareholding has been acquired not only because of dividends but also because we have an interest: we want to maintain good transport connections to Finland, not only from Helsinki Airport, but also from elsewhere. But, of course, in the same breath, it must be said that when it comes to a listed company, we must carefully consider how it is controlled in order to remain within the framework of law and regulation. The Coalition Party has proposed that until demand and recovery takes place, these contacts with five different provincial cities could be covered by a purchase service agreement, and the reason why there is no money earmarked for it now was that at this stage this process was not open, but we really hope that this report by the Committee on Finance will be read in detail there on Finnair, so that we can understand what will state is — unless it is so well done that this vote will itself be adopted here. Then, Mr President, restaurant subsidies, EUR 123 million initially. After all, last week in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy we carefully discussed this report and it now rose to EUR 171 million — which is still quite little compared to the 350 million that the sector itself had hoped for in order to avoid bankruptcy. But this 171 million is a good compromise proposal on what was originally going to happen. However, we must remember that we still have areas of activity — tourism, travel agencies, major summer events, entertainment services, performing artists, etc. — which still do not have any specific support. I would like to ask you, Minister of Finance: have you still thought about specific support for these players, or is this entirely dependent on general support, which is now apparently coming to Parliament and which then has the idea of supporting the costs that have been incurred so far? Of course, it does not compensate for the loss of turnover that will come to them, but is there still going to be any specific support in these areas that have just been mentioned? The Coalition Party has also proposed that we should have the right to sell out wines and strong beer to restaurants, and that the alves in restaurants should be reduced. These are, in our view, the measures that the sector needs in order to ensure that recovery takes place from 1 June. Then, Mr President, last but not least, these SURE and covid funds, which give Europe money. One is about covering the risk of unemployment and the other is about a guarantee fund for investment by businesses within the European Investment Bank. They are both important and good funds in themselves, but of course they are heading in a bad direction: the EU is going back to focusing on the future development of climate change, security and trade agreements, for example, we are back in this financial debate. Of course, now that there is a recovery fund in the discussions, which Germany and France have highlighted as a EUR 500 billion package, which would only be given in the form of grants, I hope that Finland will take the view that this money cannot be given in the form of grants, but, if we go to such packages, it would clearly be a loan and there would be conditions, such as the rehabilitation of the state economy, the eradication of the black economy and so on. Mr President! Here's the most important ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u129	Mr President! First of all, for the MPs of the government parties: if you value domestic air transport, as could be deduced from your speeches, you will vote in favour of the declaration made by the Coalition Party. This result of the vote will then tell us very clearly — the Minutes are available — what is being thought about this matter in Parliament. A clear message in favour of domestic air traffic and accessibility from Parliament would now be important for provincial cities. I hope that your mind will change from today's speeches and that you will go along with this statement. The amending budget contains many important and necessary elements and, as needs to be said, the government, together with the responsible opposition, has succeeded in the epidemiological aspect of this crisis, namely that we have managed to manage the corona crisis in Finland at least for the time being and that the virus is no longer spreading as it did some weeks ago, but is rather fading. It is a big success for all Finns, and now we just have to be sure that this good development will carry on and continue. But then the whole other side is to deal with this economic crisis. These consequences of the corona crisis, which has already been seen, are very serious, and this support from restaurants is yet another indication of the stumbling block in this particular economic crisis. This support comes too late and is too small. It will not help or save restaurants from bankruptcy and huge losses. Everything should now be done to ensure that restaurants can be supported, so that we have business activities even after this crisis. Of course, this is only one sector, but it is also very important because it is the only one that has been closed by a state by a state decision — completely exceptional and, of course, goes against the articles of the Constitution on freedom of trade. In order to do so at all, it requires, as Parliament has said with great words, support for restaurants. I hope that, in the next steps, the government will rely on regional solutions to deal with this epidemic. That is absolutely necessary, because if you look at the Constitution from a constitutional point of view, how about North Karelia, for example, or even in my own region of Häme, where there are hardly any infections at the moment and there have not really been any more for weeks, is it right to keep the restaurants closed? Of course, I would understand much better that regionally, for example here in the capital region, where the epidemic has been raging, there would be stronger restrictions and then always according to what the epidemic situation is in our country. This would be fairer and we strongly encourage regional solutions. The Coalition Party proposes an increase in support for restaurants to EUR 300 million. In addition to that, we have a number of measures in our proposals that cost nothing, which are of such a standard-breaking nature. In other words, during this crisis, we could, for example, liberalise sales of alcohol and distance sales. There has also been a lot of support for this in Parliament, but we have not yet seen any action, so I hope that you will hurry on these too. I would like to say thank you for channelling money in this amending budget for the development of vaccines and the important research work of the Academy of Finland. We would be willing to invest more in it, because Finland will only emerge from this crisis by means of research and by means of science. In addition, we attach great importance to building a credible path to Finland's research and innovation funding to 4% of GDP, alongside this one-off, targeted effort. This goal was already nailed during the last term of government, and this current government has taken it on its own programme. We have not yet seen the concrete, that is, the lack of funding, the lack of a credible path that we have in view of the possibility of Finland's funding for research and innovation. It is important because when we try to push this crisis and try to push it up, it must be done with new technologies and new research knowledge, by reforming this country. Economic crises in all their severity are always an opportunity for something new to be created, and I hope that this will also be priorities that would be genuinely reflected in the government's activities. Finally, I would like to raise the starting points for higher education. There will be no hats for the coming weekend except in a very small way. Of course, our young students and graduates would have earned their festivals and hopefully will have them in the autumn too, but for them this has been a nightmare, a completely exceptional spring, and many, apart from having completed their degrees on an exceptional schedule, also struggled under changing circumstances as regards student choice in universities. It would be reasonable for these young people, and also for the future of Finland, for the government to quickly fund higher education institutions in order to increase the number of places to start in the coming autumn. So, Minister, are you ready to increase the starting points for higher education in cooperation with universities already next autumn? This will help build a more competent Finland and raise our level of knowledge and education, which is a very smart policy in all circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u130	Mr President! There's been a lot of talk here about good things. Now, both in the media and in this Chamber, it has been said that the Coalition Party would have had a different opinion at some point, and now it has suddenly translated it when it is in the opposition. I would now like to prove to you that, when I was Minister of Transport in 2014, a proposal was brought to me for a number of regional airports to be ticked off, which I said absolutely not, and I still believe that regional airports are very relevant. This is about flights, but I see that this is the first step in implementing the big picture of what has been going on for years — that is to say, it is now the first step towards that, and that is why this must be prevented. Why do I support regional airports? Global accessibility is a necessity for business. The possibility of operating in global supplier networks must be everywhere in Finland. Good air connections are a key enabler of global business and require regional airports. The operating environment for industrial production is another reason why I want to support them. In order to maintain a good industrial environment, air connections must be maintained. Good accessibility is important for international customers as well as for companies' export and maintenance activities. In the event of a reduction in the living space of industry, Finland is at risk of production being located in another country. The ownership of industrial enterprises is growing abroad, and we should hold on to Finnish ownership with claws. Research and development is the third thing. It is an international success factor in Finland. Universities, universities and research institutes, as well as companies' research, development and innovation activities are located in different parts of Finland. They need international connections and therefore regional air connections are needed regardless of where the operations are located in Finland. And then for the fourth reason, tourism. Tourism is an industry comparable to the export industry. Finland receives approximately EUR 5 billion of tourism income per year from abroad. This requires good air connections to tourist destinations across the country. The time spent by tourists in Finland is short, so they need to get close to the destination quickly. Otherwise, another destination country will be selected, and it may not be Finland. In addition to this, I would like to point out that if we now disappear — which I will see at the next stage — these regional airports, then think about it when we need to have organ transplants done and we need to have medicines for people, we need to be able to transport patients quickly to another place or, for example, to another country for intensive care. This isn't the last virus that comes in here. Even at the time when swine flu was, I said that this is not the last virus, not to mention the other exceptional circumstances that Finland may be facing with regard to climate change or something else. We need these regional airports in particular. The second point I would like to draw attention to is these starting points for universities, to which Mr Grahn-Laasonen spoke well. We have now pointed out in the Committee on Education that it would be excellent if universities could actually increase the number of admissions. But it has to come with the money, otherwise it will be withdrawn from the quality of education and from the backs of the teachers. That is why we need to raise these amounts, because we need those people. The vision of higher education and research in 2030 requires that at least half of the age group receive a university degree. It doesn't come from the method that there's no place to start. After all, universities of applied sciences have now been given the opportunity to raise starting places, but it is terribly difficult if there is no money for it. Then I would also like to talk about the fact that it is great that the Academy of Finland is getting money for the vaccine research — that is what I am in favour of — and it could really be more. After all, we have the option of concluding bilateral agreements in order to obtain a vaccine, then the second option is the EU's joint procurement mechanism, and the third is that we have our own production — but that is not enough time for this. And then we have to have one more option: we have development work, but then somewhere else production. It would certainly be one very impressive tool, and it is worth considering. Then I would like to talk about these basic services in Finland. We should get money for them fast now. I look forward to having the municipal package and the service package for children and young people at the beginning of June, because the thing is that the finances of municipalities are correlated with the services of children and young people. And I would also like to highlight the real difficulties faced by the cultural and sports sector at the moment — they are now experiencing difficulties and the functioning of basic services as well. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u131	Mr President! Indeed, we are dealing with this additional economic assessment, and there has been an in-depth discussion, among other things, about this good work that the government has now done to safeguard the position and situation of the Finnish blue and white airline, Finnair, which is important to us all. After all, in the world at the moment we are facing a situation where global air connections have actually stopped — or have been slowed down considerably from the normal situation — when there is little travel in different directions and even limited in certain countries. For small Finland, Finnair is of course a strategic ownership and, above all, an important partner in achieving different goals. Finland is an island, we are here in the north. It is important to ensure our accessibility, and it is therefore very good that the government has tackled this and that the Minister for Finance has taken it up. My corner here has worked very hard to secure Finnair's position with these mechanisms. We have also discussed this issue of securing regional air links. Now, of course, during the exception period, Finnair has temporarily terminated these connections. In fact, even in the normal times of the summer, the shifts of these quieter routes will be somewhat reduced, and now, of course, some of these routes have been temporarily discontinued for the duration of this interest rate. Today, the Committee on Finance, when dealing with the report, took a very strong position in this report on the fact that the will of Parliament is clear, the will of the owner, the state, is clear: the transport of routes which are important to the economy, businesses and industry in these regions must return as soon as after the corona situation normalises air transport. That is a very strong expression. In my own province of Central Finland, industry, export industry above all, Jyväskylä event cluster, conference guests and others need these air connections From Jyväskylä Airport to Helsinki and the world, and it is important that Finnair continues to take care of them. Now there have been some special proposals, including the opposition party's coalition, that we should build such a purchase service agreement. This is a rather special performance from a group that has been profiled as an entrepreneurial and business party. It is good, however, that you, too, have the expression of support for these regions. That's what we were waiting for last week. We were waiting for it until this weekend. But now it's here. That's what I'm so happy about. [Sinuhe-Wallin-tribe] Another major risk and risk that exists in this purchasing service traffic, which you are now offering there on the right, is that, in any case, under EU law, we are going to have to compete for these air links. That means that any company, even if an airline registered in a tax haven in that world, may win its competitive bidding. Well, it's okay. It'll be there. You can fly to Jyväskylä on an airplane owned by the tax haven company, but you can still fly with blue and white wings,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u133	Mr President! We really have an amending budget on the table here. Finnair has now spoken, and it is now great that the capitalisation and share capital given to Finnair is being increased and, as I said at the outset, the very fact that many national companies have financial problems at the moment has different solutions, and it is great that this is a domestic solution and not a Chinese capitalist, as I said at the outset, as is the case with our Norwegian airline. This is a strong sentence put forward here by the Committee on Finance. I was surprised by Mr Zyskowicz, an experienced Member of Parliament, when he praised the fact that this is a bit of lirumlarum here, but I think this is a squeezed sentence, and it is very well pointed out here exactly what regional fields mean in terms of business, tourism, accessibility of the region, and it has been done — in this Parliament too, I am sure — with a great deal of work being done together and separately in various formations. Here today we have witnessed one after another how much work has been done, and hopefully that will continue to be the case. Of course there have been different models here, for example the Lappeenranta field has been one where this provincialization has been done, and so on. Over the years, a lot of work has been done in front of our Pirkanmaa Tampere Airport, for example, and we have this kind of AirRport project and more. This phrase does not only contain a binding aspect of Finnair, but I see that there are obligations here for the other airlines — whether Air Baltic, SAS or Norwegian, whatever capital is flying — as well. When this temporary closure ends, then these too will be given an obligation here to fly forward. This motion of the Assembly: I do not know whether these words by Zyskowicz, Lirumlarum and babble words can be used, but the assembly almost lacks funding for this proposal, a credible path to achieving this. Of these 17 points, the figures in the draft amending budget for the Assembly are completely missing, there are only page numbers and annual figures, so that the Economic Party would be well advised to get to grips with these figures. I see for myself that it really is outrageous for Finnair to use this corona virus time to shut down the county fields. According to this statement from the Treasury, according to the owner's guidance and by all means possible, the fields in our provinces will be preserved. Mr President! The amending budget also includes support for restaurants, and it is great that it has now been completed, and indeed the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy squeezed this matter out in less than a week, and reforms were made, including in this monitoring period, to include more companies, including seasonal restaurants. This was discussed in earnest and by a small number of political groups, and a good result was achieved in terms of how to involve temporary workers. We must thank the officials of the ministries and the good political cooperation of our government once again for bringing this along. It amounts to about 8,000 people being involved in it and about EUR 8 million being added to it, which was achieved through the positive influence of the Ministry of Finance on this budget. In addition, the 40 million comes from this very change in time. But, indeed, there are still concerns in this environment, both for the restaurant operators and for many others, and I hope that we will have its cost support in Parliament very soon to be decided. As far as restaurants are concerned, at least in the case of restaurants — even today, in the context of these opening hours, and especially in the context of the Act on Contagion, and I hope that this will be the case here tomorrow — I see that, as regards what happens to restaurants after 1 June, what kind of support needs still exist there, for example, in restaurants open at night, and how much this will affect when these seats and restaurants are reduced, it is very important that we receive further support, this cost support, here again, perhaps this week, for further processing. In other words, very many things are being filled with this amending budget now. For example, it is precisely the Academy's funding that is being increased, and I also see that, when we start to make so-called exiti out of this interest rate, we need very much different measures that will guide it to education, research and development, and, as has been mentioned here before, I too see the government's objective of raising the money there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u134	Mr President! With regard to this amending budget No 3 for 2020, I will now comment only on this capitalisation of Finnair, participation in the share issue and participation in the guarantee arrangements and, above all, on the debate on how to secure comprehensive domestic air connections from regional airports. I believe that the National Coalition Party has been 12 years, if I do not misremember, in a row in the government before this parliamentary term, and I have come to know it as a very responsible party and party, which goes ahead of the economy and, above all, ahead of the state economy and very realistically and pragmatically, pragmatically, but it seems that the opposition is even doing wonders for such a traditional party of responsibility, the state administrator party. After all, in the opposition, it is a privilege to be able to present things without counting euro amounts to them, without thinking about what they are costing. You can come up with easy solutions, but you can also partially present unworkable solutions. And now the assembly is doing a good thing, and hopefully — and when I have listened to this debate for several hours, I understand — this whole hall, with minor exceptions, wants to secure very comprehensive air connections throughout Finland. It is a beautiful idea from the assembly to start paying Finnair direct money, to fly to Kokkola, Joensuu or, for example, to Kem, but there are many problems that I will deal with during my speech. Mr President! It is very important that we continue to have direct air links with regional cities. It is only a fact that international tourism, international business, especially industry, export industry, needs direct air links. Unfortunately, these different train-bus-flight combos are not realism at the moment. If I think, for example, of two of these cities, whose flights have now been temporarily suspended by Finnair, Kokkola and Kemi, both have a very strong export industry. There are thousands of jobs: the heavy industry in the Kemin-Tornio region, the heavy industry associated with metal processing, the Kokkola region has a strong concentration in the chemical industry, the boat business, which is quite typically such that its buyers come from a distance and need direct access to it on the spot. Mr President! Indeed, there has been a statement of this kind made here by the Assembly, for which there is no euro. They have not told us how much the government should put in order to buy connections from Finnair. The Coalition Party has made a performance like this, and they say it's okay. Why isn't it okay? It would be a beautiful idea and would sound nice in a sudden fashion, but the problem is that we cannot go to Finnair as a state in the same way as a local store and buy air connections there, that I saw and I saw many shifts in Joensuu, I saw and so many shifts in Kajaani, but according to EU law, in accordance with the state aid rules of competition law, these relations must be competitive if they are to be carried out by purchasing traffic. Furthermore, when I looked into the matter when I saw the presentation of this assembly, I found out that there are very strict criteria in EU law for when to make such a purchase, and these also apply to the interest rate period. For example, for the transport of medicines or for islands where no other road or railway is going — it seems that the government can buy connections. In my view — and I hope that the group that claims to be responsible at least — will tell us if they have a better idea — that even at the moment the route traffic is not being supported anywhere in Europe as it is being proposed. Well, it's Eestilä. Mr Helpto and many other members of the Assembly have suggested that, during the corona period, you can do anything, buy flights like in a local store, but I would be happy to hear what they have heard from which EU officials or what directive they interpret in this way. In addition, President-in-Office, the problem here is that, if we were to compete on this model of the convention, it would mean that it would not necessarily be won by Finnair, but could be won, as Mr Honkonen has well said here, for example, a company with a rather weak level in tax havens, a Chinese company, a company from God knows which country. Well, then what's the problem? The problem would be that, for example, for Kemi and Kokkola, it is not important to get to Helsinki quickly; it is essential that these industry representatives and their customers get to the world quickly, and it is also important that they get there on the spot. If an airline other than Finnair comes to operate there, these connections and these connections to the world will be broken and confused. Mr President! I think that the report by the Committee on Finance has an excellent contribution to make. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u135	Mr President! We are now gradually entering a phase where, while solving the acute corona crisis, we are also looking over the crisis and wondering what kind of Finland we want to build afterwards. It is good, therefore, to start this thought and debate in time, because there is indeed a serious challenge ahead that will certainly require consideration. There is now a need for extensive reconstruction work, both in the economy and in other areas of society. It is known that this crisis has treated many Finns very much, especially the most vulnerable ones, and that is why we must also begin to rebuild well-being with determination. Eventually, Finland will not rise without people doing well, being able to work and having sufficient skills in working life and in the world to cope. That is why, at this stage of reconstruction, it is essential to ensure that we are also better able to cope with future crises. In addition to investing in welfare and education, this calls for efforts to combat climate change, because we are well aware that climate change is already causing huge disasters in the world. They have an indirect impact on the global market economy many times more widely than just there in one place. Among other things, we know from the recent forest fires that these risks are creeping ever closer to Finland's borders. That is why we need to look immediately at the solution to climate change, especially since we know that this work can be done at the same time as investing in employment and knowledge and also increasing the economy. For example, the report of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance contains many good recommendations for this. At an acute stage, this will, of course, require, for example, the safeguarding of public transport. Much has been said today about transport connections. The most important thing is that every corner of Finland can be reached in some way. In particular, for many people with limited resources, public transport is absolutely essential if they are to be able to work, for example, but also to visit people close to them, manage things and otherwise live a smooth daily life. Now, in many places, public transport has been reduced, and it is therefore important that we try to make public transport as smooth as possible so that people can live their daily lives again, even if there is no car of their own, and that they can continue to work and work as normal as possible and also in a climate-sustaining way. At the same time, we must, of course, plan the entire transport system beyond the future. This is what is being done in the context of the 12-year transport plan. It is a good thing that this is the kind of long-term parliamentary solution in which the fight against climate change and accessibility are both the starting points. It is through this that we will be able to get rid of the kind of political colluding that has unfortunately been seen in Finland in the past decades that we will be able to make sustainable, strategically-led investments in this country, which will ensure accessibility in an economically and ecologically sustainable way. That is why it is now crucial to consider what is the longer course to which transport policy is being taken, while we are talking about these measures in the crisis phase. And really those connections can be more than just those traditional solutions. It has now been decided, for example, to invest in the development of new high-speed rail lines, which are a truly good, competitive alternative to improving the regional economy for other modes of transport. At the same time, it is of course important to ensure that people continue to be able to work and live their daily lives. Today, many people have suffered from a corona crisis, and that is why it is essential that social services be brought back on their feet as quickly as possible and that people are protected from all the help and care they need. It is extremely worrying that the queues are now stretched out when people have not dared or been treated during the corona. It is therefore important to dismantle these queues as soon as possible, for we know that if a person has to wait, then many problems will get worse and become even harder and more expensive to deal with. Prevention is therefore at the very heart of it. It also makes sense for the sustainability of the economy to ensure that people are able to work in this way, while at the same time reforming our social welfare system through social reform, so that this system can be put on a sustainable footing. Finally, I would like to draw attention to education. We know that education is one of the most cost-effective ways of improving the sustainability of the economy in terms of the future. At the same time, we know that this spring and crisis has particularly affected the lives and studies of many young people and students. That is why it is important now to really do the support package for children and young people which is about to come, and to increase the number of places to start at higher education institutions right from this autumn onwards. We know that the situation has now been enormously unfair for university applicants and graduates. We know that this spring has been very heavy. At the same time, we know that we need to move towards a higher level of education, because it rests on:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u136	Mr President! Once again, I would like to thank the Government for the fact that Finnair's capitalisation is now carried out on a market-based basis by increasing the ownership of the state, all of us Finns. Support for all large companies should be done in this way, when we get ownership against money, and when the crisis comes up, Finland’s net debt, the net public debt, is even smaller than before the crisis. There is no point in sowing money free of charge to shareholders. I would also like to thank Minister Hatainen warmly for the preparation of the restaurant support. I think it has been quite flexible. It was very important that we quickly received a proposal for Parliament and then quickly support for restaurants, although it was well known that there was still much to be done in the proposal. The structure of the aid was good in the first place because of the fact that it was precisely job-return, and it is of course a good thing that Parliament corrected the points that many of us have already called for in the referral debate to be changed. With this corporate support from Parliament, which started very badly with these development aids, the whole thing is starting to seem pretty sensible now — thanks to the whole government too. As we move towards the next amending budget, a few points need to be underlined. Indeed, the local government economy loses up to EUR 2 billion, slightly depending on the calculation, and it is important that the support received by municipalities is well over EUR 1 billion and should be divided into real interest rate losses. In Vantaa, for example, unemployment jumped from 8 to 12 per month. Now that the layoffs are included, unemployment is well over 20. We have labour-intensive in the capital region, such as... There are workers living there, there are service areas, there are many hotels, there is an airport there. We are in real trouble if these subsidies are not distributed according to their actual losses, but are to be distributed, as has often been the case in the past, in accordance with the basic system of state participation. But the government has certainly signalled that this will be the case, and I am of course counting on it myself. We also need that support package for children and young people. The fact that schools were now open — as in all the other Nordic countries, much before Finland had already been done, and of course it was known that it was worth doing so for us too — is unfortunately not enough. However, soon the schools will be on summer leave, and it is already the latest research that the situation of children and young people is quite alarming in many places. I am delighted that other parties have also become public support for this proposal on the support package for children and young people. Then, of course, when we go on, what is important is this — I myself have talked about hose feeding — what is being done with these various support schemes. As soon as society is opened up, that stimulus will be needed, and it would be good to have a look at the proposals of the Group of Economists of Finance Minister Kulmun and Minister of Economic Affairs Lintilä. The first and second phases really need to be implemented sensibly, so that from this stage of hose feeding we move on to several billions of resuscitation, so that Finland does not get caught in the recession and mass unemployment, which is expensive not only socially but also economically. It is important that these steps take place this year and next year — perhaps even the following year will have to be revived somewhat — as the economists have recommended. And then there's the pain package, the adjustment. I have always thought that the policy objective cannot be that people get hurt, but if anyone wants to see it now, then it is not the time yet. This adjustment can also be made in such ways – for example, by correcting the dividend tax system, just as the Vipriälä package suggests – which do not harm the Finnish economy, which are useful to us all. But the time for that conversation is later. I believe that everyone in this Chamber will have something to say about that package too, but in vain we are now starting to argue about it, because everyone will probably agree that it is not the time yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u137	Mr President! There are many important points in the third amending budget for 2020, as we have seen in today's debate. Air transport here has come up quite a bit, and I thought I would say a few more words about that. So all these five provinces are important, they matter. In this speech, however, I speak a little on behalf of that Kokkola field. In Central Ostrobothnia, it has been followed with concern that Finnair would not fly to the airport at all during the summer of 2020, i.e. to Kokkola-Pietarsaari. From the point of view of many export companies in the region, the flight break can be fatally long. The Kokkola-Pietarsaari region is one of Finland's most important concentration in the export industry, and the flight connection is critical. The region has leading industrial players in Finland and Europe, for example Kokkola Industrial Park, which is a major cluster of inorganic chemistry in northern Europe. The operators include Boliden Kokkola and Freeport Cobalt, Pietarsaari UPM-Kymmene, Mirka, Baltic Yachts and so on — large export companies with exports of more than 90 % and exports of between EUR 3 and 4 billion per year, between EUR 3 and 4 billion per year. The Coalition Party has presented this debate and suggests that the fields mentioned during the exceptional period should be provided with adequate flight services for business and residents, if necessary through purchase service contracts. This is now the purpose of the convention. That is all I can say here: the coalition is on the move with sincerity, seeking solutions that will ensure that the industry and major companies do not overturn these crown jewels in the months to come. This aid should be implemented through a competitive purchasing service contract. The aid is therefore temporary and, at the end of the crisis, traffic would be continued on a market-based basis. In many regions, air transport is a big issue for the regional economy and jobs. The Finnish transport network, to which air transport is part, is also a whole. Other parts of the transport network, high-speed rails and, for example, the highway network, must first be developed in order to make sense to abandon domestic air transport. Mr Kurvinen, who has now left, raised quite a point about this air transport. After all, the question is not how to get from Kokkola by plane to Helsinki, but precisely the connections of its international industry globally. In this respect, the measures that are now being taken quickly are important. Mr President! Finally, a few words on food production issues, on which the Group will also comment on this additional budget. In other words, there are currently seedlings on farms, partly already in place, seedlings have been planted and things have been taken forward. We have talked about this seasonal workforce, how it has been inadequate. Well, it's too late to yell when the milk's on the ground. Those jobs have been done, what they have been able to do. But I would hope that now that harvest time begins, or comes, as if the second wave of seasonal labor — it comes there in July when strawberries ripen and crops ripen — the government will continue its efforts to secure the availability of seasonal labour. There is still time for these solutions, because the situation is acute. Farms are already in an acute situation, and we also need to look at the profitability of farms. The coalition in this additional budget also highlights the possibility of growth-period support,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u138	Mr Kinnuse's speech is still a matter of five minutes. Let us then move on to the three-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u139	Mr President! The total increase in appropriations under the third amending budget is EUR 880 million. When you listen here to a number of additional suggestions, some of which even the numbers are missing, it comes to mind the harsh fact that all of this has to be paid back sometime. It has been estimated that the need for net borrowing by the state is about EUR 13.5 billion this year, and this will prompt us to consider how much we can and can increase net borrowing from the perspective of a sustainable economy and the carrying capacity of future generations. Responsible financial management must also be kept in mind in these difficult times in order to make the transition to post-column life as smooth and sustainable as possible in economic terms. We are at the same time dealing with the health, economic, social and social crisis, and yesterday, in the discussions on the Golden Beach, Arkadiatri Risto Pelkonen said that when the world stops, it will start a new beginning. In this light, I consider it important that EUR 10 million be allocated to the development of the coronavirus vaccine through the Academy of Finland. From the point of view of the health and safety of the citizens, I feel that this is absolutely essential. In addition to drug development, we must also be able to obtain pharmaceutical production here in Finland. We cannot rely on other countries for this and hope to be at the top of the delivery lists. National interests, safety and security of supply are best achieved through own pharmaceutical production. More emphasis should be placed on drug development and its production. Another good thing is the development of this tracking application. We know more about the epidemic all the time, and when the epidemic may be prolonged, it is challenging, especially from the point of view of risk groups. We need to get to effective testing. In order to target testing and thus take timely isolation and treatment measures, we need to be able to track potential carriers and sufferers in order to control the spread of the virus in the big picture. Hopefully, the tracking application will be available as soon as possible. Mr President! Good air transport is very important to us. There has been a touching consensus here on behalf of the provinces and, of course, the means have been different, but everyone has been in favour of the provinces. That is why it is a little difficult to vote and by voting to show who is in favour of the provinces. I agree with the opinion of the Committee on Finance that ensuring regional accessibility, business and tourism requires comprehensive domestic and international air links. I think it is important to restore the air links that have been temporarily abolished because of the epidemic, and that is something that we all certainly want to work towards. There are many sized companies in the provinces with international connections. In fact, Congressman Sankelo raised the Kokkola field, which is also the closest province to me. I hope that this vision of the value of the provinces will continue in other decisions after that. I trust that Finnair, taking responsibility for society and listening to the will of the main owner, will be able to handle this matter. Mr President! Civilization, continuous learning and knowledge will lift us out of the corona. We need places to start, we need a support package for children and young people, and I hope that it will also take into account families. We need research, development and innovation. All of this will help us to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u140	Congressman Vehviläinen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u141	Mr President! Many people here have said how long they have been here and that we should look at this from those points of view. I will take a look at this with you from that point of view. For four years I have been Minister of Transport and I have seen how difficult it is to organise purchasing services, and I will also, of course, look at this situation as a North Karelian and a Member of Parliament from the river. I think it is quite clear that the most important thing is that Finnair can return these flights to these five airports as soon as possible. It must be our common goal to return them as quickly as possible. As far as Joensuu is concerned, in 2019 there were 127,000 passengers and half of them were business passengers, i.e. not those who came to the capital region, but those who went to the world with good, flexible connections — companies such as Abloy, John Deere, Mantsinen Group and so on, and for them these connections are incredibly important. With regard to this initiative, I have received a call from a representative of the Chamber of Commerce from my own region this morning and he was extremely concerned and said that under no circumstances do you go along with the proposal of the Assembly, do not go along with it. And why did he say that? He said so because of the fact that, of course, priority is precisely the fact that we have market-based transport connections and not connections in line with this uncertain purchasing service. Finnair has been a very good partner for Joensuu. We have been able — if we have seen that our morning shift has not been sufficiently early for further contacts with the world — to negotiate with Finnair that changes can be made, and I think that this has been an incredibly important value. So, what are those shopping services? In this respect, I would particularly like to draw attention to the fact that you do not see the rosary dream that they are quickly available by clicking your fingers. My experience of purchasing services is that it will take a year, first of all, to make a public service obligation for each route separately, then to make a joint call for tender here in the EU and then to stress whether there will be any operators. And I say that Finnair has never taken part in these Finnish competitions that have been made, and that is why I think this is particularly a trick in this debate. When more people in this House say that they have certain knowledge that this can be done and that this can be done immediately, I would like to ask you – for example, Mr Eestilä here can tell us – what and who of the EU is the source that has told you this and has better information than I or the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Of course, it is particularly interesting to know what you are basing it on, that they can be implemented flexibly, suddenly and that they do not need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u142	Mr President! When I made the reservation, I did not know that Mr Zyskowicz was speaking here, half of which he was devoting to me on 19 May. to the floor that I have spoken. I was not in the Chamber but I listened to it, and I must say that I thank Mrs Zyskowicz for having made an excellent speech in which she said what the position of the coalition is now really and truly in relation to the way in which we have managed to combat the corona epidemic. The situation in which I myself said a little harshly at the time was one in which I had heard 20 contributions from the people of the United States, of which one representative used six in a row, and that was nothing but criticism, and I must say that, of course, I gave a great deal of counter-criticism. But it is a good thing that came to light, and I am happy to quote here later today from the very good and positive speech by Mr Ben Zyskowicz. I asked for my speech — perhaps a surprise — in this Finnair debate because I have some experience of what Mr Vehviläinen has just said. For many years I was on the board of the medical helicopter company FinnHEMS Oy, and that has put me in competition. We have six bases, of which the three north, Rovaniemi, Oulu, Kuopio, are their own and the three south, Helsinki, Turku, Tampere are their own. This is a EUR 200 million tender, which means that we have a different operator in the north and a different operator in the south, and I have never been involved in such difficult tendering. It was practically prepared for a couple of years, and it has also been a very controversial process since then. Well, then, how would we really do it if it was the horror scenario? — Although I myself am a Member of Parliament here in southern and south-west Finland, I do have strong solidarity with the provinces in which, at least in the light of this debate, air links would be threatened. — In my opinion, there are in principle two ways: Of course, Finnair is a listed company, but it is nowhere defined that a large listed company cannot operate in one of its operating units with less margin or even a unit-by-unit loss, provided that the total operating result is profitable. This is, of course, a difficult situation in which competition is fierce and price competition in particular. The second is the purchase service procedure. It will then have to consider whether it is a buying state or whether it is a province or whether it is a central city, as is currently the case in Satakunta, the city of Pori buys three daily backways between Pori and Helsinki in order to make it possible for the Pori people to have a flight connection here. I am afraid that we will have this debate in the autumn, but, as I said, there are a couple of different ways to deal with it. This capitalisation of Finnair is not part of the voting process, just as the Minister of Finance did in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u143	Mr President! That presentation may sound really good in the audience's ear, but we need to learn more about it here so that we can make decisions fairly and in such a way that they will, however, carry out this Finnair operation. That is what I would like to say briefly about this committee's report: it is now stated here that, once the corona has been eased, this air travel to these five provinces will be returned. Somehow it comes to the feeling that Finnair has better experts on this corona disease than we do these other experts, because they predict that in a year's time there may be a situation where there will be no flying. In some ways, I feel like there is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u146	Ärade Herr Talman! I den tredje tillaggsbudgetpropositionen för 2020 anvisas anslag för att underlätta Finnairs location och restaurantföretagarnas finansiella situation samt för kostnaderna för hantering och bekämpning av coronaviruses. I anslagen föreslås en höjning på sammanlagt 832 million euro, varav ett tillagg på 700 million euro för statens actiförvärv i Finnair för att stärka Bolagets eget capital och finansiella ställning. Förgottgörelse av begränsningarna i restaurantngverksamheten och för återanställning av personalen föreslås ett stöd på 123 million euro. Riksdagen har dock ändrat regeringens proposition om stöd för återanställning ochgottgörelse för verksamhetsbegränsningarna till restaurangerna på ett mycket bra stätt. Bland att man har ändrat jämförelsemånaderna från januari—februari till att i stället reapril—maj i fjol. Det har också gjort att behovet av stöd harökat med 48 million euro. Utskottet har gjort en motsvarande ändring är i tillagsbudgeten. Finlands Akademis bevilningsfullmakt höjs också med 10 million euro bland give för att stödja forskning i vacciner och läkemedelsutveckling. Dossutom föreslås 6 milioner euro för utgifter för anskaffning, ibruktagande och underhåll av en application för spårning av covid-19-smem.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u147	Mr President! Surviving interest depends entirely on how well Finland as a whole is able to participate in voluntary activities. As a representative of Eastern Finland, I have been concerned to see how before the corona in this country there was a strong tendence of concentration, where life was sucked into the golden triangle and especially into the capital region from the rest of the country. With interest, we have learned the hard way how untenable it is to concentrate life closely on one place and one area. This is already completely unsustainable from the point of view of security of supply and self-sufficiency. With regard to the five airports that are now closed, it has been said that the situation will be examined in August. As far as Joensuu is concerned, it is already known that the situation will only be examined there in November — a completely intolerable situation for a university city with numerous business and production centres for international companies. Minister Skinner, among other things, has very well highlighted the importance of repatriating key value chains of production to Finland. This is an extremely important point in terms of security of supply and self-sufficiency, but at the same time it is a very important factor of employment and economic improvement. How on earth will any production be released here if the conditions for action are taken in this way? It has, of course, been quite interesting to follow the debate on this subject today in this Chamber. Even from the centre of the city has been openly laughed at about this, even though it is a very serious matter for the provinces. It has also been suggested from the centre that there is no use for these routes anyway. Yes, they do. [Interjection in the middle]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u148	Mr President! When you listen to Mr S.H.I.E.L.D.'s speech, it reminds me of a house downtown. How warm it is for the assembly to be concerned about the provinces and the connections of the provinces! I would, of course, like to see that concern be felt at a time other than this, when the opposition is only going to make proposals against the government, as it were. What the government has recorded in that report is very heavy, and it also says that we are moving forward, so it may be pointless to go out and make such a presentation, let me say, in the spirit of left-wing populism, as one of the Finns in that social media described a situation in which a convention would particularly buy flights with open credentials without presenting any euro to buy these flights. Otherwise, perhaps there would have been reason for the Minister of Transport to be here today, because this is so closely related to transport. For example, from that front row of the coalition, or second row, it was suggested today that this could be done with a small amount of bureaucracy. I don't know where this information came from. At least when we have asked about this in the Ministry, it has been said that, in particular, the Commission has considered that, in the event of an emergency, for example, in order to safeguard the supply of medicines or to build connections to places such as islands or other places where public transport or public transport cannot be managed quickly, it is possible to deviate from these rules. Otherwise, the fact that we have public service services and a purchase service contract would be primarily market-based and would then assess whether public transport is otherwise available nearby. In other words, I would have liked the assembly to have studied this in real terms, because if, according to purchasing service contracts and the model of the assembly, we would still not have flights this summer in these sights. A district councillor also wrote on Twitter that ‘from which the assembly has been involved in the fight against market power, the promotion of rural respiration and bloating’. I am not taking a stand on the thinking of this city councilman, but I am essentially saying that it would be worth the vote to find out now what they think of this matter and which model is the best model. In my view, the model we have put forward in the committee's report is the best model to ensure that airlines survive and catch up as quickly as possible. But I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying to the people of Peru today that the government is withholding information on the amount of debt and guarantee liability in the euro countries: I would like to note that the Committee on Finance has submitted a request for further information to the large committee and we have also received reports from the Committee of Ministers on financial responsibilities in interest rate measures at EU level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u149	Mr President! It is also clear from this debate that operating air transport connections to the regions and functioning transport connections in general are important to us all, from the point of view of business and employment as well as accessibility and security of supply. Mr President! The third amending budget for the year now provides EUR 171 million to support restaurants and re-employment of workers. The aid will help restore fast the functioning of restaurants and raise employment in the sector from the crisis. This is indeed important, because we cannot afford to repeat the mistakes of the recession of the 1990s. At that time, even viable companies went bankrupt while welfare services were being cut off. The resulting costs of exclusion are still being paid today from both a human and an economic point of view. I have been pleased that during this crisis this government has focused on safeguarding people's health, well-being and livelihood. This amending budget invests in the development of both the anti-coronavirus vaccine investigation and the traceability application, and this is certainly also appropriate for the opposition. Mr President! However, the results of the survey published today by Save the Children's Association are worrying to read. More than 3,000 children responded to the questionnaire, and more than one in four experienced a very poor or rather poor mental well-being due to the exceptional situation. As many as 43 per cent of children in deprived families experienced this. This is a message that we must take very seriously. The Government has announced that it will prepare for the next amending budget a support package for children and young people. This is a very important initiative and we should now work together to ensure that the package is as broad and well targeted as possible. Finnish teachers deserve a big thank-you for the huge work they have done this spring. However, it has to be noted that according to a survey by Save the Children's Association, the majority of children, especially children of families with low incomes, were affected by distance education and increased stay at home. 75 per cent of all respondents felt that coping with studies had become more difficult or weakened due to distance learning. We must now allocate additional resources to the authorities working with children and families so that we can contain the negative effects of this exceptional spring in the lives of children and young people. For example, maternity clinics, day-care centres, schools and youth workers are all important pillars of our society, and their work must now be strengthened. The support package promised to municipalities will also be extremely important for securing welfare services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u150	Värderade Talman! Vi är fortfarande mitt inne i en världspannande pandemic aven om det på grund av den kommentde sommaren och upphävandet av olika restrictioner kan kännas ljusare och som om det värsta redan är förbi. Så kan det också vara för tilfället, men sakkunniga världen över förutspår att coronaviruset har kommit för att stanna. Finland har hits klarat av att haftera epidemi på ett föredömligt jätt, men det har kostat oss dysrt. Sjukårdskostnaderna skjuter i höjden, företagens verksamhet har på många håll satts på is, restaurantangerna har förutom take away inte fått fungera alls, många medborgare har mist sina jobb eller är permitterade och kommunerna är på grund av ökande utgifter och sinande katteinkomster i stor kris. Den tredje tillaggsbudgen ger nu finansiellt stöd åt restauranterna som verklogen behöver det, till Finnair för nänstan total utbliven flygverksamhet, till EU:s nödfond för att lindra arbetslöshetsrisker och till den victiga vaccinforskningen och till utvecklandet av en spårnningsapp för covid-19.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u151	Mr President! Under the leadership of their chairman, Halla-aho, the Finns have started a strong criticism of these joint European actions in this context of the corona crisis. Mr Halla-aho is not here, but Mr Junnila is here, and he also spoke in connection with the debate. — This speech, too, is more debatable because I did not receive the floor during the debate. Representative Halla-aho stated that EU-led action is creating an unnatural link between fate — he used the term ‘unnatural fate’. Is it not exactly the opposite, Mr President? It is precisely this corona crisis that highlights the natural destiny of the countries of Europe. The European Union has acquired sovereign authority; Finland has abandoned some of its sovereignty in this system of shared sovereignty, where legislation is being adopted at Union level that concerns us. But we have not given up sovereignty because there is a willingness to limit our sovereignty, but we have given up our sovereign power of decision to the level of the Union because there are problems that we simply cannot solve here in Parliament, on Arkadianmäki. Why? Because these problems do not respect Finland’s national borders. In that respect, this natural connection of fate comes up against us when we talk about the corona, a pandemic like the corona. We see that the whole world is, in fact, in the midst of this crisis and is facing it together, when these European measures — including these guarantee arrangements that are now being made here, both in relation to this employment fund, within the framework of its own fund for the European Investment Bank, which is going to go to SMEs, and also through the European stability mechanism — are all the common European responsibility which makes us genuinely involved in that Union. After all, the large committee dealt with these issues, the issue now in the decision-making process, and took a clear position that this solidarity debt is not being increased here. Here, too, budgetary sovereignty is not affected at the end of Finland and, very importantly, each country is responsible for its own economic policy. They exist in this context, which makes it easy for us to support these arrangements. It is the common European responsibility for a common crisis that affects all of us, a crisis that does not respect national borders. We are in a natural context of destiny in Europe. Mr President! There has been a lot of talk about Finnair here, and all I want to say is that air transport is in an exceptional crisis historically, perhaps the biggest crisis in its history. These exceptional times
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u152	Mr President, värderade talman! Vi har nu i vår hand den tredje tillaggsbudgeten som handlar om total EUR 832 million. Det finns många bra delar i den, men den stora punkten är att stärka Finnairs ekonomis med 700 million euro i nuläget då flygbranschen har det mycket tufft. Många flyg i hela världen står stilla på flygfälten just nu. Detta stöd till Finnair är också viktigt med tanke på självförsörsörjningen. En hel del critik har hörts rai i dag kring det factum att Finnair meddelat att man inte kommer att flyga till fem oilka flygfält i sommar. De rau regionala flygfälten är viktiga för tillgängligheten, näringslivet och tourismen regionalt. Exporten är otroligt viktig för Finland, och flera av de regionala flygfälten är vägen ut i världen för att se till att landet får friska pengar att finansiera väldssamhället. Vi talar om ett exportvärde på flera billionaire euro årligen. Finansutskottet har i sitt betankande poängterat att det är viktigt att man får igång flygtrafiken igen, då flygtrafiken generalellt fungerar igen såväl nationalellt som globalt. De regionala flygfälten är inte bara viktiga för resor till och från Helsingfors utan även till exempel Stockholm, men även för privatplan. Det är inte bara en gång som ett privatplan har landat bland let på flygfältet i Kronoby under åren, och då handlar det om köpare av segelbåtar som exporteras från Jakobstadstrakten ut i världen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u153	Mr President! The number of flights in Finland and around the world has indeed been very low, as the number of passengers has naturally decreased considerably during the corona period. In my view, it is also normal from the point of view of Finnair's operations to reduce flights where there is hardly any traffic. I suppose it is quite honest to say that travelling within Finland can be replaced by a train, bus, car or another airport by flying this way during an exceptional period of time,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u156	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the Committee on Finance for your good work. Much has now been said about this proposal for Finnair's purchase service agreement, and I will raise a few points in this respect. In my former life, I was the mayor of Enontekio’s municipality, and I was in the process of organising this type of public service service service service service contract in the municipality of Enontekio. This really is not a finger-clicking act to do. First, the state should impose a public service obligation on all these routes, then apply to the EU for further notification of this, then make EU-wide tendering. In addition, there is a very likely need for a counterpart other than state money, for example, from the municipalities in the region or from the regions. In the worst case scenario, if this proposal were to be implemented, it would be a death kiss for these provincial airports, when air traffic could possibly go on land for more than a year, because no one would return traffic on market terms if they knew that the State was prepared to invest in these connections through a purchase service agreement. However, it is a good thing that in this Chamber, although there are ambiguities about the means, we have a common will to ensure that all air connections are important and that the traffic to that province is secured. To Mr Pitko, I believe that in a common state of will, which is also called a government programme, we do not intend to reduce air transport. Of course, it may be possible at some point, when we genuinely have good replacement connections, but at the moment, for example, there is no such route to the Arctic Ocean, and Lapland is totally dependent on good air traffic connections. Personally, I would say that, as shocking as this proposal by the Assembly is, if it is responsible, it will withdraw this proposal, because it has been shown to you in many speeches that it is simply an unacceptable proposal. [TimoHeinonenarvous] The Christian Democrats had better thinking, and I myself would see that, in terms of ownership policy, there could be a wider debate as to whether, as the main owner, the state could set a strategic objective for Finnair to secure air traffic in these district areas in a certain way. It might be a workable way, but it's a different place to talk and it has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u157	Mr President! Here we have had very contradictory speeches on what the government's line is, whether we want to restore competitiveness by ensuring sufficiently fast transport connections throughout Finland or whether we do not want to. [Vilhelm Junnila’s interlude] But there was also a lot of constructive elements in Mr Kärnä's speech above, and I also appreciated the part where you clarified the government's line that it is now not entirely in the hands of the Greens, although it may have been possible to conclude something like that in the past. But this, that Mr Kärnä really has a very good knowledge of this tendering tool, should be more effective in harnessing the government. Mr Vehviläinen said this earlier, as it were, as if it were impossible to do, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u158	Mr President! It is precisely these last two speeches that we must agree with, in the sense that Mr Kärna, on the basis of his own experience, has brought up the reality of what this means. I can say, as a hundred people, that with the purchase service agreement we are in a special situation and the province costs tens of millions of euros. I don't recommend anyone go to this high-risk game.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u161	Mr President! It is now easy to agree with the words of Mrs Myllykoski, Mrs Myllykoski, about Satakunta and the problems associated with it — just a few more details of her speech. Pori is now putting 3.4 million out of its own pocket in this connection and using a foreign company, a Hungarian company, which I think is quite wrong. Whether we are the fifth or the fourth largest exporting country, but we are still an important factor in this map of Finland, and for that very reason, I would like to sign that I hope that this matter will be put right so that the province will not have to pay and the city of Pori will not have to pay for these flights alone and that this connection will continue to be maintained. But then I will return to this supplementary budget issue. This specific support for nutritionists is still far too small after the amendments of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and it will not be enough. In addition to compensation, entrepreneurs also need support to drive up their activities. We know that it has been quiet for two months now and there are no customers, and now, gradually, then at the beginning of June, we will see how the people return to the nutrition stores, and then, when there are these regulations which have been set — this is that half will be able to reach the limit of 50% — it will not, of course, provide entrepreneurs with income to cover the costs. Removing restrictions will certainly not bring enough customers. Fixed, running costs are unlikely to be met, and it will take time to restore consumer confidence. It is also worth noting that the tasks of nutritionists will only increase as restaurants open again, as the number of customers needs to be kept at the level required by the restrictions and hygiene and safety will also be ensured. Is it, then, that we also need to hire more staff, a door porter who then calculates the amounts and takes care of them? Restaurant staff will hardly be able to monitor all this while working. As far as these subsidies are concerned, according to Eurostat, Finland's budgetary guarantees relative to total output in 2018 were the highest in the EU countries. And, Mr President, the question inevitably arises as to whether we should be involved in these joint European support mechanisms, and I fear that there will be a very long paper coming on Wednesday or Thursday at the latest, which may still be of mutual solidarity. We are already in a situation with responsibilities where nothing is enough. Just now I was listening to the news and I heard how our President, too, unequivocally warned us of these dangers. And, of course, if there were members of the government, I would like to ask whether this is our objective and whether we want to do so and whether, for example, we do not listen to the President's wise words.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u162	Mr President-in-Office of the Council! With regard to this issue of Finnair, the fact that, in criticising the statement of the Convention and giving excuses for the government's intention to overthrow it here, all possible and impossible arguments have been put forward against that impetus. Let me just say briefly that, if the problem here is with these purchasing service contracts, then in the effort which requires the government to ensure the continuation of the flights on these airports, it is stated that ‘where appropriate, a purchase service contract’. If you have better ways or the government has better ways, then we'll use them. While the centre of social media today and in advance strongly defended this extension of air transport to the provinces, even hinted at the harsh conditions for dealing with this additional budget, but here they are, on the same subject, lambing, then perhaps the good thing for the next parliamentary elections to the centre of the slogan would be to ‘Corporate — in the toughsome’. Then there are other things. In my earlier speech, I thanked the government for the fact that I believe that this epidemic itself has been managed very well. This is evidenced by objective figures such as the number of people in intensive care, the number of people in hospital and also the number of deaths. At the same time, of course, we could have thanked the opposition, because they were set up together and, above all, thanks to the Finnish people, who, under these circumstances, have behaved very responsibly and rationally. Of course, there is a difference of opinion about the details. It is not so much about combating this epidemic but more about these details when society is being opened up. The objective is a common one, i.e. to get as close to zero as possible to infection, while taking into account the need to open up society. But what I blame the government for is, among other things, that these restrictions on restaurants are not going into a regional evaluation. I would not be opening nightclubs all over the country, but you can ask, on good grounds, why in every country there are cafés and lunch places to hold on to according to the same rules or customer places to be determined according to the same rules as here in Uusimaa, where the epidemic is clearly still in power. I also expect even stronger testing and tracing by the government. Finally, I have to say that I do not understand where the government has come from this culture of secrecy, which has been strongly expressed in recent days.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u163	Mr President! I am very pleased that, in today's debate, there has also been a great deal of mention in the government parties of the need to increase the number of starting places for higher education institutions. That's what's in the government program, but there's no money in the public finance plan. Indeed, many have raised this need to increase the number of starting places for universities — universities, universities of applied sciences, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Culture, it was raised in the Vipriälä report — but one is missing: there is no government position. Now that the government parties have put forward and pointed out that this is a good proposal, I hope that perhaps you will consider supporting the statement by the Assembly. We have proposed that the government should reserve a separate budget for higher education institutions and bring the proposal to the House so that those starting places can be increased as early as next autumn. At least I hope that this message will go to the next amending budget to be brought to Parliament in June. This would also be justified by the fact that this coronal spring has been very difficult for young people when the matriculation examination had to be postponed. And also, when my esteemed representative Mr Zyskowicz raised this culture of secrecy, it would have been good to have had a minister here and told us why the government was preparing to dismantle the restrictions, to open Finland, to think about raves, amusement parks and many more — so the universities were not involved. Would the situation be different if there had been cooperation with universities, would it have been said that Finland would be opened up? At the time, universities should not have taken the decision to violate the legal protection of applicants and to amend the selection procedure in the course of the joint application. Now this is being investigated by the Assistant Attorney General. More places will not replace this, but it would be reasonable for young people to have more of them. But then about this culture of secrecy. Although the ministers are not present, I say that the main task of the leaders is to create an organisational culture, and transparency has not been a strength in the leadership of Prime Minister Marin. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has pointed out that there has been too little information, that the Chancellor of Justice is investigating the matter, and I have just mentioned this matter of application. I would like to ask — although there are no ministers here, perhaps the members of the government party know that — why, for example, the whole coordination group that led this corona crisis has hidden the documents. Why? Why were they published only when the pressure on the public was really high? And is it the case that these protective equipment are still being hidden? Why? For the credibility of the government, it would be necessary to know what and when has been known within the government in order to compare what has been said to Parliament and the Finnish people. President! I say this because we would not make the same mistake in obtaining vaccines as has been done with protective equipment. And that's why it's important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u164	Mr President! The EU has planned a EUR 100 billion Guarantee Fund for managing unemployment risks. In this additional budget, the government will provide 432 million in a separate guarantee — at least that is what we are told. The truth is somewhat different, namely that Finland's share of this guarantee liability is EUR 1.7 billion, as three-quarters will be rolled over through the EU budget, and this would be a good thing to discuss in public. That is why the Finns have tabled amendments, which I warmly support. I refer to proposals 2, 3 and 10. I also like KD proposal 32. For Finland, the fund is of no use, as we get cheaper credit from the market than the countries of crisis in the south, and we should not forget the EUR 370 million that sinks into the covid-19 fund. The Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Koskinen, predicted here that Finland's participation in the arrangement would be a promille risk. I consider the opinion to be rather irresponsible, as it includes the assumption that the Member State will repay the loan as agreed and that the loss cannot be covered either by the capital invested. However, if Italy, which owes more than 2000 billion, fails to pay, Finland will have to capitalise more on the European stability mechanism. This risk isn't a grade one. If there were, Italy would get as cheap a loan on the market as Finland still does, and because it is not, such a system will be created in which the debt will become common. Finland therefore pays debts from other countries. There's a risk here, too. The finance ministers of the Member States form the Board of Governors of the ESM. Without a parliament, without a government and without a Finnish taxpayer, it can decide on additional capital. In addition, Finland has already invested EUR 1.44 billion in the stability mechanism and committed EUR 11.14 billion. In addition to the EUR 371 million liability of the Investment Bank, the Bank of Finland has a significant number of bonds, estimated at up to EUR 10 billion. Then there is a recovery fund, where Finland accounts for at least EUR 8.5 billion, possibly even more. — No, this risk is not of a pro mille nature. It's all concrete, like these figures here. Mr Kiljunen said that the Member States are still responsible for their economy. How does this responsibility materialise in practice when risks and responsibilities are constantly transferred to other countries, such as small Finland? How can you at the same time talk about the responsibility of the Member States themselves when, however, debts are shared? Mr President! Do I have to worry? Yes, and as far as this situation in the provinces is concerned, we will soon see how the centre votes. My guess is that in the same way as the Greens, against the villages, against the local areas and against the vitality of the countryside.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u165	Mr President! This amending budget has responded to the real threats that this corona virus has brought to Finland and Finland. I listened to these speeches in my own office, and when Mr Heinonen spoke, it was so rural that it was necessary to dry the corner of the eye when Mr Heinonen had once come to the rural side.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u175	Mr President! Mighty words from my colleague, Mr Hoskos. I myself am here as a representative of the provinces — we all come from a province — and I must say that these Finnair decisions came as a total shock at least to us in North Karelia and to the other five areas affected by these closures. It was a shock to the effect that, although I am only a Member of Parliament for the first time, for eight years I have been on behalf of the Regional Union for lobbying and this came entirely from behind the tree, as a complete surprise. There has always been such a golden point in lobbying that we go on market terms, fly blue wings, blue and white wings, Finnair's wings, and we have tried to avoid the word purchasing service, because we are aware of all the things that have been said in this Chamber about the challenges of purchasing services. I would like to make it clear to Mr Car — I was hearing it myself — that Mr Vehviläinen here did not say that the purchase service was impossible, but, like Mr Kärnä and many others, he said how challenging and difficult it is to implement and how slow it is to do so. In fact, I have received the same message now as many other representatives from the provinces that do not just go to that purchase service with a long stick, because it would then be certain that commercial flights will no longer come back to the provinces, and that is a genuine state of fear in those regions. And I personally see it as a rather bad negotiating position that this hall would send a message to Finnair that okay, if you do not want to carry out those market-based flights, then we will come and buy. Perhaps it would be quite easy to imagine at home that the government is only making a decision and then giving a money hook and someone will fly, but this is not how it works. Unfortunately it wants to be so that when there is someone like this temporary thing, then it often remains permanent, and in this case it would remain permanently difficult and permanently uncertain. In my opinion, the only way is now to influence it through corporate governance and, as has already been said here, these flights must be maintained and restored to the same situation as before the corona. This is what we need to hold onto. And I regret to say that opposition policy has come back to this Chamber. This is beginning to be just like making corners and making black and white and wanting to show that things are simple, but that is not always the case, as is this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u176	Mr President! Former Minister of Transport, Vehviläinen from North Karelia...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u179	Mr President! Archiatri Risto Pelkonen wisely stated yesterday in the discussions on Gold Beach that every stop changes the world, gives us the opportunity to look for new and forgotten careers. It is great that there has been a wide-ranging debate on regional policy here in Parliament. We want to fly to the provinces with blue and white wings. Congressman Zyskowicz called us downtown sheep-bearers. As an old sheep farmer, the sheep is a fine community animal. It's curious and active,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u182	Mr President! This amending budget will enable many of the aid needed for our society and for the EU's carrying capacity to cope with the corona crisis. The purpose of these subsidies is to save jobs and secure people's livelihoods. It is important that the support package for restaurants was finally put in place and that support is now being allocated to restaurants and the restaurant sector for both fixed costs and the reemployment of people. Mr President! The problem of interest rates is not over, although, fortunately, the situation has now been well controlled in Finland. It is important that with this amending budget we support vaccine and drug development research and the acquisition, introduction and maintenance of the tracking application. The vaccine and this effective tracking of infections are a prerequisite for us to suppress the corona epidemic and to continue to dismantle restrictions in a controlled manner. Mr President! This amending budget does not yet bring any relief to the finances of municipalities. The fourth amending budget to be adopted in June will indeed be needed. According to current estimates, the local government finances will be weakened by the interest rate crisis by up to EUR 2 billion this year. There's been a lot of talk here about the provinces. I would like to highlight the province of Uusimaa, which is estimated to have a negative economic impact of the interest rate on its municipalities of almost EUR 900 million. In its report on the second amending budget, the Committee on Budgets stressed the need to support municipalities in a way that specifically targets the costs of the interest rate and the loss of tax revenue. This really must be done. Mr President! This amending budget is important for the recovery path, but the next step must be to focus on the sustainable recovery of the Finnish economy. As many experts have said in addition to the government, action must now be chosen to accelerate Finland's transition towards a carbon-neutral circular economy and to prevent biodiversity loss. Lead economists also confirm that sustainable recovery is the most effective way for the economy to recover. Local authorities must also be involved in the construction of these recovery packages. Here I would like to highlight the MAL agreements between the state and large cities, which can speed up affordable housing construction and sustainable urban mobility projects, such as rails and cycle paths. These are the key building blocks of the stimulus package that contribute to strengthening the vitality of cities, precisely those cities whose economies are being particularly disciplined by the plight of service jobs. Mr President! It is important that recovery measures are implemented in an ecological and socially sustainable way, so that everyone stays involved. Investing in education and training plays an important role in this. This too remains partly to be resolved in the next amending budget. I would like to thank Mr Kinnus for his excellent speech on the welfare of children, a report just published. This is something that we really need to pay attention to. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u183	Mr President! It is certainly true that this crisis has involved a huge amount of debt money across the globe and the market economy has not been able to face this crisis without support and assistance. If someone has not understood this in this Chamber, then you should open your eyes and say, honestly, that there is no market economy. [AnttiCall] The centre has never been so unhappy in the defence of the provinces — Mr Kinnunen, you stand up straight for the left-wing government, but at the same time against the provinces. In the explanatory statement, you will raise concerns about these fields in one sentence. Is it, then, mainly a knock on the sideline to say that hopefully these flights will come back and the government will “consider it important”? You would have required or had required that action be taken,but this was a central incompatibility,that‘it is considered important’that they should return occasionally. In the Middle-Finnish, it is written about representative Honkonen: ‘Honkonen trusts that flights can also be operated by security officers under a quiet agreement. “ The chairman of the central parliamentary group, Mr Kurvinen, you are a lawyer from your education, and I would like to ask what this silent agreement of the Sanna Marin government, referred to by Vice-President Honkonen of the centre, means. Is it in accordance with the law on limited liability companies to conclude such silent contracts, and will the other shareholders be informed that you have entered into such silent contracts on certain occasions? And in the interest of transparency, it would certainly be good to know what are the shifts that Sanna Marin's Board of Directors has made under a silent agreement that Finnair has now been forced to fly. We hope for an answer to this. The government has said its communicative values of reliability, transparency, clarity, interaction and courage. To what do you think Finnair's silent agreement on these, Mr Kurvinen, is appropriate? Above all, it's foolhardy. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u185	Mr President! If, now that we are discussing air transport, we also allow a small amount of metaphors to be used for that air transport: Before each flight departs, safety instructions are read to remind us that if the air pressure on the flight suddenly drops, oxygen masks will automatically appear from the top panel in front of each passenger, and it is very important that the oxygen mask be placed first on its own face before helping other passengers. And this is also true of the fact that we cannot now use the whole toolbox, which would be good to introduce, so that these links, which are absolutely essential to Finland's competitiveness and to the vitality of the regions, can be put in place. The EU specifically encourages the Member States to cope with the situation that this global pandemic has created for us. But, Mr President-in-Office, I would also like to emphasise that this shopping service is also available as a tool if necessary. Mr President! Of course, many speeches have been made during this debate, but, admittedly, the most harsh language has been heard from the front of the red-green government, for example, when, as I understand it, he was the vice-president of the Left Alliance, Mr Saramo said that it would be cheaper to drive passengers by taxi to the provinces than to implement this model of coalition. I do find that a very sad message, for example, in Kemi-Tornio, if you think that there is going to be, for example, a billion-dollar investment in bioprocessing by Metsä Group. And when we get these investments to Finland, where bioprocessing makes products of sustainable Finnish raw material to the world, then we do the eco-works that actually save the world, not by not leaving that domestic flight unflying. Or is it, for example, a bad message for the workers of the Tornio steel plant, which happens to be the largest iron recycling plant in the world as a workplace. There comes scrap iron from the world, which is then processed into the world’s finest stainless steel — the largest recycling plant in the world. This is the message of the Finnish Red-Green Government to an employee who needs that flight connection to carry out his own work in the global group, that, yes, it is cheaper to drive you from Vantaa by taxi there than to implement this decision of the Coalition Party? So, admittedly, there's quite a lot of greetings from a government representative now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u189	Mr President! The budget provides EUR 700 million for the capitalisation of Finnair. At the same time, the state company has reported further layoffs and the opening of long-distance routes, but with foreign labour. This is a very worrying signal. When applying for state support for the vitality of a Finnish airline, Finnair simultaneously outsources work outside Finland. Now that the debate has flashed purchasing services to safeguard domestic air traffic, it is essential that the work is done by the Finnish labour force and preferably by the Finnish company. A responsible national airline is Finland’s advantage in terms of security of supply, business and tourism. State-owned companies should have increased social responsibility, and this is further highlighted in a situation where they receive a number of subsidies from the State in order to cope with the corona crisis. In addition to cabin crew, Finnair's technology was also outsourced to a large extent for cost reasons, for example. How does this affect security of supply? All heavy maintenance of machinery is done around the world where the cheapest is obtained. If Finland were to face a crisis like the corona, in which we should be able to cope on our own, the machines would quickly remain in the country, when we no longer have enough knowledge to handle heavy machinery. Although Finnair, as a listed company, makes independent decisions, as a state owner, it is necessary to express its will and require more responsible action as conditions for obtaining support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u190	Mr President! Representative Eestilä was looking for further clarifications in his own speech, and I will now clarify: Finland cannot enter into a purchase service agreement directly with Finnair, as proposed by the Coalition Party in this effort. It just can't. The EU has not amended the state aid legislation in this respect. If such a purchase service contract were to begin to be awarded — starting to impose those public service obligations on different routes — it would then be open to tender. In this case, this word of yours, ‘if necessary’is actually open to multinational low-cost airlines, and I wonder why you are not then ready Mr Zyskowicz raised the issue in his own speech and suggested that the centre could take the slogan ‘Corporate — Hardsome’ in the next elections. Thank you for the confession, and we are. The Coalition Party is about to get caught up in it. But here's what we're gonna do if we start showing our friends the slogans, then you could have a "Column-Column."
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u193	Mr President! In my previous speech, when I only took a position on this capitalisation of Finnair, I will now go a little further than this amending budget. First of all, this is a big issue — and I am sure that in practice it is bigger for Finns than this interesting and valuable air transport debate in itself — that this amending budget now includes this so-called restaurant support and support for restaurant entrepreneurs. I would like to thank the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Finance, particularly the moderate and congregating members of the government parties, but also the opposition there, for having decided to increase this amount of restaurant support, which is now 171 million when the proposal was originally 123 million, that is to say, some increase in this amount of restaurant support. President! I would now like to say about this EU policy, which has been ignored here, not only in terms of flying, but also in terms of these corona support mechanisms, the EU's financial support has been ignored, and now that we have these mechanisms: this SURE, this unemployment risk mechanism, and there are solutions for the ESM. I would now like to emphasise that the centre line, and also the government's line, is that under no circumstances must these support mechanisms be such as to transform the European Union into some sort of income-sharing union. It is absolutely essential that each Member State, through its own parliament and its own government, manages its own budget. No debt union, common bonds are acceptable, and the most important thing, of course, President, is that although the ESM has councils and whatever dioceses there are, this Parliament's Chamber must always be the one who exercises budgetary authority in Finland in accordance with our constitution. But then, President, now that this debate on the regional fields is under way, I must say that I hope that the coalition with which I have worked together in local politics in my entire political career will go away from such a trumpet and now get a little bit less of that gallop and bubbling. In particular, the representatives of Autto and Eestilä and Heinonen, whom I highly appreciate, are going to be rather overdoing their own speeches. It is only that speech by Mr Eestilä who talks about spinning in front of the EU that makes me wonder. It seems to me that the Coalition Party has always said that the EU is some kind of value choice for you and that it is an absolute value to make Europe any kind of federalist state.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u196	Mr President! I spoke earlier about these stability mechanisms and others, and I took note of the speeches made by representatives Hoskone and Kurvine. I hope things are really treated with this mentality, but that remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u204	Mr President! Thank you all very much, very interesting speeches have been made here. What makes me happy in these speeches is that we are all fighting together against a state company for what it is allowed to do and what it is not. These state and municipal companies tend to have such a similar approach in that when they start to go reasonably well, they begin to appeal to the Companies Act, that they must act in accordance with the Companies Act, and they forget about its host. So the master doesn't give a shit about singing, the man takes over and does what he wants.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u205	Mr President! At the same time as we have succeeded well in terms of corona infection, spread and treatment, we have unfortunately found ourselves in a situation in which we are in the midst of serious economic and employment problems. We have now moved to a stage in which, however, we are looking further ahead. This is possible because the levels of infection have decreased and the capacity of health care is at a good level. In the health care districts, urgent treatments and measures have started to be dismantled, thus facilitating the needs and health of citizens and patients, as well as the future challenges of social and health services. However, Korona is still present among us. It is assumed that worldwide relief will not come until the corona is vaccinated. For this reason, it is important that we increase the Finnish Academy's concession to research into vaccine and drug development, as well as to research into the work and safety and impact of medicines. In addition, additional funding will be allocated to the mobile application developed in the context of the corona epidemic, which aims to improve the corona operating process ‘test, track, isolate’. The mobile application helps to reach a wider number of exposed people who have been unwittingly in the vicinity of the affected person. With the help of the mobile, they are given operating instructions on how to act and possibly seek tests and treatments. This is already done and developed in the medical districts of Vaasa and South Karelia. These are very important because, when we succeed in the vaccine and in the mobile system, they increase the public's sense of security and enable society and the world to open up again more quickly. Mr President! I must also say a few words about Finnair and aircraft. We do not have a Finnair-owned airport in South Karelia, but it is owned by the city and our region, and that is why we consider this airport connection to be important from the point of view of our vitality, employment and tourism. This same thing also applies to other airport connections that Finnair is now closing down. That is why I find it extremely important that our committee’s report states that it ‘considers it important that,as a result of the epidemic, air links temporarily closed will be returned when air travel begins’. Air connections are very important for business, tourism and employment. And I'm sure this is the will of all of us. Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u206	Mr President! Mr Kurvinen is quite right that we must, after all, act in such a way as to deal with the situation of representatives of opposition and government parties, that we will continue to be able to resolve difficult issues together, because they will continue to exist. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy set a good example of how this support for restaurants, as required by the Constitutional Committee, will be managed together with the government parties and the opposition. You know, sometimes these things can be high-flying, and I have to say, just now, as a veterinarian, I fell from them exactly. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u209	Mr President! Indeed, this corona epidemic is not only a matter of health policy, economic policy and social policy, but also an ethical issue. When it comes to the treatment of the corona epidemic, it must be said that it has gone very well, because we have managed to reduce and even suppress these cases in some areas. We must continue to tailor ourselves so that we have the opportunity to work safely, to move safely, to meet other people safely. That's the rule of law. I call for tailoring — that is, testing, tracing, but also tailoring, so that some areas or sectors are sometimes caught, even within sectors, if necessary. However, it must be recognised that when there is a disease, medicine and medicines may be a little difficult sometimes from the point of view of side effects. And yes, this interest rate will have a very long shadow in terms of economic policy, but also, for example, in terms of compensation for the maintenance debt. In other words, many of these very important public health issues and people’s ills are not being dealt with. But what I am particularly afraid of is that something is happening in the shade and shade of the corona that we would not normally want to do, just like in the norm. I certainly would not want to see a new normal situation in which, in the shadow of the corona and under the guise of fundamental rights, basic services and parliamentaryism are being driven down, and now it is all in sight. But then also from this air traffic. Now, once again, I can smell these regional and regional airports being demolished. And this is why I fight for this matter: It is not because we have just come up with the idea of having these provincial stations. In 2014, when I was Minister of Transport, I was brought to the table with a paper that had been ticked on to a few airports, and no matter how long they were the same. The Vice-President was then the Minister of Finance and this was discussed and I was very pleased that we had a common understanding that those burdens were not being put on. Now I can smell here that this is the first step, and that is why the coalition is fighting for this — and here many, including representatives of the Left Alliance, are nodding that this can happen if we do not stay awake. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u211	Mr President! As far as the white cheek geese are concerned, we have to get them out. On this point, I fully agree with Mr Eestilä — off with the white cheek geese and as soon as possible,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u220	Mr President! Air transport is a common regulation that is binding on the Member States as such. There are Articles 16 and 17, look there. And if we're wrong, make some other transaction as long as these airports are secured. Mr Risiko had an excellent constructive speech: it is not an end in itself that if you keep the nut open, then the EU will authorise you to use the tool. We use such a tool that the nut is opened and we reach that goal, that is, flights in the province will remain and this entire network of our airports will remain. That is the most important goal of all. In fact, I would say that there is no need for controversy here. We need to set goals. It is one thing and it is a question of how to achieve that goal, it must have political will. In each of my own speeches, I have said that at least I have that will. Mr Vehviläinen, thank you for your constructive contribution. We have one common concern and a common goal. I know that in North Karelia — or I may be wrong here too, of course — that airport needs investment and improvements. Am I right or am I wrong? My impression is that it does. If this happens not to invest in that airport, it is, in a way, the first step of the disassembly. We must now also ensure, as Mr Risikko said, that these conditions for operating airports are safeguarded and that they are required and monitored to ensure that the necessary investments are made, so that after six years it will not be said that, when this investment costs so much, we will have to stop this airport.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u221	Mr President! I haven't served a day as Minister of Transport, but I appreciate your role.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u223	President! I would like to add that we here are now arguing about what method we are now to consider what state of our will is in what we are seeking. And what we want is for them to survive — business, research, tourism and so on — and then for us to be able to prevent them from being driven down once and for all, because we need them. We have a very strange conversation here. When it came to Business Finland and had to get subsidies for companies and it went a little like the way it went, as you remember, it was said here that ‘there were no other instruments’. When there were no other instruments, business subsidies were given to Business Finland — when there were no other instruments. Hello, that is to say, instruments are made during the exceptional period! After all, an iron surgeon does not use a chain saw to cut the fleece, if it hurts the ligature there, but he acquires another tool to get a proper ironing operation done. So now listen a little bit to that customization also for those tools.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u224	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Risikko on these subsidies from Business Finland — which the assembly wanted far more than the government was then proposing, then Parliament fell for it, and that went wrong — but I also fully agree with Mr Risiko that this debate is very strange, because no one in this Chamber has been driving down these provincial areas or their traffic. It is now a matter of the coalition wanting them to fly empty with tax money.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u229	Mr President! I appreciate the good work that the Committee on Finance does in principle, and indeed I understood from the speeches made by several members of the committee that there has been an accurate analysis of the term: whether they are talking about watching when demand for flights is growing or when air transport is beginning to recover. And the vote is based on the fact that we have to be active in getting it started so that we have those connections. Air transport is a very special one, in a certain way, of course, almost a luxury product, let me put it this way, compared to these alternatives, which have been offered here, a bus and a train,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u234	Mr President! That is where I tried to find out about this silent agreement that Honkonen, the representative of downtown, raised, which I understand has been agreed between Prime Minister Sanna Marin's Board of Directors and Finnair. In other words, he states in Central Finland that flights can continue to be secured by a silent agreement. I tried to get an answer from the group president in the centre, Mr Kurvisen. He did not want to answer this so that I would now ask the Greens, the Greens' representative, Mr Harjante: when you Greens are champions of transparency and transparency, [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u237	Mr President! I am not quite as optimistic as Mr Heinonen, that ‘in the end of the day’, since I am looking at that list of speakers, so that five new speeches can be made. [Laughter] Of course, this debate has now been in chainsaws and eye surgery and white cheek geese, but if we focus now on this flying, I think this has been a very good conversation. In my previous speech, I said that when there are loss-making lines, flights, there are two ways to do this. It can be managed through its company, whether it is a ‘silent contract’ or something else, but it is not denied at a time of difficulty when it is in a competitive market and a stock exchange company. It's difficult, but it's not impossible for some operational unit to... Just as we have some other big companies that have several units, and one of them can make a loss and someone can make a profit, but then the company as a whole is profitable and they cancel each other out. But in fact, in my opinion, a better model would be in this kind of situation that what this is now being talked about, i.e. a purchase service. As I said earlier in my speech, it is not a new issue, but it is a difficult one. FinnHEMS, our medical helicopter company, is a purchasing company. It has two operators: the northern operator who handles the three fields in the north, and the southern operator who manages the three fields in the south. That competition lasted a year and a half. It was very demanding. Well, it was about tens of millions, in fact, in the nine-year period of EUR 200 million. The city of Pori currently runs air transport between Helsinki and Pori as a purchasing service.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u240	Mr. Speaker! I thought that I would no longer be taking part in this discussion, but when there were so many pennies here, I decided to answer the questions. However, let me say at the outset, since there has been talk of flying, that we are quite in agreement in the centre about these white-cheese geese, that the problem must be addressed — when they have flown here at the moment. Representative Heinonen would like — while our society is based on Evangelical Lutheran culture — to quote the Big Book that I am the guardian of my brother and here to interpret the speeches of Vice-President Honkonen of the Centre. But I'd have the courage to think now, even though I'm not my brother's keeper,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u245	Mr President! I think that Mr Risikko made a very good point about this situation, where we are at a time when this air transport has to be stopped, because there is also experience of it, how it is to be abolished. But if you go through a purchase service contract to manage air transport, as is currently done in the Pori area, it is expensive for municipalities and expensive for the provinces. And we have such experience with this very decision on support for the airport of Varkaus, that as long as the theft and the state supported it together, the job played, but that subsidy paid by the city grew year by year to year to a greater and greater level, and it was in a way like a price tag to it: when you know that subsidies are available, prices kept going up. It became even more expensive until the backbone of the theft could not bear it, and when the city’s support ran out, the government’s support also went away, and the field was driven down, the flights ran out, and the equipment on the field has already been sold out from there. I see this as a situation in which we now have to take care of these provincial areas by common decision of the Parliament, so that they are preserved, but we also have to accept that if there are no passengers there, they will be able to stand still for a while, just a little while longer. But as soon as air traffic starts to recover and we industry and exports need these tourist jobs and air connections to that airport at Helsinki Airport, then it has to go ahead and Parliament has to take care of it together so that it will definitely work. We need these, our business in the provinces needs these air connections, and they need to be managed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u246	Mr President! Mr Heinonen has rightly stated the role of the Green Party as such a champion of transparency. It's great, and it's always great if someone else goes to it and supports it. I myself do not understand the comment made by Mr Honkonen in an interview. Frankly, I have neither the silent knowledge nor the loud knowledge of what he meant by it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u249	Mr President! I understand that the purchase service process goes some way that Traficom is the competent authority here, i.e. to carry out the practical implementation if only the LVM decides and Parliament gives the money to it. Please tell me if this process went wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u252	Mr President! This seems to be the case now that there are indeed three different proposals here, all of which relate to this air transport, that the centre and the left seem to be clinging to this word of purchasing service and, in a way, this is being constantly raised. However, I would like to remind you that there is a proposal for a statement 12 which does not mention the purchase service. Why can’t the city centre support this when it says here that ‘the government has to take care of the strengthening of the economicpower of the regions by returning passenger transport from the airport of Helsinki to all the airports where the air traffic has started a crisis’? And this kind of thing is also found in Christian Democrats. There is no mention of a purchase service or any other such service, [Jussi Saramo’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u254	Then the chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u255	Thank you, Mr President! I thought that when I started the debate we could stop by asking for the floor. If so, it has been required that Finnair's aircraft be flown and the geese be dropped again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u261	Mr President! There seems to be a very broad common will here to find a solution to ensure regional flights. We in the meeting are not in politics to look for problems but to find solutions to them. And, Mr President, I would like to suggest that, if Parliament's Rules of Procedure allow it to do so — and, if I have understood correctly, in exceptional circumstances, such a thing could be considered in a climate of broad consensus — that, for example, the chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen and the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, Mr Kiviranta, together with the opposition parties, could prepare a joint effort in the spirit that Parliament requires that the government secures the shifts of regional airports also during the corona crisis. I understand that there is a strong common will for this. We call on the assembly to find an agreement, rather than an unnecessary confrontation, that flights can be secured to regional airports even during this serious corona crisis. I would suggest that Parliament should take a short break in this plenary session and look for such a joint government-binding and demanding effort to ensure that regional flights are secured.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u262	Mr President! Just briefly to Mr Koskinen, it was for this very reason that Finavia felt that it was only Helsinki, which is capable of getting along, and the others then go to the negatives. The decision was made then, it was made at the political level that this would happen, but of course we started to think about the whole: what does it mean, for example, train traffic, what does it mean, for example, that you can already book your luggage in a taxi and it goes smoothly and look at the whole. These are the plans that are ready for you there. Well, there's another point I want to make here: It has now been a good thing in this debate that the importance of these regional airports has been raised, and I think that is already one of the reasons why this debate was worth having, and I myself, as a representative of the province, am very pleased about it. After all, we had to stop the Seinäjoki for these reasons. We had a good airport — well, we have the good side that we have the fastest trains now, so that we no longer supported it. But, for example, Kokkola and Pietarsaari are so far away that it simply does not succeed on trains, and there is a lot of that business life there. Let me add that there is also a reference point, Sweden. Sweden has not subdued these provincial fields. It keeps the small fields there for these very reasons what we have been talking about. And I say again what I see here: there is a danger that something will happen under the guise of the corona, that the child will go with the bath water, and here it can go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u263	With regard to Mr Heinonen's proposal, the procedure for this dossier has been decided at the beginning of this plenary session and the proposal made during the debate has focused on the same subject which has been the subject of a statement in the committee's work, so I do not take it into account. Voting time in this sitting will take place after a recess. The sitting and proceedings shall be adjourned and the session resumed at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-25-ps-78.u264	The sitting adjourned at 6:55 p.m. and the second item in the order of business will now be resumed. The draft amending budget will now be examined in detail. I would ask for amendments. It is possible to make all the proposals and support relating to the same objection at one time. - Here you go.
