ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u2	Congressman Mari Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u3	Mr President! We look forward with horror to the solution that the Member States of the EU can come to from the Commission's proposal on burden sharing. In the new package, Member States should choose either to receive migrants or to pay money for them to another country. A Member State would receive ten grand in a motion to receive an immigrant. Are you going to support the Commission's proposal to move people against money? And secondly, such an amount is only enough for a few months to stay. The position of the Finns Party is clear: the EU's external borders must be closed to illegal immigration, and such attraction factors, such as burden sharing, should not be accepted. How do you feel about the Commission's proposal, Mr President?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u4	Mr President! Thank you for the question. Indeed, the Commission has finally submitted the proposal that has been awaited for years. After all, Finland is constructive in the EU's joint debate, and wants to find common solutions. At the heart of this proposal is what happens within the European Union, how responsibility is shared so that more and more Member States are involved. At the same time, the performance is based on two other blocks. One of the blocks is how to build a stronger EU external border control in the future, and of this I said here last week that Frontex resources are being increased, a permanent border force is being built. What is also central to this is what is happening outside the EU’s borders, which means that the EU’s external relations are part of this whole. Finland is a constructive EU debater and is looking for common solutions at EU level together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u5	Thank you. — Now I ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u6	Mr President! Minister Ohio refers here to external border control, but in February, when Greece monitored its external borders and closed the borders, you told us here in Finland that the borders should be opened up and that Greece acted incorrectly. Do you now have elements in the legislative package on large-scale immigration that will, if necessary, close the Finnish external border?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u7	Mr President! First of all, the Finnish Government is committed to updating the large-scale action programme against entry. That work is going on and will be completed here in the next few months. In addition, projects are coming into the Government’s legislative plan to strengthen the cooperation between different authorities in this country in risk situations where large-scale entry at the Finnish borders would be possible. So the government keeps doing these things. Long time ago, resources have also been increased for the Border Guard, more than for a long time. This is a very positive development, and there has also been good feedback from various parts of Finland that it is important that the government intervenes in this issue as well. Then, of course, under international agreements, Finland has an obligation to accept asylum seekers' applications and to see who is entitled to asylum and who is not. One of the elements of this package is the return policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u8	Mr President! The number of poorly integrated foreigners will grow steadily, especially in the capital region. This demographic development damages the economy of the state and municipalities, exacerbates the housing situation, increases crime and insecurity, and speeds up the segregation of residential areas and schools. These are measurable cold facts. Immigration, mainly from Africa and the Middle East, is unambiguously harmful and is the more damaging it is. This applies not only to Finland, but to all Western European countries. In recent years, these facts have increasingly been awakened in many countries. I would like to mention Austria, Denmark and, more recently, even Sweden. The question is: will these facts also be raised in the Finnish Government or will sleepwalking continue?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u9	Mr President! Reports from the Ministry of the Interior have for years reported the greatest threat to Finland’s internal security. It is exclusion, the exclusion of people, the lack of participation, the fact that they do not feel in the right place in this society, do not feel that they have a role to play in this society. This is a job we're going to continue with right now. We are bringing a report on internal security to Parliament early in the year, which is precisely about how more and more people in this society would be involved instead of risking, for example, drifting into a criminal path. We already know that at present the victims of accidents, on the one hand, the perpetrators of crime, the victims of crime, who, for example, have a weaker socio-economic status than others. This is where the government takes many measures to prevent exclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u10	Mr President! The Government Programme states that Finland will continue to cooperate in the field of asylum and refugee policy in the Nordic countries, promoting coherent policies and practices. For years Denmark has had a reasonable asylum and refugee policy in this area, including the ghettoisation of housing and so on. It was launched by the central right-wing government and continued by the demarcation government: a strict asylum policy. Is the Finnish Government going to take a uniform line specifically from Denmark?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u11	Mr President! I think it is appropriate at this point to review the facts relating to immigration policy. In the past ten years, there have never been as few asylum seekers in Finland as there have been this year. When the Finns have been in the government, there have been many more asylum seekers, of course,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u13	Mr President! Focusing aid on controlled refugee camps can help women and children in real need much more effectively than here in the country with the highest cost of living in the euro area, still in debt, Finland suffering from mass unemployment. How can we pay? How can we pay? At present, about 30% of immigrants receive income support, over 50% in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. Where's the money coming from? I don't know. Where's the money coming from? To whom does the government consider the Finnish welfare society and social security funded by Finns to be properly intended: Finns or some others?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u14	Mr President! First of all, I would like to take up that interlude which I heard from Mr Halla-aho after Mr Ohio's reply. You said that the Minister's reply was childish. I find it disconcerting that Minister Ohio was telling facts — for example, the fact that in these times there have been record numbers of asylum seekers in Finland. And so it is that the welfare society Through its development cooperation, Finland supports precisely what is better in this world, to which the representative has now referred with his question. In fact, you were, as it were, supporting the line that root causes and countries of origin, such situations, must also be helped. It is therefore disconcerting that you Finns have been repeatedly reducing development aid and development funds when it is precisely those measures that help with the problems that cause people to flee their countries and move.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u15	Mr President! In this Commission proposal there is one thing that is worrying. It is that when you come to the external border and if you have ties to a country, you come to Greece and you have ties to Finland, that's how you get here to Finland, if you have a lot of Iraqis, Somalis, a strong community, for example. The problem is only if this person who comes here has no conditions for asylum. What happens then? He'll get a negative decision. What happens then? But he will not be able to return to that country of origin. He's staying here. He is at his worst the victim of crime, the victim of human trafficking, or the perpetrator of the crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u18	Mr President! The Commission's proposal does indeed have two parts in this solidarity mechanism, one of which is that Member States decide to receive asylum seekers as internal transfers or that Member States can assist in this cooperation on return. And, as the representative well states, no Member State can say that cooperation in return between third countries would work very well, because these countries do not receive their own citizens. That is why it is absolutely essential to take all the steps to prevent, for example, paperlessness in this society, so that more and more people can be included in this society, that no one is left on the margins.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u19	Mr President! A dangerous point in the Commission's proposal is that it should be possible to get directly from the external border to the country of destination it wants if the applicant is already connected to the country. For example, for historical reasons, there are many Iraqis and Somalis in Finland, and this could lead to people connected to them seeking Greece, where they would be transferred to Finland on the basis of connections, even if they were not subjected to any personal persecution. In Finland, they would have a negative decision, but in practice they are not usually returned to these countries. So I ask Minister Ohio: what is the government's position on the new solidarity expressed by the Commission?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u20	Mr President! The proposal was received a week ago and contains several hundred pages of different, different proposals, and that package is currently being reviewed. The government will adopt a position on it in the coming weeks. The government has already had a good debate in the Committee of Ministers on this early summer on the basis of the information we had received from the Commission at the time, and the great parliamentary committee has also been informed of this debate. With these positions I am now going to the forthcoming meeting of the Home Affairs Ministers, but the government will be the final position on the package in the coming weeks and months. There is an international right to seek asylum. It is a right to which Finland has committed itself in international agreements. This government does not intend to break away from international agreements and insist that the right to asylum should be fulfilled in such a way that each time it is individually examined whether a person is entitled to asylum or not. If not, then of course the return is the other side of this asylum process.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u21	Mr President! For refugees, it would be best to develop a quota refugee system, both for the European Union and for Finland, in which the most vulnerable refugees can be selected directly from refugee camps. This whole asylum system is based both on uncontrolled border crossings in the present and in this new Commission proposal, and often through smuggling of human beings. Should the government not actively support a system of humanitarian immigration in both the EU and here in Finland? This would be the best solution for both these needers and then society, as it were.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u22	Mr President! Thank you to the representative for the question that I remember answering earlier. It is very important that the representative raise this legal route to the European Union, the quota refugee system. The Finnish Government is also committed to the fact that if the number of asylum seekers falls, the quota refugee system can be viewed upwards. And now the figure for next year will be 1,050 people, or 200 people more than before, because Finland wants to assume international responsibility. And here cooperation with the UN refugee organisation is very effective. These people are very well integrated into the municipalities. In fact, many municipalities have even asked us when more people will come. There are many municipalities in which these people have had a good job and study places and learned a language. Legal routes have also been recorded in the Government Programme. So, as I mentioned earlier, this is one of the legitimate routes. The Commission's own proposal is also based on the fact that, on the one hand, there are legal routes and there are stronger border controls. All of this must be combined and taken up by international responsibility,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u23	Mr President! As has been shown here, the proposal contains a number of important points, first and foremost as regards improving the efficiency of returns. But there is also a need for concrete means. Then there is also the fact that prolonged asylum procedures are speeded up and the external borders are better taken care of. But there are also some difficult points in the proposal that Finland should not accept, for example, as regards the Commission's powers, that the Commission itself could invest immigrants in Europe through its own decisions. Of course, these are unacceptable. But it is important to take into account now that the whole of the European Union is involved in a joint effort and that we do not have wingers in this system. I would like to ask the minister responsible: do you believe in this passing, and in what way will Finland contribute to the fact that everyone is involved in these efforts?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u24	Mr President! The Commission is well aware, and Commissioner Johansson, who has presented the package, is well aware that in this whole area we need to look for a number of different sources of income that bind the Member States together. During the Finnish Presidency, we worked hard to get the Member States even to discuss this issue at the same table, to understand that this is a shared responsibility — not a burden sharing, as some might use such a term, but a sharing of responsibilities. It is a question of how Member States that are at the EU's external borders, such as Finland, will also be supported if we are faced with certain new kinds of threats or risks. I very much hope that Finland will have a constructive debate on that direction towards the EU at all, and I believe that more and more Member States will understand that no Member State will solve these issues alone, and that is why we are now going to go for that solution together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u25	Mr President! About a week has now been seasoned with this Commission proposal. First of all, it is a good thing that the EU is trying to have a common immigration policy. I'm sure no one wants the events in 2015 to happen again. It is not in the interests of these people, nor of any European state. Secondly, I must say that this proposal is a step forward from the 2016 proposal. This is perhaps a little more realistic: no exiles, but, of course, all countries must be involved in the solution we find. The good thing about this is that the process is being speeded up, both in terms of recordings, refunds, cooperation on return, and in terms of the rapid handling of manifestly unfounded applications at the external borders. Then there is this intervention of root causes. How much pressure comes into Europe depends very much on the conditions in the countries, in the first countries to which people have fled. We need to strengthen the circumstances there. But then what is at stake here is whether or not this Dublin procedure is in any way in the first place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u26	Mr President! As was also mentioned here earlier on the question of whether the current Dublin system is working properly, the Commission has considered that it is not working and therefore proposes this new solidarity mechanism, which is precisely based on the fact that, on the one hand, internal transfers or, on the other, assistance in these returns. In other words, the Dublin system, in its form, would be decoupled. As I said, the package is huge and the government has not yet had a debate on it together in the Committee of Ministers, but we will return to it. In line with the Government Programme and in line with the previous positions that Finland has taken together, it is important for Finland to respect fundamental and human rights in these asylum processes while at the same time ensuring that external border control is ensured, and, as I said, the resources of the Border Guard have also been strongly increased on the Finnish side, but in fact more widely at European Union level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u27	Mr Turtiainen has also asked a question on this subject. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u28	Mr President! Last week, the European Commission published a Communication on the reform of the EU's immigration and asylum policy. It emphasises strong solidarity with the whole of the European Union, in this way: ‘injecting asylum seekers to a certain number of States or to pay for them’. This is the first time that the debate will take place in the Member States next week at the meeting of the Council of Home Affairs Ministers. Minister of the Interior, have you thought about it yet? You are not simply transferring our decision-making powers to the European Union on this issue too, are you?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u29	Mr President! Thank you for the question! As I mentioned earlier, Finland is also an external border state: we have a hugely long EU common external border. That is why it is in Finland's interest that we find a common European solution in which, under no circumstances, we are left alone, that people are protected and, at the same time, that borders are safeguarded. This is also reflected in the government's common position on the basis of the debate already held in June, and I will present this in the large committee before the meeting of the Ministers of the Interior. The government itself has not yet taken a position on this package itself, and there will be an initial general debate at the Home Affairs Ministers' meeting on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u30	Mr President! There are hundreds of people in Finland, if not thousands of illegal residents, who have applied here for asylum, but it has been found that they do not need international protection. They should return to the country of origin, but they refuse to go there and the country of origin, such as Iraq or Somalia, refuses to accept the so-called forced return. Well, there are even more of these people in Europe, and now the Commission is proposing that those countries, such as Hungary and Poland, who are not involved in this responsibility, should assist in this return. I must admit that I do not understand how Hungary or Poland would achieve this return better than the countries to which these people have come. The solution lies in the fact that the Union together, for example in trade policy, in development policy, would impose conditions which would force these countries of origin to accept their own citizens, as international law also requires. What is the government's position?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u31	Mr President! I'm going back to that triangulation. This package, which the Commission has presented, is divided into three parts, and one part is the EU's external relations. In other words, it is understood that immigration policy is also linked to what is happening outside the borders of the European Union, and we are by no means an island or isolated from the rest of the world. That is why, for example, our Commissioner is constantly working on external relations, even if between African countries on the whole route. During its Presidency of the European Union, Finland raised the question of how of route thinking, i.e. a comprehensive review of the whole journey that people may possibly travel in seeking refuge in a situation where they have had to leave their own home behind. Of course, the key to this is at the same time how returns work, as well as what happens to those people who are in this society but who are not being returned. This fight against paperlessness is a common objective set out in the Government Programme and I am about to receive proposals from officials on how to tackle this phenomenon even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u34	Mr President! We have tried to ask here about these costs of immigration, but we have not received an answer to them. For years the Finns have been talking to the taxpayer about costly immigration. Slowly but surely, many people are beginning to understand that a minus sign of euro will not just be a plus mark, no matter how much money they postpone for integration or multiculturalism. Such immigration does not increase employment, does not facilitate the economic dependency ratio, does not improve the sustainability gap but exacerbates them. Even SAK said a few weeks ago that immigration should not burden the state's social security system or increase public spending. I would like to ask Minister Saariko: when will your government take into account the unambiguous numbers, and when will you start to pursue an immigration policy that is beneficial to public finances and society?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u35	Mr President! First of all, after this question and throughout the debate on this subject, I would like to say that from time to time we are in the mood for this debate that immigration is being referred to as a monolith, and that is why it seems necessary once again to say out loud that there are so many kinds of immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u40	I will give one last floor to this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u41	Mr President! The government's red-green ideology doesn't even save money in the middle of the interest rate. In addition to supporting illegal immigration and increasing development aid, you are raising the refugee quota to 1050 in this situation. In a harsh way, Finns will have to pay for this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u44	Mr President! The Government Programme clearly defines the number of asylum seekers... [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u47	Next question, Congressman Helpto. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u48	Mr President! There are 20,000 Finns from the event industry. Half of them have been laid off this year. The tourism and restaurant sector provides a livelihood for over 100,000 homes. Now tens of thousands of workers have been laid off, a large proportion have been left without work. The rash speeches and confusing information by ministers have further deepened the crisis in restaurants, tourism companies and event actors. Failure to communicate has resulted in a large number of cancellations of events and trips. Safeguarding health is the most important thing, but we must also be able to live during the pandemic. Around Finland, there is now great concern about the fate of jobs and companies. Mr President! What is the government going to do to save these thousands of companies and tens of thousands of jobs in the tourism and restaurant sector and in the event sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u49	Mr President! In this respect, our concern with the opposition must be shared. I believe that we all share the pain in this Chamber in the picture of the situation that, even now, when there is a worsening situation in our country with regard to the global epidemic, the pandemic, and, at the same time, we are hearing more and more worrying news of the plight of many entrepreneurs, the political decision-maker must, at all times, weigh between all these scales. And I believe that this hall, and all of it, always chooses the values of the health and spirit of Finns and the protection of life. At the same time, so that we can, as if we could, use the term, exhale and help what we can — not everything can be saved in these times — the government has taken important decisions to support entrepreneurs in various sectors, including the restaurant sector, with a new decision this week, so that this crisis can be resolved even more or less. Mr. Autto, your party has been very critical of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u50	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u51	Mr President! People's need for tourism is real. The season of winter is melting in the hands. People who earn their living from tourism have suggested that the government should supplement its policy decision on tourism as follows: if the journey takes more than 72 hours, the second negative corona test on arrival in Finland will allow 100 hours of stay without quarantine. According to the industry, the registration would enable charter and group trips to be carried out with a high degree of security. It is a small but very important addition to tourism for those who get their bread. Otherwise, Finland's export revenue for tourism will not be fully received in this winter as well as at its worst in the coming years. Mr President! I ask the government: is this small but crucial addition to your decision on the principle of tourism, as mentioned above? Are you prepared to save jobs in tourism?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u52	Mr President! The responsible ministers, on the one hand, with regard to business and on the other with regard to basic services, can complement this whole, but I would like to start by saying, Mr Autto, in your first speech, that you have highlighted the importance of clear communication, and I fully agree with you on this. We are in a very different phase in this regard than last spring, and it is of course a great success that we are not, for the time being and hopefully, not in the circumstances of the Emergency Act, in which decisions were strongly concentrated on the Government. Now the decision on practical solutions to protect human health and life is strongly taken by regional authorities. This is the big message and spirit of the Act on communicable diseases, whatever it is, practically all the restrictions on everyday activities that the disease may have to do. As far as tourism is concerned, the government has made decisions in this regard and has proposed solutions to strengthen this. Global situation
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u53	Mr President! I am afraid that in such a matter of principle, the government cannot hide behind regional government authorities or health authorities alone when it comes to the principle of national policy on whether a double test can save the winter of Finnish tourism. In this respect, I hope that the government will take a position on this rather moderate and safe proposal by the representative of the car here. In terms of communication, I would also like to ask the Prime Minister's deputy, who is also very active in trying to understand what you have to say to them, for example over there. The numerous faces I see almost daily in the West Metro, who travel without masks, do not know whether they live in the HUS area or listen to the instructions of the City of Helsinki or the THL. How can this corona communication be made clear so that people can protect themselves? Now it's getting pretty confusing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u54	Mr President! A very important approach from the representative of the Assembly. First of all, I would like to say to this person: Use a face mask in all situations where you feel that you are very close to another person because of the crowd. Use a mask to protect yourself and, above all, to protect others. We are moving to a situation in Finland where we have now exceeded the limit of 10,000 corona cases. It is a significant and rather unfortunate borderline. My particular concern is at present with the capital region. We know that the disease situation here has spread particularly strongly in recent times. For the time being, everything is still well under control, but from now on, every single one of us will be impressed. That is why they have been repeated in Finland for a long time about hygiene, safety intervals and now also more intensely about facial masks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u55	Mr President! It is quite clear now that unfortunately the corona is with us for a long time. We do not know when the vaccine will be given and how it will work. That is why the key issue now is that we need to learn to live with the corona and that action is taken at the right level, with the right dimensions, because health needs to be taken care of, but at the same time every restriction needs to be at the right level. If we do unambiguously, as we do now, too unambiguously, it will cause huge damage to jobs, to businesses, even in areas where the disease situation is better. I would now very much like the government to make every effort to take seriously all the proposals, such as the proposal made by Mr Automobile, to which you have not yet responded, with all the possibilities of making flexible arrangements in terms of safety and health. This would be extremely important in order to save jobs and greater damage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u56	Mr President! First of all, this situation of tourism in Lapland. The Government recognizes these concerns, the Government wants to hear about the actors in the region, the Government also wants to take care of all residents of Lapland and their health. I shall try to describe this balance in my first speech on this issue. When it comes to the protection of life and health and the fact that the disease continues for a long time and its end date is not in sight for vaccines, as Mr Orpo said, we need solutions that can also keep the business alive. The situation is worrying, and that is why the government's efforts are now seeking to balance, as we saw, for example, from this week's restaurant decision. In the spring, the overall lockout of the restaurant's interiors was reached, and now the solution is strongly based on a regional basis, placing emphasis on decisions where the real risk of agitation in the disease is serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u57	The movement has now also put a question to this issue. Congressman Harkimo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u58	Mr President! Good government! If there has been a clear strategy for the corona, it will certainly not work when it comes to the future of the event, tourism and restaurant entrepreneur. In the light of these decisions, you feel that you are arrogant about these entrepreneurs and their employees. They live in constant distress, and the future is obscure. One week you can travel to Sweden, the next week you can't. One week the restaurants are allowed to be open normally, then the Kiuru sign comes, and no one knows when the restaurants are allowed to be open. Entrepreneurs are forced to plan their activities in the longer term, and employees need to know if they have a job next week. We need to put an end to this kind of tempting and squirming. You're gonna have to spend months with Korona. Good government, who is in charge of the whole treatment of the corona, and when can we achieve the predictability that everyone needs?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u59	Mr President! Congressman Harkimo, you asked if the government had a strategy. Yes, an action plan has been published this autumn to implement recommendations and restrictions under the hybrid strategy after the first phase of the covid-19 epidemic. One of the main core elements of this strategy is testing, which is a guarantee that Finland can be kept as open as possible. Congressman Harkimo, you were worried that the restaurants were open somewhere and closed somewhere else. It is precisely part of this strategy that Finland should act regionally and protect entrepreneurship where the disease situation is still relatively good, and we would not make unnecessary national decisions. What you say about the external borders: Finland cannot help it how the disease situation in other European countries develops and what it means is that Finland's limit values are quite rightly strict, because we have considered the Finnish corona situation as good as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u60	Mr. Speaker! Since restricting the activities of the event sector and restricting the activities of the restaurant sector is a matter of restricting the legitimate business, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, when dealing with the restaurant sector, concluded that there was a need to compensate for the losses suffered by the restaurant industry in a reasonable manner. I would therefore like to ask two questions. Firstly, what kind of compensation are you now giving to the restaurant industry, as required by the Constitutional Committee? Question 2: In what interpretation of the law does the government base the interpretation of the Constitutional Committee not also apply to the limited field of events?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u61	Mr President! The questioner is right that in the spring, when this total blockade came, the Constitutional Committee intervened, and then, of course, it must be remembered that there were exceptional circumstances and a law of preparedness. We don't have it now. We're doing it according to the Act on Contagion. And the solution that now takes place with regard to restaurants is cut short. We then, through cost support, sought compensation for these losses. It will certainly not cover all, and then, of course, it must also be remembered that we will not compensate for the fall in turnover, we will compensate for the costs. The same problem is, of course, on the tourism side, and I can respond to Mr Auto when he presented this initiative by the tourism entrepreneurs in Lapland: Thank you for conveying the message. I'm sure it's good elements. And I would like it to be possible to take forward the possibility for the locals to make more of that decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u62	Mr President! As the coronas pointed out to us well, Finns are the kind of people that we want to do right and in accordance with regulations and guidelines. If we are at present going to the street or to the market in Forssa to ask people what restrictions, regulations and recommendations are currently in force, I am afraid that people will not be able to answer this question and I cannot blame them. This government's information on the corona has been impulsive and unclear, and has also changed its direction. Well, this is certainly necessary in the event of an epidemic situation, but the Chancellor of Justice, for example, has also given serious attention to the fact that recommendations and obligations are mixed up, and there have also been major blunders in the communications of the authorities, as well as in the various information and information sessions of the government. One question is this question of masks. Last spring, there was a message.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u63	Mr President! I welcome the fact that there is a constant debate with Parliament on how the various political groups could support the situation in our country. If this is not the time for the Finnish emergency call, when is it? This disease situation is going to be very much accelerated if, in this situation too, we are not in a position to work together to make priorities on how we should act effectively now, so that the corona does not spread so strongly throughout the country that it will become all our faults and until spring. In this respect, it is not worth putting the economy and health against each other — it does not drive forward; it is about taking specific measures, regional measures. There is also a recommendation for a mask: in certain areas the situation is not as bad as in other regions, and in this respect the approach has now been taken not only to make national guidelines but also to make regional guidelines.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u64	Mr President! There are 2,000 people in Lapland in the negotiation of a single group of companies, and if the situation gets even worse, it will be more than thousands of people. It is estimated that up to 8,000 people could be involved in negotiations in one province, in one sector, so this is, to the greatest extent, not only a regional issue but also an issue affecting the economy. However, when it comes to winter tourism in particular, when it comes to northern lights and Santa Claus tourism, it is a question of people staying in this country for just a while and being with its own company, and the only Finnish worker is certainly Santa Claus, who they will meet, how could it be possible, also with regard to regional restrictions, as the government has pointed out, that it would be possible to find some kind of regional possibility for this particular Lapland tourism, that the entire economic structure would not be destroyed in terms of tourism?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u65	Mr President! All in all, from this point of view: the opposition to the government is not the opposition; the opposition is not the government; our opponent is the corona. It all culminates in this question. We cannot talk about a national or regional issue; we talk about a global issue. No matter what we do at the moment, tourism does not necessarily return to what it was before. But I hope, just like the representative My corner said that we could take more regional consideration on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u70	Mr President! This concern of the event and tourism sector is entirely real, the continuing and spreading of the corona is a real problem. I come from that place, where not only this pandemic but also the paper mill is just under threat of closure, and in the same city, 200,000 festivals were missed this summer. The stories from all over Finland are therefore similar: the events, fairs, concerts and many other events have been cancelled. At the same time, people have become interested in nature tourism and living in rural areas. In order to get us out of this situation, we need a wide range of measures to support employment. Would it now be possible to include employment-supporting projects that would help both the tourism industry and this industry in this difficult situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u71	Mr President! This is an extremely difficult situation in such a way that challenges are constantly coming from different sectors, from different sectors. Let us take, for example, this event industry, which has been a lot in the debate — definitely a difficult whole, but going into one sector to make and tailor its own compensation, that is the challenge in a certain way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u74	Then I will give one last speaker to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u75	Mr President! It is necessary for the government to use all the means available to safeguard jobs in the midst of a pandemic situation, otherwise this will be too hard a ride for the event sector and the restaurant sector. In tourism, this at its worst results in Sweden and Norway being hijacked by international tour operators who have previously brought hundreds of thousands of their customers and their income to Finland. If the government lets the companies in the sector go bankrupt, it will no longer necessarily be revived by Finnish entrepreneurs after the pandemic. This would be a huge blow to the economy as a whole. Mr President! Domestic demand for restaurant and tourism services could be increased by lowering VAT and extending both the household allowance and the right to deduct corporate representation costs. Skiing holidays must be staggered, and the marketing efforts of domestic tourism must be supported. Are these means acceptable to the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u76	Mr President! Thank you for the solution-oriented approach to this very difficult and complex whole, which has also been opened up by this debate, both by the government and by the opposition. I believe that the whole range of instruments should be seriously considered and explored, which would be the quickest-acting measures to save both companies and, therefore, jobs. At the same time, although we are faced with a lot of concerns — a potential health crisis, if the disease is not contained, we have an economic crisis knocking at the door in relation to entrepreneurship and jobs — we are all now required to have extraordinary mental resilience and resilience when the end point is not in sight. Finland did well in the spring, and I hope the same for all of us in the months ahead.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u77	Next question, Congressman Päivi Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u78	Mr President! The ability of many family carers to cope is at the limit of the corona age. They haven't been able to keep free, and daytime activities have been on break. Many family carers are elderly themselves and are at risk. The renewed acceleration of the interest rate increases fear of the burden of autumn and winter, as many are already very tired. Intervals are important for carers during holidays or holidays, and these intervals have unfortunately now been cancelled, so the load of carers has increased. It has also been hard for parents of special children to have a corona time when they have had to take care of remote education at the same time as caring for the children as family carers. I now ask the minister concerned: how do you ensure that family care workers and otherwise those close to them do not become weary themselves and are left alone with their fatigue? How do you support them in the middle of a corona?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u79	Mr President! I think this is a very relevant question at this time, because at least in my own immediate circle, but certainly in the close circle of many other Finns, there are family carers, and I have followed the fatigue very closely myself. There is also a great deal of fear in the air here, and in that sense, Mr Räsänen, you are quite right that the situation in these numbers does indicate that, as the disease gets worse, the burden is even greater because of this particular reason that the fear is that this will spread to other groups as well. After all, at the moment, more than 70% of the infections have been among people under 50 years of age, but it is a matter of time before this changes. We have, for our part, wanted to say that the services must operate at municipal level, and in this respect these representatives were able to reach the tolerance stage at the end of the summer. The things that Räsänen wants should be taken so seriously in Finland that the level of service should not be compromised.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u80	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u81	Mr President! Unfortunately, the Minister's reply did not really give any concrete answers to these carers. Support measures are of primary importance for the survival and are expected, but the economy is also important. The allowance for informal care is small, it is taxable income, and in addition, quite a large proportion of family carers do not even receive any support because it is a discretionary benefit. My question to the Minister for Finance is this: does the government have any objective of fair taxation of carers?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u82	Mr President! I tried to ensure from Minister Kiuru, who certainly remembers the provisions of the Government Programme in this regard more precisely. There are currently no cases pending at the Ministry of Finance in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u83	Mr President! We Finns want to support family carers in their heavy and demanding task. There are many elderly and younger people in the care of the family, and we want to give them all the opportunity to remain carers for their loved ones. Mr President! In our last alternative budget, we Finns presented support for informal care as tax-free. So I ask you, government: are you going to make the allowance for informal care duty-free? Wouldn't this be a pretty good handout for these carers?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u84	Mr President! This is not the kind of plan the government has. I will answer these questions directly. I do not want to maintain expectations that have not been prepared, but Minister Kiuru still has something to add to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u85	Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to answer that question too. It is clear that this is one of the long-term prospects for development,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u88	We still have a number of questions, so let me say that this question has been closed and we move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u89	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u90	Mr President! In the imagination, Finland is a country where laws and treaties are observed. Over and over again, the image is shattered by the news of gross underpaid cases. The last news came from the West Metro site. For the purpose of profit, the common interest in these cases is the disregard for the provisions of collective agreements. The sufferers are people who, unwittingly and under duress, are subjected to gross exploitation. The government has paid attention to the criminalisation of underpaid employment and the right of appeal to the Ay movement. However, I ask the Minister for Labour: When will working conditions under the Labour Protection Act, wages under collective agreements and fair, healthy competition between companies be ensured in Finland? Would it be possible for the Board of Directors to include the Ordering Act on its working list as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u91	Mr President! The situation is that, under the law, every subscriber is responsible for explaining what the backgrounds of the contractor are before this agreement is concluded. In turn, this sanctioning system of the law was strengthened as of 2015. This law applies to all companies, both Finnish and foreign, when they use foreign labour. In principle, this law on subscriber liability works well, i.e. as legislation, but where there is a need for greater efficiency, it is the aspect of supervision. The occupational safety and health authorities shall monitor this activity and may also impose a non-compliance fee of EUR 20000 or, if increased, EUR 60000. But on this matter and on this question: in the budget debate, the Government approved 14 measures that have been prepared by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and which are now aimed at curbing the exploitation of foreign labour. These include:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u92	Next question, Mr Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u93	Ärade Herr talman, Mr President! In Finland, it is often difficult to understand how close the people of Åland are to Sweden in their everyday lives. The border with Sweden has been closed almost continuously since spring. Limiting the spread of interest is important, but border controls pose significantly more problems than benefits. A family member or close relative of many Ålanders lives in Sweden. For example, if a child of a divorced family spends a weekend with his parents in Sweden, he is required to be quarantined for 14 days and is unable to attend school. This is just one concrete example; there are many more that concern children, grandparents and those in remote relationships whose daily lives are affected by the blockade. In July and August, 24,000 people arrived in Åland from Sweden. Throughout this period there was only one corona case in Åland. Minister Ohio, is the government prepared to give the same opportunity to move between Åland and Sweden as it is between Tornio and Haparanta?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u94	Mr President, ärade talman! Tack för en bra fråga. Det är sant att Sverige är en valdigt bra och nära granne för Finland, och det harvarit valdigt svårt att gränsen nu har varit så där stängd.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u95	Next question, Mr Suomela.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u96	Mr President! The majority of companies strive for responsibility in their activities. However, there are a small number of companies that seek to gain unfair competitive advantage by exploiting foreign workers or by ruining nature, for example. In recent days, both the berry industry and the construction industry have become public in a questionable light. We must dare to say out loud that in these areas there is also exploitation of foreign workers in Finland. Trafficking in human beings, poor working conditions or semi-free work is never acceptable. There are numerous entries in the Government Programme to address these. Minister Hatainen briefly referred to a package aimed at addressing these issues. The phenomenon of exploitation of foreign workers is widespread and does not fall under the remit of just one ministry, but the Ministry of Employment and the Economy really plays a crucial role in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u97	Mr President! As I said, one part of this legislative package is now going on a consultation and the central point is that, when the most important sufferer is currently the victim of these exploitation situations, that is, when a worker from third countries comes here, for example in a restaurant or cleaning business or anywhere, and when he becomes the victim of abuse, if he sues or claims his rights, he usually goes away from the job, then he loses his right to work here and then goes back to his country of origin. This will now change with this legislation, which means that in such a situation the victim will have the right to apply for another job, he will be authorised to work and he will not lose his residence permit here in the country. Moreover, they are exploited by an employer who exploits workers, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u98	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 16/2020 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u102	Mr President! As usual, the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs has worked on specific and very important issues in the preparation of its report on the basis of my report. I would like to thank the chairman of the committee and the committee for the points raised in the presentation, which are still very topical today. It is important for the Chancellor of Justice and Parliament's Ombudsman, as senior law enforcement officers, to develop the division of duties and cooperation between the Supreme Legal Officers in accordance with the positions of the Constitutional Committee. In accordance with the committee's report, the division of tasks has been clarified by a working group set up by the Ministry of Justice, whose report was finalised in June 2019. The bill is now in the process of further preparation at the Ministry of Justice and is still on the way for a consultation, and it is in the Government's legislative plan with the aim of submitting a proposal to Parliament still in week 51 this year. In my own activities, I have tried to give all possible support to this project. The report of the working group is based on the tradition of Finnish constitutional law, but it does, from the point of view of society and its members, have a strong view of the future needs and effectiveness of the rule of law, and would significantly clarify the division of tasks between the highest law enforcement authorities. I therefore hope that the legislation will be brought before Parliament and adopted as soon as possible. Preliminary regulatory and other judicial review of the drafting of legislation is one of the priorities of the Chancellor of Justice. One of the key points of view here is the implementation of inclusion and participation rights and the implementation of the principles of good lawmaking. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs rightly stresses the need for a good preparation process and the importance and importance of professional, including constitutional, lawmakers. Lawmakers are a key competence group for the recovery and renewal of our society. The views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs give excellent support to our everyday law enforcement work. In the first report on the rule of law published by the European Commission yesterday, Finland was widely acknowledged that we have the basic pillars of the rule of law in place, even though there are development needs. One thing that has been mentioned in a positive light is the system of preliminary drafting, where the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is the most important actor and where the Chancellor of Justice also has an important role to play. On the basis of this report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs highlights the digitalisation of public administration and the violence of close relationships. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs strongly stressed the need to maintain the importance of the same themes, and that is what we have done. In this report we have discussed the problem of the usability of digital services as part of the administrative service principle.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u103	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u104	Mr President! The Chancellor of Justice's constitutional purpose is to ensure that the fundamental principles of our constitution and the fundamental values of our constitution are realised. The task is emphasised in exceptional circumstances and the sustainability and functioning of the rule of law and democracy are weighed in exceptional circumstances. The report by the Attorney General before us on his activities was still prepared under normal circumstances. When the report text was completed, coronavirus was the cause of a pandemic that was previously commonly warned by the World Health Organization (WHO) experts. Our report therefore contains an additional speech by the Chancellor of Justice and the Deputy Chancellor of Justice. In this report, I will present ideas on the rule of law and the rule of law, updated to 15 April this year. Now we are back in a situation where the epidemic is accelerating. Preliminary regulatory control of exceptional circumstances and exceptional circumstances has been a laborious and very rapid task of independent judicial control over the Supreme Government of the Chancellor of Justice. Modern law enforcement supports state and government activities, but it represents the perspective of citizens and is in constant interaction with citizens. It deals with errors and omissions on its own initiative. The law also requires the authorities to cooperate in good administration with other authorities and to use their powers effectively and swiftly to protect people. This is essential when regional and local authorities have a vital role to play. This will certainly be the subject of the 2020 report in due course. Parliamentary reconciliation rules are important for the functioning of democracy. In the event of a change of government, the requesting government will act as a supply minister until the appointment of the new government. The role and powers of the Ministry of Delivery are more limited than normal, as it does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament as required by the Constitution. In the report year 2019, the Ministry of Delivery acted as the Board of Directors as an exception even before the parliamentary elections and for longer than usual. The Chancellor of Justice has a key role to play in assessing the powers of the Department of Delivery and the ministers who are members of it, and in the reporting year this caused a great deal of work in addition to the length of the ministry's term of office and the fact that the preparation of many issues had not been prepared for the previous resignation of the government. In my speech in the report, I have grouped together the interpretations of the role and competences of the Ministry of Delivery. The basic role of law enforcement can be seen as a combination of the service and dialogue of the rule of law customers, people and initiatives to protect and develop the rule of law. The problems of the legal state are often structural, legislative, administrative and resource-related, information systems and culture issues. They extend their influence to the great crowd. Problems often arise best through the experience of individuals. Not all dialogue is relevant to structural or legal issues, yet it is of great importance to the rule of law, social peace and the experience of the fairness of individuals. Mr President! Much good was achieved in judicial and regulatory law enforcement during the reporting year. Complaints are still increasing and are increasingly complex. However, we have been able to maintain our ability to function well. We solved more complaints the year before. Processing times remain reasonable. Justice and a fair trial also include access to competent and reliable legal assistance. There is an increasing number of cases under the supervision of lawyers and authorised legal advisers, paying particular attention to the careful conduct of hearings and the adequate knowledge of the legal adviser. Mr President! The forthcoming report will contain a number of thematic articles on the implementation of fundamental and human rights and justice in general and on the pains of implementation. They will hopefully serve Parliament as a legislator in the development of Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u105	Mr President! The theme for 2018 was child protection, but child welfare was particularly highlighted in this Annual Report of the Chancellor of Justice, and that is what I want to talk about. The comments are quite shocking, but unfortunately not surprising. The resource shortages and problems of child welfare have been known for a long time. The final report of the working group on child welfare reform, published a few weeks ago, concluded that there are currently at least two thousand employees in child welfare. According to the annual report, there is a shortage of qualified social workers in municipalities and child welfare workers feel that there is simply not enough resources to be able to carry out their work properly. For example, it is not possible to carry out sufficient surveillance visits to foster care facilities for children. In the demanding care of child welfare, the turnover of social workers and the excessive load of work are shown in a harsh way. For example, in a survey carried out last year by Yle, as many as 50 child welfare institutions or professional family homes have received comments from Regional State Administrative Agencies and Parliament's Ombudsman on irregularities. Social workers do not have enough time to find out how the child they invest in can and is everything there should be. Investing outside your home is a big and tough change for every child and young person that affects your whole life. At best, a social worker can increase the sense of security for a child placed. Mr President! As stated in the Chancellor of Justice's report, exceptional circumstances can create yet more serious difficulties for the realisation of the fundamental rights of vulnerable people in addition to these former problems. The structural problems of child welfare can be repeated. Avoiding close contact may make it impossible for a social worker to communicate with a child. For example, multiprofessional cooperation has not necessarily been possible to make child welfare declarations during this period. So the interest rate will only make things even worse as the intervention is prolonged. The child welfare field has been showing symptoms for a long time due to excessive workload. The issues raised in the report are groundbreaking. I hope that the committee will focus on this in its own work. In addition, the reform of the Child Welfare Act is urgent. We have stated that the objective would be that, from 2022 onwards, a social worker could have no more than 35 children as customers in the future. Child welfare must provide adequate resources and workers as soon as possible, because our children cannot wait.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u106	Mr President! Thank you for the report by the Attorney General. As regards the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, several comments focus on changes to the Mining Act. On page 59, it is pointed out that the hearing of Sámi lawyers was neglected, on page 61, it is raised as a problem that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy decided to obtain a report from the mining law firm representing mining companies on the need for change in mining legislation, and there are other comments here in relation to this sector. It is important that we ensure that public confidence in the functioning of ministries is maintained and that good governance and legislation are respected. Independent legislative drafting is also a prerequisite for democracy. There are serious problems of structural corruption in countries where companies can overshadowed and dictate legislation, and in such a country, we do not want to go down a road like that — at least no more than this, unfortunately, when these remarks have already been made here. It is questionable whether companies with a direct financial interest can be involved in drafting the law. There is also a request for clarification, possibly more, on the current preparation of the Mining Act, in which more mining companies are directly involved in the working group, companies whose financial results are directly affected by changes in this future legislation. According to several international definitions, such a situation is a very direct form of structural corruption, and it would be interesting to have a broader explanation of how Finnish legislation and the preparation of legislation will be able to avoid such an undesirable situation in the future. It is clear that those concerned should be consulted, but it is a different matter if they are preparing the legislation that affects them. This will certainly also affect other sectors in one way or another. There would certainly also have been concern if, during the last period, when the outsourcing of social services and the market model of social services were considered and prepared, there, in the working group, then directly, this draft law would have been written by one of these large health companies, such as the Bee or the Health Centre or any of these companies. Now this situation is before our eyes as regards the preparation of the Mining Act, which is to say that it is involved in drawing up the draft for those companies that have a direct economic interest. Of course, the actions of the authorities must also be reliable, and if there are very strong signs that there is no good governance there, then it is of course the interests of the entire nation to intervene. Hopefully, there will also be a comprehensive explanation of whether proper action has been taken. There must be the confidence of our citizens in the preparation of the law, and here, too, with regard to the report of 2019, it can be said that this has not been achieved for this sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u107	Mr President! It was forgotten to raise yet another important issue which emerges from this report in the area of child protection, but we also have more to do with services for the elderly and the disabled, health care in general, namely self-monitoring. It is stated here that self-monitoring is not a substitute for supervision and it is pointed out that when the authorities alone cannot monitor the adequacy of the services, self-monitoring is the solution. That is what we are basing a great deal on now, including the future reform of social security, in fact all the reforms of social welfare reform that have been going on have also been strongly based on this self-monitoring. Now that the Chancellor of Justice is here, I would like to stimulate a little debate on this review of past activities or these verification visits, how this self-control actually fits in with our system of control of services and how much can be counted on it. Officials have clearly expressed doubts about self-monitoring, which often remains formal. Of course, we have heard a great deal about the lack of self-control by private service providers, but recently we have also heard that there have been problems with self-monitoring in public services in a very similar way. If our systems and legislation are strongly based on self-monitoring and if, then, here in the report too, it is found to be seriously lame, then I see that there is a contradiction that should be able to be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u108	Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the situation in child protection, now that the Chancellor of Justice is here. When we all know how much child welfare services today become feedback, which is not always very flattering, could there be even some sort of comprehensive explanation of child welfare, so that it would be like this uniform and get up-to-date information, where to go and what are the most urgent needs for change? Then, when the Chancellor of Justice raised this covid situation in his opening speech, a few words about the rights of disabled people, which, especially in such a situation, where the crisis comes up, arise. Among other things, their right to life was raised in the spring and there was a lot of discussion about this restriction on intensive care, and there are some shortcomings in the patient law at the moment, so that is what I would like to highlight here. An excellent speech from Mr Salos on this self-monitoring, on which our services cannot rest, which specifically affect the most vulnerable or people who are very wounded. In other words, it could be thought that if such a system were to be maintained, then there should also be a system of sanctions, if it is not of a quality which is not carried out with regard to its own control. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u109	Mr President! I would have asked the Chancellor of Justice how European case law is related to Finland, at least now in the mining sector and in the mining legislation, in which the direct beneficiary companies are involved in writing the law — of course this example could be from any sector — or at least in the working group preparing a draft law instead of being on the bench of the people to be heard. And just like there was a good conversation. Water is our citizens' initiative: however, if we seek to safeguard the whole national interest, how can it be secured if we have any gaps in legislation in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u110	Mr President! I would like to give you an example of that very living life in the Child Welfare District: the state school homes. They're quite challenging places, aren't they? There are located such children who have behind a number of failed placements, and there are even such persons who may have pantarangations. Now it has happened that, according to the Ombudsman's interpretation, freedom of movement, among other things, has been addressed there. In these institutions, for understandable reasons, the movement of children and young people to be placed is restricted, and now the situation is that movement can no longer be restricted, and it has caused some problems, including such multi- patrol missions there, because there have been considerable problems with both intoxicants and other behaviors. It is clear that there is a considerable legislative gap here. There is a problem of competence when there is really nothing to base on, how to restrict and how to tackle, for example, mobility, even if there are obvious reasons for it. This has caused an intolerable situation. There is now a growing tide of chaos, and there is an obvious threat of violence. There's already been armaments. Somehow this shows how the spirit of the Child Welfare Act can in no way be realized in this matter. Now I could ask the chancellor what can be done about this situation and what should be done about it, because this is very urgent, this is a very acute problem and this at its worst can lead to the loss of lives. This should be put right very quickly. Is there any alternatives to this kind of thing to grasp and move forward as quickly as possible, so that the spirit of child welfare that everyone understands can be realized in this? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u111	Mr President! I would like to thank the representatives for their questions. I'm trying to get short answers. Our report contains a thematic article on the implementation of fundamental rights in general, in particular fundamental social rights in relation to resources and guidance, and this issue is now topical in these major reforms of society. This situation is such that supervision is needed and self-monitoring is a good tool for quality work and requires staff to be involved. It can then be used, but it is by no means sufficient: there is also a need for separate official controls, and then there is also a need for supervision by its organiser in the municipalities and possibly in the future in the region of social services. For example, when private services are provided, monitoring visits must also be directed and made from the customer’s point of view. I think we should pay attention to this. Then there are these practical problems in child welfare. These inspections of child welfare institutions have now been carried out by the Parliamentary Ombudsman and, in particular, by the Assistant Ombudsman. We have focused on this issue of regulatory control, but that is where the overall picture is drawn and I am sure the Constitutional Committee can consider how to combine these paths, and then in the legislative work the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. From my point of view, there are legislative shortcomings, that is, there has been an attempt for several years to bring about a law of autonomy that would give clearer rights and obligations to staff and that legislation should be put in place. There is also a need for training and permanent staff and the ability to create a safe, caring, but also, if necessary, bordering militarism for children who are in a difficult situation. Finally, I would like to mention this pandemic in relation to this legal situation for people with disabilities: it has a constant need to take care of the protection of people in vulnerable situations like this. And finally, on this matter of drafting the law in the light of mining law. My decision stressed that the information given to Parliament and to the explanatory statement of the Government's proposal must be objective, i.e. that the sectors can participate in the preparation of the background and make parts of it, but then there must be a sufficiently objective composition which is remote from the individual beneficiaries and which then makes the actual proposals and then the official work is objective. This is rather different from one country to another, but there are different ways of ensuring it, and there is also the question of these transparency and lobby registers. We would still have such a fine-tuning of the rule of law in this regard. Mr President! I understand that I have answered the questions raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u112	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Intelligence.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u113	Mr President! On 1 September, the Helsingin Sanomat reported on the scandal concerning the Danish intelligence service. The news reported a leak of information that Danish military intelligence has an inappropriate culture of legality. Military intelligence is suspected of wrongly obtaining information about Danish citizens and passing on information. It is also a serious argument that the intelligence agency's supervisory body has been misinformed. According to the news, the matter is being investigated and the head of local military intelligence has been suspended. When Finland’s intelligence laws were being prepared, international comparisons were also made in Sweden and Denmark. Both are good analogue countries, where the rule of law, governance and human rights are well realised. However, an example shows that good laws are not always enough. We need surveillance. Unhealthy organisational culture can start gradually Mr President! Our intelligence legislation was long well behind in comparison with other countries. The objective of creating the necessary legal basis was included in the 2015 Government Programme. Our security authorities need up-to-date means to identify and address security threats. The new legislation on intelligence and its monitoring is now in force and will withstand international comparisons from the point of view of improving intelligence requirements and security as well as the protection of private life and the secret of messages. The new intelligence legislation improved Finland’s ability to protect itself against, for example, terrorism and foreign espionage. Civil and military intelligence provides analytical data to the senior government to support decision-making. The central administrator of the intelligence authorities is the Intelligence Supervisory Authority, which has now issued its first annual report. It is up to the authorised representative to monitor the legality of the use of intelligence. In addition, a Committee on Intelligence was set up to oversee civilian and military intelligence. We are monitoring the adequacy and appropriateness of the inquiry in committee. The people and organisations responsible for intelligence and its monitoring are now creating practices that will also guide future activities. It's important that we find the right rhythm. In the beginning, we should be sharply over-focused rather than subtlely large-scale. It would be difficult to change the rhythm later. Mr President! In Finland, trust in the authorities is good — it must continue to be so. We have strong acceptance of intelligence legislation and confidence in its safety objectives. However, there must be no mistakes, and if they do, they must be addressed immediately. A recent work published by the National Defence School entitled ‘The following is written on the trail of Finnishinquiry culture:’In countries with a weak or incompleteinquiry culture, theinquiry Similarly, in a strong culture of intelligence, the The objective is clear: Finland must be a country of a strong intelligence culture. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u114	Mr President! Last year, up-to-date intelligence legislation was introduced in Finland. At the same time, this task was also set up by the Intelligence Supervisor, and we are now discussing the first report by the Intelligence Supervisor in the history of Finland. The field of overall security has changed rapidly in recent years, and the Finnish authorities have long been in need of new tools and methods to respond better to security threats, but also of such an intelligence supervisory officer, whose main task is to ensure that intelligence is targeted only at activities that seriously threaten national security. In general, it is a matter of military action by a foreign state, of intelligence by a foreign state or of terrorism. The committee will now be able to deal with this report by the delegate. While I was browsing this, of course, it was interesting to see these statistics on the activities of the delegate, including the fact that over the past year 50 actual surveillance missions were carried out by the delegate, in which he checked the decisions taken by the intelligence authorities on the use of intelligence methods and on the protection of intelligence. Of course, this report is a very general explanation of what the delegate has done and what his working time has been at. Certainly, although it would also be very interesting to have access to these actual monitoring visits, it is understandable that this is a very sensitive issue for Finland, and that is why we are dealing with a very general report from the delegate. However, I hope that, now that the new committee is working on this work, an in-depth debate will also be carried out on the basis of this report. Indeed, the Councilman has taken a position or raised his own observations on intelligence legislation, and that is of course important information for the committee as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u115	Mr President! This subject is exceptionally sensitive and, on the other hand, very important and essential for Finland's security. Military intelligence and other forms of intelligence exist in the world, and I think Mr Kiuru perfectly formulated that Finland should be a country of a strong intelligence culture, and that is what this is also about: we have the office of this intelligence commissioner and we have improved this monitoring, which also applies to Finnish intelligence activities. It is valuable to recognize the fact — I listened to Mr Kiuru’s speech from outside — that we must be careful about different directions. We have now talked a lot about electronic communications and its development, including the 5G system, among other things. Too many speakers in the debate show that only the 5G system is vulnerable from a certain direction of the air. This is the same vulnerability we have had in previous 3G and 4G systems, and we must be open to it, so we must be vigilant, then there will be different types of intelligence from one direction or another. After all, there was an extensive article in Suomen Kuvalehti about whether it was a year ago when it came. Let me take just one example here: there is a huge number of these examples that we can see from the world. I will take just one example to show that this phenomenon is therefore broader than it may appear in many debates. The article concerned the Crypto secretive system, which was once established by the CIA in Switzerland, which was then used by several dozen countries, including the Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, until the 21st century, and then suddenly revealed that this was not a neutral Swiss company, but was based on military intelligence, which, on the other hand, has told us that the CIA was able to reveal, among other things, this explosion of a bar in Berlin, that it had Libya's intelligence service in the background, which was revealed precisely through this system. This is only an example of the fact that we have intelligence on a different scale from one country to another, and in this respect Finland must be very careful that we are careful about secret, sensitive information, if it is followed, whether it comes from one direction or another. In this respect, the Finnish authorities have, in a commendable way, now also shown that there is a desire to ensure security of information at all levels, that military intelligence keeps us under control in such a way that we are in the most secure environment possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u116	Mr President! Now there really is a historical report in the referral debate, the first report by the Intelligence Commissioner, which is now from last year. Of course, it is a pleasure to read that, for the time being, it seems that the legislation has generally been successful, because the report of the delegate does not raise the major problems that would arise in the field of intelligence. It is also good to see here that, apart from the fact that it is in the hands of this intelligence officer and the Committee on Intelligence, all the intelligence authorities have also tightened up their own controls and there they also have ex ante supervisors and legal experts. Similarly, the judiciary is in the middle of it, so they then grant certain powers. I believe that this will be dealt with in committee with a great deal of interest and piety, and the work will continue there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u117	Mr President! Indeed, this is the first time that, following the drafting of the intelligence law and the law on intelligence, Parliament, the great Chamber has discussed the intelligence law and its supervision, the powers of the authorities, but also, of course, the obligations to carry out the intelligence task legally. In this context, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their feedback on this referral debate. If possible, these debates will be taken into account when drawing up the report. Perhaps, however, I would like to make it clear to the record that, even in this corona era, I personally would have liked Parliament to have received even more feedback in the referral debate on this report by the intelligence supervisory officer, because when the law on intelligence activities, both military and civilian intelligence and related constitutional changes, was adopted, the drafting of the legislation on intelligence, can say a great, if not a great deal of interest, both here in Parliament and in Parliament, as well as among the public. On the other hand, perhaps as a corona, but on the other hand, perhaps the good report from the Intelligence Supervisor gives the impression that there seems to be no greater need for a wide-ranging debate at least this first time, but I dare to say, as chairman of the Committee on Intelligence and here with many colleagues who have spoken in the Chamber this evening, that the committee is fully committed to this report by the delegate, not only because it is the first report of the delegate, but because this work deserves full attention from the committee. And what will then be reported to Parliament in the report will be public, and the committee will also go over matters relating to this report by the Commissioner for Intelligence, including those that are not public, but are under parliamentary control, on the committee's agenda, in the autumn that begins now. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u118	Mr President! As the representative and chairman of the committee, Mr Kari, said, during the last parliamentary term, there was a great deal of interest in this intelligence legislation. This was the case, and it is indeed surprising, or it might be surprising that there are so few of us in this Chamber at the moment. Similarly, it might be surprising that the media have reported surprisingly little on this situation that we have had since the legislation was introduced. But I consider it to be good news because, as I mentioned in my speech, what In Denmark, if we had a petty excess of authority or some clear errors in legislation, we could be quite certain that there would be enough debate and representatives in this Chamber for a long evening, and I think that is a good signal. The work that has been done has not been done in vain. That is obviously a success, and now it is up to us in committee and to the Intelligence Commissioner to ensure that this is the case in the future, and of course also for the authorities who are doing that important work on the ground, that the right culture of legality, the right way of working and the rhythm are going to start at the very beginning. Later, it will be difficult to change. We're on a good road. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-01-ps-122.u119	I would simply like to complete Mr Kiuru's speech on who is present. We have a recommendation to listen to the debate in the study if there is no need to speak. I believe that many Members of Parliament are currently dealing with this situation in their own office.
