ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u1	Before the opening of the sitting: I'm sure everyone will remember that there must be two whole days between the first and second readings. In other words, if the law on the closing of restaurants is passed before 24 p.m. today, then it can be dealt with at second reading on Saturday. If it goes beyond that time, it will move forward 24 hours at a time, and its entry into force will also. I would like to express this wish when we all soon see how many speakers are being asked to share it with the appropriate number of minutes, so that we would be at least before the half-thirty-thirty decision-making stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u2	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 5/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. General discussion — Mr Vartiainen, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u3	Mr President! Is that where you're from, or where you're from? [The President : From ] Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has reached a unanimous vote. I'll give you the main points. This is based on a shared understanding between the Government and the President of the Republic on the fulfilment of the conditions of exceptional circumstances. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also notes that the proposed legislation is exceptional in many ways, both in terms of preparation and in terms of parliamentary procedure. The preparation of exceptional circumstances has not been able to take into account and weigh the aspects of the various administrative sectors with the usual thoroughness. We have to accept this. The committee believes that economic activity and normal business conditions should be distorted as little as possible in order to ensure the conditions for doing business and the economic viability of society. Legislation should encourage the maintenance of economic activity. However, in exceptional circumstances, which Finland, like the rest of the world, has fallen into, this general rule must be able to deviate in a limited way. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stresses that such measures must be strictly limited and precise, both in terms of duration and scope. The committee points out that the infectious disease situation can change very quickly and therefore calls for proactive measures. The regulation proposed in the government proposal aims to limit the uncontrolled spread of viral infections so as not to seriously endanger the carrying capacity of the health system. In view of the mode of spread of the virus, it is essential to reduce the physical intimacy of people. As a result, people's social interaction is reduced by imposing a feeding movement, including indoor and outdoor spaces, to be kept closed for a specified period of time. However, operators covered by the Act on Accommodation and Catering would have the right and possibility to continue their business activities as regards the sale of food or drink for consumption elsewhere. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that this legislation is, of course, not only capable of affecting the spread of the virus, but it is an essential part of the choice of means now to be chosen. Of course, the impact of this in other control countries must also be monitored. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy points out that the justification for a change in the law is described in a general way in the government proposal and stresses that the justification and impact assessment should be specified in the general context of the draft law, even if the circumstances make it difficult and uncertain. The Act on Infectious Diseases was discussed. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has raised the question of whether the objectives of the proposed legislation could be better achieved by amending the Act on communicable diseases. In the light of the opinion of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, among other things, the committee considers that the amendment of the Act on communicable diseases would have meant a fundamental change in the general powers of the regional authorities in the event of communicable diseases. It has not been possible to bring about such a change under these exceptional circumstances. It would be justified to assess the need to amend the Act on communicable diseases because of their more principled nature in normal circumstances and in the extent required by their nature. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has now assessed the proposed regulatory solution and its impact on the insurance cover of catering companies. The coverage of insurance cover depends on the terms and conditions applicable to the contracts. In any case, on the basis of the report received, only a very small part of the suspension insurance will compensate for the suspension of operations under exceptional circumstances such as those at hand. These insurance policies are not designed for a global epidemic, with large-scale business interruptions or restrictions. This underlines the need for specific support measures for undertakings subject to restrictive measures. Staff restaurant activities would have been excluded from the scope of the proposed regulation, i.e. staff restaurant activities, which means serving food, drink, for the community, foundations, institutions' own staff, restricted districts. After weighing up the various aspects, including the time limit for the proposed regulation in relation to the market failure it causes, the Committee notes that the proposed regulation is justified in these circumstances. However, these movements must be such that they are not open to all the public. It is also clear to the Committee that this regulation can be thought to have a clarifying effect on the operating environment. Regulation can facilitate the negotiating position of companies, in particular with a view to moderate lease agreements. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy requires that the government examine whether, for example, the moderation of rents requires separate support measures or regulatory changes in order to ensure the continuity of business. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it important for the Government to assess as a matter of urgency the possibility of making payments under public law to regulated companies more reasonable and possibly a temporary reduction. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes that the plight of restaurants be eased by the rapid granting of exit licences under the Alcohol Act. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stresses that measures restricting the conduct of the economy and their economic impact are reflected in the economy and ultimately in the long-term conditions for the organisation of health care. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stresses that action should be limited to what is necessary. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy points out that the impact of exceptional circumstances and restrictions on the operating conditions of companies in the sector is strong and must be mitigated by all means. This requires action by both the public and private sectors. The need for cooperation between municipalities, the state, financial and insurance institutions and landlords is obvious. Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered this in depth. In its opinion, it considers it essential that the law provides for reasonable compensation for the losses caused by this ban and also for mitigating arrangements for traders. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy therefore requires that the government immediately initiate the preparation of complementary support measures to facilitate, in particular, the role of the catering operators most affected by the adverse effects of exceptional circumstances. Despite the risks involved in the support measures in terms of risk to competition neutrality and market distortions, it is necessary to initiate measures to safeguard the continuity of business operations during and after exceptional circumstances. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stresses that, although prevention of the spread of the epidemic is at this stage the most urgent task, the Government must at the same time continue to assess the possibility of limiting the means that have now been put in place and preparing for their orderly dismantling, if necessary at regional level. The committee stresses the need for the regulation now proposed to enter into force as soon as possible. It can be implemented, as required by the Constitutional Committee, subject to exceptional circumstances, regional and time constraints. The Committee believes that, in terms of the effectiveness of regulation, adequate coverage of regulation should be ensured in the event of a change in the disease situation. Mr President! On the basis of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have amended these articles as requested by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. What is also essential here is that, although it is now stated here that the law is in force at 31. until May 2020, however, the actual effectiveness of the law is linked to exceptional circumstances. Only in the event of an exceptional situation can the Government regulations that implement this regulation be adopted and will be in force in the event of an emergency. In that sense, this 31 May is the theoretical and nominal end date. In addition to these, there are four statements: 1. ‘It requires the Government to explain how reasonable compensation for damage caused by the income and operating conditions of restaurant entrepreneurs isimplemented in order to ensure that 2. ‘The Commission requires that the government not be caught up in any action to support, 3. ‘The Commission requires the Government to take care of the fairness 4. ‘The Commission requires the Government to clarify whether there is an alternative derogation and how this legislation is being
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u4	Mr President! We must thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and its chairman, Mr Vartiainen and his team, for their very good and thorough work in a difficult, tight timetable, in a difficult place. When this is the case, it is acceptable that these proposals should be brought to Parliament with such a rapid timetable and taken forward with such short notice, which, for example, has now been the case with these legislative proposals before the referral debate and then when they have gone to the committees. In fact, this proposal deals in an exceptional way with the freedom of the Finnish economy and also with the protection of property, which is why I am a little surprised that the economic side has not been taken into account in this proposal itself when it has been brought into Parliament. It would have been in good administration to bring this package of aid to the restaurant and café sector as part of this closure decision, and not, first, to take a decision which is violently lacking in freedom of business and property protection, and then, after intervention by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, these corrections and measures will have to be taken. It should have been involved in this discussion in building strong confidence that these companies will be well taken care of alongside other companies. In my opinion, the timetable should be that already in the next amending budget this kind of restaurant and café and lunch crisis package will be brought to Parliament. It cannot be delayed any longer, because from my childhood I remember saying that it is easier to get money from the mouth of a lion than from an insurance company, and so it is becoming apparent here too that, although there is legislation to close restaurants, quite a few restaurants and cafes have already sent out a message that there are otherwise no suspension insurances in force in this kind of situation. They would have worked, for example, when a local outbreak of disease hit one of the restaurants or cafes, yes, but not this type of restaurant, and that is why it is particularly responsible for the government's action now and for bringing in a special package already in the next amending budget targeted at these restaurants, bars, cafes affected by this proposal. After all, this proposal excludes staff restaurants, and now, in line with the Constitutional Committee, the committee states that it is possible to restrict regionally and also over time. I was somewhat unclear whether, however, the starting point is that this law is now coming into force in Finland as a whole to touch, for example, Kainuu, where there are no problems of this kind, or whether it is intended to proceed gradually and take effect where there is a need. On the other hand, I also received a message that the karaoke bar in Kainuu can be open if it is not on the other side. Is there going to be such movement, which is what other legislation is trying to prevent, that is well worth considering. In my view, this section on regional delimitation and time limitation must be used quickly or by means of attention, for example, in the case of the cafés of low-populated service stations. In fact, the functioning of the gas station network in the country of long distances is of paramount importance for security of supply. The mere sale of fuel to no gas station is sufficient to keep them open, and this should quickly lead to road stations shutting down their doors and thus also to their services, such as those supporting heavy traffic, being driven down. In many towns and villages in rural areas, gas stations are also central places for Posti and parcel delivery and other activities, and if all these stop now, we will soon be in new big problems. I hope that particular attention will be paid to this. I would like to end, Mr President, by thanking you again for the fact that, for example, state-owned Senate properties have already announced a 100% rent reduction. [The President knocks ] April... — Is this the case, Speaker?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u5	I'm sorry I knocked. I did not remember that there was a basic recommendation for 7 minutes, but at the same time I am given the opportunity to say that for 7 minutes this will be late in 24 hours. On average, I would like to see fewer than 5 minutes of speeches, but you will solve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u6	Mr President! I'll try to talk to you for less than three minutes. Both the government and the committees have worked very hard and worked hard under pressure, and I would also like to thank you for this day. As an entrepreneur, I have received a great deal of contact from the entrepreneur field. With this decision, what is being done now is their great concern for the future, but they also have a strong understanding of this particular situation and of these decisions, what we are doing here today and tomorrow and this week. You see, human life is something that cannot be replaced, and the risk of the spread of corona in restaurants is something that is very difficult to prevent. There is also a great deal of concern for this house with regard to the various types of support measures that would enable companies to overcome this pandemic. I know that this work is being done in government at the moment, is being done extremely seriously and is being done night by night. I also know from entrepreneurs that entrepreneurs generally expect fast decisions. Today, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs also drew attention to the importance of support measures in their opinions and report this evening. This crisis will affect both entrepreneurs and some 50,000, up to 100,000, workers working in the restaurant sector. Unfortunately, it is almost certain that even bankruptcies will not be avoided. However, the number of bankruptcies must be minimised, because I know that the effects of their bankruptcy on the entrepreneurial family can be almost worse than long-term disease and mental illness. Mr President! There is no doubt that companies will have to reflect on new operating models that can at least partially continue their business in a new way. Food rations are still allowed to be sold out, and I think that a tasty restaurant food that has been picked up instead of going to a restaurant and enjoyed together at home will get a new popularity in our Finnish homes. I know a lot of business colleagues for 25 years, and I think I also know the spirit of the entrepreneur. I believe and hope that this challenging situation will also create new innovative solutions for providing services to customers in their homes. I therefore hope that the customers of restaurants will now also adapt to the exceptional situation and use the out-of-business services. Mr President! An extraordinary time requires extraordinary action from all of us. However, human health and human life are always the most important thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u7	Mr President! I was on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for several hours today to deal with this report and we are really considering how this should be done. This is a sector that employs more than 50,000 people in the restaurant sector alone, and the hotel and restaurant sector both, including nearly 90,000, and there are 10,000 companies, so we are talking about a very significant employer in Finland. Now, according to this law, restaurants, cafés, bars and nightclubs can be closed until the end of May, but the Government decree will then decide and enforce the exact area in which this will take place. Now, the entry into force of this law means that, even if these places are closed, the take-away is still possible, and staff restaurant activities are possible as long as they are operated in a closed area, i.e. that no outsiders can get there. We are thinking a lot about this problem with the staff restaurant, for example, from the point of view of whether it gives these staff restaurants a competitive advantage over small restaurants, which then cannot function, given the situation in which the restaurants will be opened in due course. However, they have a better chance of investing and investing in new ones too. But we have come to the conclusion that it is important for the functioning of society as a whole that staff restaurants remain in operation for as long as the recommendations relating to the epidemic are followed, for example, as regards how close people can be to eating. We also wonder how this issue of exit can be developed in such a way that restaurants can earn additional income at this difficult time, and one thing was selling out in the case of alcohol. We currently have 8400 restaurants that sell alcohol, but only 300 of them have the right to leave. We considered it and, in fact, we called for the authorisation of restaurants wishing to apply for this authorisation to be dealt with as quickly and as smoothly as possible. This would be one way to help restaurants. One issue that was also considered was the law in which these changes should be made and, for example, the question of the circumstances under which suspension insurance would be one that could then compensate for the loss of income for these companies. Unfortunately, it turned out that even if the Act on communicable diseases had been applied — now this is done under the Act on accommodation and nutrition services — there would, as a general rule, have been no compensation for the suspension insurance. That is the unfortunate fact. Some suspension insurances provide epidemic security in case an authority can order an individual company to be disinfected and closed because of infectious disease, but this is not the main rule and only applies to a very small number of companies. As a general rule, suspension insurance is not designed for a global epidemic, with large-scale and long-term business disruptions. In other words, what law is applied would not have helped these companies at this point. That is why we are now considering what the State and other actors can do to help these companies in the form of support measures. In fact, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also required that only if this law can enter into force, that support measures should be targeted. Mr President! We must remember that the state and the taxpayers alone are not the ones who can do this; we are in the same boat, if that is what we can say, and with municipalities, the state, financial institutions and insurance companies and landlords. Many of these insurance companies, which we are talking about here, are also landlords for these restaurants. They will then have the opportunity to consider how to compensate or give discounts on these rentals. We are also thinking about the fact that when intervention measures are targeted, they must be targeted specifically at those who need them most. For example, these staff restaurants, which are now allowed to operate, obviously do not need so much support. Secondly, we are also considering this model of a shopping centre in the sense that if the shopping centre itself is already working well or is receiving support from the ECB, for example, then it is not necessarily necessary for Finland to think separately about how to support it, but then give direct support to restaurants. We also talked about the kind of human loss this will cause, and we wonder how individual persons who will then be laid off can be compensated. Of course, different models have been considered, but at this point we can only give the Government an invitation to consider, in due course, the aid package that can be applied to these companies. One model would be, for example, a calculation of the wages and salaries sum, which would then allow these companies and their employees to be helped in this difficult situation. Mr President! We are in a very difficult situation, but I would also like to say that these laws are not regulated on the basis of the easiest criteria, but above all we are thinking about the health of our citizens and how we can prevent the spread of this serious epidemic. I hope that, in due course, we will also be able to make the decisions that this law will then be dismantled and, as it were, will be brought into normal order in the field of nutrition and accommodation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u8	Mr President! Thank you to the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for this swift implementation of parliamentaryism — we spent about 24 hours ago yesterday in the debate on the referral of this law to this great House. I would also like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for taking a stand on this Act on communicable diseases, because there were quite a few people here yesterday asking why this regulation is not being made on the basis of this Act on communicable diseases. It is important that you write here that the objectives of the legislation can be better achieved by this and ‘the committee shall, in the light of another opinion from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health,confirm that the amendment of the legislation on communicable diseases would have resulted in a substantial change in the general powers of the regional authorities in the event So at least I read this in such a way that it might also have meant that it would not have been brought into force so quickly. It is also important that there are texts here on these suspension insurance policies. Of course, they are not designed for such a global epidemic. Korona is a very difficult epidemic, it is our invisible enemy. We cannot know who is carrying it and infecting it, and that is why it creates especially in social gatherings such a terrible weapon against our society. It is also important and absolutely necessary that restaurants and cafes retain this right of exit from food and drink, which comes from another law. For example, if you think about cafes, there may be small family parties in the coming weeks, family celebrations for just a few people, for which you want cake and the like. It can also bring in that new business. I already know more entrepreneurs who think that selling out through different kinds of new products can get the business patching up that turnover does not fall completely to zero. I know that, among other things, Kauppiuri 5 in Oulu is doing just that and many others. It is therefore necessary to take swift and effective action in every area, because old recipes do not work in this area — but they do not work here in our Parliament, and it is therefore important that we also call on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to make a public appeal to these rental issues: ‘However, from the industry’s point of view regulation can be assessed as having an environmental impact. Regulation can also facilitate the negotiating position of companies, in particular with regard to the moderation of lease agreements. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy requires that the government examine whether, for example, the moderation of rents requires separate support measures or changes in regulation to ensure the continuity of business operations during exceptional circumstances.’ Mr President! Thank you, too, for the fact that the committee has clearly and emphatically written that there is a need for government action, for various support measures for the very difficult situation of restaurant and café entrepreneurs. It is also important that, although this law applies to accommodation and catering activities, our hotels may still be open. There may even be a situation in the coming weeks that we need them. There are people who can't be quarantined at home. With regard to risk groups and others, it is important that we have people who can stay in hotels. It is now hoped that hotels near the airport would be such so-called quarantine hotels, and it is also important that hotels can offer breakfast in the form of lunch packages, for example, and hopefully it also applies to lunch and dinner. It cannot be assumed that if you are in quarantine, you will have to leave for dinner or lunch somewhere else. Finally, Mr President, these committee statements are indeed important. It is important that ‘the government explains how reasonable compensation for the damage suffered by restaurant entrepreneurs in terms of income and operating conditions isimplemented to ensure that financial losses are distributed in a fair manner,at the time of theexemption anddeparture of restaurant entrepreneurs where appropriate’,and also that ‘the government is required Mr President! I shall conclude with a view to bringing this matter to a close in the course of today's debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u9	Mr. Speaker! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has done a very good job on this timetable, given that we had a referral debate on this proposal last night at about the same time. I also think that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has taken note of the comments made in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on which I would like to highlight in particular: The point raised by Mr PeV is that the reasonable compensation and impact of the losses caused by the ban must be taken into account for traders. I think it is very important that this has been raised, because, in practice, with this very exceptional situation, our restaurant entrepreneurs, café entrepreneurs and so on are in a very difficult situation, because with this sudden economic shock, their entire business is out of control. In many cases, turnover has fallen by as much as 90 or even 100 per cent, the staff have been laid off, and we are now considering how to get ahead of this for the next few months, so that, in some way, after this crisis, we can continue to work again. Mr. Speaker! This report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also covered this whole issue of the Act on communicable diseases and the suspension of insurance, and this is the subject of a representative's report. The tragedy gave a good speech. I have received a great deal of feedback from our entrepreneurs in the field, and my own view is that some entrepreneurs who have been made under the Act on Disease Control would also have been helped by their insurance, and I have gone through and read these things, but it must also be said out loud that, in practice, the vast majority of insurance policies do not help in this situation, but will also need direct support from the State, so that viable companies do not go down the drain at this point. I think it is good and important that the committee has also gone through this matter so that we can see clearly what is behind it in that situation. Mr. Speaker! We know that this government has already announced that certain measures will be taken. Finnvera's activities, Business Finland, Industrial investment have been highlighted. Unfortunately, however, it is true that the majority of these government-announced measures are more or less loan-shaped instruments, and when we know that the situation in many companies is very difficult and the cashier is empty, the ability or desire to borrow more to get ahead of this situation is very small, and that is why we should now immediately prepare within the government a support package to help these entrepreneurs overcome this most difficult situation, because, Mr President, this is not just about entrepreneurs or their families, but it is about tens of thousands of Finns who are working in this area, and now the majority of them are actually being laid off, and we certainly want this sector to remain in good shape in Finland after this crisis, and without direct action this will not succeed in practice. In other words, this means action on the tax side, this means an interest-free payment period for taxation, for example compensation of the employer's side expenses on a fixed-term basis, now to highlight a few examples. That message from the field, Mr President, is quite clear: entrepreneurs now need support here and quickly. However, I cannot fail to say that it took several weeks for this whole proposal to be submitted to this House itself, and this was not a very broad government proposal, so I would have expected that by now we would be better aware of what other concrete measures are going to be taken in this House, because there are still many entrepreneurs wondering how they are going to get away with this next week and next month, and I think it is reasonable that the government should immediately announce what kind of support measures will be taken to deal with the widespread wave of bankruptcy this spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u10	Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have carried out an in-depth work on this government proposal on an urgent basis. I would like to raise a few points which have already been raised in this Chamber yesterday during the referral debate. First of all, the question of whether this special provision in the Mara Act would have been an alternative to amending the Act on communicable diseases so that such a suspension decision would have been taken on the basis of regional rules in the event of an epidemic situation or a threat of spread of the epidemic requiring the closure of nutritional movements. This would have resulted in the same result. Now the arguments put forward by the government did not answer the question, which was why a separate provision of the Mara Act had been chosen instead of amending the Act on Diseases. And, admittedly, now that I read the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, it was not quite clear from the explanatory statement that, instead of this regulatory option, there was no two-word amendment to Article 58 of the Act on Disease Control, which apparently would have reached the same conclusion, and even so that the sector's suspension insurance would most likely have covered this situation. Well, this proposal is now on the table, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has indeed taken into account in the report the points raised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in its opinion. That is where I draw attention, first of all, to the fact that the Committee stated that this scope should be linked to exceptional circumstances. It has now been duly taken into account by the committee and, secondly, it required such a regional and time-limit, which is now being implemented through the Government regulations. This territorial delimitation is indeed an opportunity. In its opinion, therefore, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not call for an epidemic situation to take place in which this territorial demarcation necessarily needs to be carried out. In fact, I still believe that the very important issue raised in yesterday's debate is a condition for the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to be subject to legislative action by the government in order to make a reasonable compensation for the losses caused by this ban for entrepreneurs. That is what we called for in this Chamber yesterday. In addition, the Constitutional Committee considered it necessary to make arrangements to mitigate the effects of this ban. This could be, as the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has pointed out, the removal of obstacles to authorisation, for example. All in all, however, the necessary regulation, of which, of course, the entrepreneurs in the sector bear the greatest burden. It is now hoped that the government will take these complementary measures as a matter of urgency, in order to compensate not only for losses, but also for these effects for SMEs in the sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u11	Mr President! In exceptional circumstances, responsible decision-making requires balancing, as is apparent both from the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and from the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. At the same time, we are talking about the right to life, a fundamental right, and, on the other hand, about the jobs of tens of thousands of people. The tourism and restaurant sector is an area that is truly competitive. Especially in cities, profits are rather small. On the other hand, there is a risk of market unilateralisation, especially if such a crisis brings down the smallest of them. At the same time, in addition to taking into account the difficult situation of entrepreneurs, it is important to draw attention to the fact that many of the workers in the sector are also on very low incomes, and we are talking about the jobs of waitresses, chefs and cleaners, among others. For these reasons, among other things, it is now an exceptional responsibility to weigh these various factors and to regulate both legislative and financial transactions in such a way as to minimise the impact on people's livelihoods and other fundamental rights. It is therefore important that, in exceptional circumstances, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs pays strong attention to Article 83 of the Constitution, which states that measures must be precise, clear and justified. It is therefore a pleasure to see that this is also reflected in the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and in the parliamentary debate, because it is indeed the case that we must succeed in this balancing process, otherwise we will not get the best out of this crisis. Support for entrepreneurs has already been called for. It is quite true that these loan instruments are not suitable in many respects, especially for the smallest operators in the catering sector. Attention should therefore be paid to the expansion of social security for entrepreneurs by the government, which will make it easier for entrepreneurs, especially those who find themselves in the most difficult position, such as those who now have to put a complete note on the door with this regulation. The extension has been made in such a way that unemployment benefit can be provided without driving down business by itself, all you have to do is show that the interest rate has had adverse effects on the company's economy. On this point I think it can be said that when the government shuts down restaurants for the sake of the interest rate, the interest rate has indeed brought adverse effects on the income of the company, and that is why the entrepreneur is entitled to unemployment benefit. Here many entrepreneurs have made the observation that, unlike in previous stages, they are for the first time so clearly covered by social security in difficult times. It is therefore important to learn lessons from this now and to consider how we can continue to better ensure that social security also carries entrepreneurs in difficult times. At this point, basic income is a measure that is very necessary in the long term, and which many restaurant entrepreneurs, for example, have highlighted in the contacts with me. There are also other reasons why, for example because of the seasons, the level of income may vary, but in this time, when there is a hurry, the support measures must proceed quickly. Then the new forms of aid will not be the best option, but we must ensure that these support measures are made available quickly. It must be ensured that bureaucracy does not become an obstacle, and that is why attention must now be paid to the fact that, once it has been laid down that entrepreneurs will receive unemployment benefit when the income from the company is depleted, it really will come about and it will happen quickly, because no one's livelihood must be caught up in the fact that queues are too long or bureaucracy is too difficult otherwise. At the same time, we must look beyond the crisis and consider how the restaurant sector and the Finnish society in general will be able to move forward after the worst epidemic has erupted. It is therefore important that we now want to allow for a regional review. If, at the end of the crisis, we find that we still have a need in some geographical areas to hold on to the closure of the nutrients, it is now possible for this to be done by the Government's consideration. This is important in order to ensure that action is effectively targeted in the most limited and effective way possible, which is essential for the spread of communicable diseases. Then, of course, we will come to the economic measures that will help to get us out of this crisis. Of course, it is essential, especially for small restaurant operators in the outermost regions, that people have the purchasing power after the crisis to use services and thus to feed the vitality of the economy. This is one of the reasons why it is important that the recovery after the economic crisis and undoubtedly the necessary structural reforms are not carried out in too much urgency. Let us not be rash about cutting, but let us make this recovery prudently and at the same time take care of that economic recovery as quickly as possible. It is in the interests of these smallest companies that people are really able to use the services. That is why I hope that, now that Parliament is quite united in supporting entrepreneurs, supporting those with low incomes over this crisis, this mentality and solidarity will continue even after the crisis, so that we can get out of that recession together as quickly as possible, so that the Finnish restaurant industry can flourish as soon as possible and that we can get the business wheels running as they have been under normal conditions, preferably even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u12	Mr President! This government proposal to shut down the food business from customers is important as soon as possible, and this is part of the restrictive measures we are taking to slow down the spread of this epidemic so that our health care system is not overloaded at the same time. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has raised a number of points which the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has also sought to respond to, and the most important of these is that this proposal should be linked to these exceptional circumstances and that this limitation should also be taken into account at regional and time level. These comments by the Constitutional Committee have led to the fact that this government proposal should then be supplemented by a supplementary regulation, and in that sense I also agree with the light wonders, if you could say, as to why this was not started in the first place by amending the articles of the Act on communicable diseases, in which case, in particular, it would have been possible for this suspension insurance, which many companies have paid, perhaps to have been easier to bring into force. That is why I am returning to this amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, and I would like to send out a signal in the direction of the government that we have many other companies with this suspension insurance, which would require changes to the Act on communicable diseases, so that decisions can be taken to drive these businesses down. For example, such entrepreneurs as hairdressers, cosmetologists, foot nurses, physiotherapists, masseuses are currently doing such work that they really cannot be within a meter of the customer to perform its work, but are directly, so to speak, being on the customer’s skin. That is why I really hope, and I have already signalled this point in the direction of Minister Lintilä, that it would be worth considering now how to share these risks to business and how to share these costs with the private sector, because these entrepreneurs have been paying these suspension insurance for years. Many of those insurance policies also contain an epidemic clause and would come into force when the infectious disease law was used in the explanatory statement and slightly refined. However, as has also been pointed out in this proposal, by taking these decisions in this way the suspension insurance cannot be used in this situation. The exception here is the permission to sell out, i.e. the exclusion of customers, and on the other hand the staff restaurants are also excluded from this proposal. Perhaps a few more words about these economic effects, which the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in particular has drawn attention to and pointed out about these financial compensations, that firstly they must be sufficient and, secondly, that we do not, for example, create competition neutrality problems in this sector. It would also be very important to understand that the mere fact that an entrepreneur can now benefit from this new social security system, i.e. unemployment benefit, does not in any way cover all the costs of a business. It is mainly that the entrepreneur is able to take care of his own life situation and perhaps support his family, but this really does not mean that the many different fixed costs involved in the company can be managed in this way. I fear that, despite the fact that an amending budget has now been adopted, which tries to provide aid through these loan guarantees, it does not necessarily bring aid to all companies, perhaps this type of company, which is directly on the customer surface. I am also afraid of this wave of bankruptcy, which has been expressed with concern by a number of colleagues here. There are certainly regional differences, which should be taken into account and understood that in some areas nutrition movements may indeed be very few. In that sense, for example, this possibility of selling out in a sparsely populated area may not be enough to compensate for the loss of customers, which will then occur from the actual restaurant premises and, for example, there will not necessarily be any exploitation of the sale in sparsely populated areas. But, Mr President, it is of the utmost importance that this law be put into effect as soon as possible and that the regulation relating to it be put into effect, precisely because of the protection of the lives and health of the people, the most important thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u13	Irade the Talman! I would also like to thank the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for their good work. — This is a tough and heavy measure, which will have major financial implications for these individual entrepreneurs, and it is therefore essential that we give them a view over this pit, and also for those landlords who, to some extent, play a key role here, that they too see that it is worthwhile to hold onto these tenants, so that they may also exist after this pit, because this is in many ways a different crisis than the crises of the beginning of 2008 or the early 1990s. They didn't know how deep and how long the hole was. Now we know that there is an important external motive here, but we can make some fairly informed estimates of the length of this. One can assume that the situation will return to normal if not now so much better in just a few months' time, and then it is essential to keep these companies alive so that they will be able to act as employers and, at the same time, as small motors and locomotives of the economy. We have considered compensation mechanisms here, for example, the fact that entrepreneurs are now also receiving unemployment benefit, but it is, of course, just as Mr Essayah said that it will certainly help individual entrepreneurs but not those businesses, and we need them to be alive after this crisis, after a few months, hopefully a short hole, when we also need direct subsidies to help them. There will be some of them in the additional budget, but as Mr Marttinen said there was a need for more. As far as taxation is concerned, there were some presentations and assistance in that regard early last week, so that some things have been done, but they will probably have to come back to that. A few important points have been raised in this report: In order to make the situation easier for entrepreneurs, I think it would be good to consider this sale out, even if it is to be extended on a temporary basis. It will improve the conditions for action during this crisis. I hope that will be considered. It is essential that we also get this phase-out through now. Finland is a relatively large country, and the crisis is moving at a different pace across the country, and it is also likely to withdraw at a different pace, so it is very important that these restrictions can be lifted as soon as the situation allows, which means that this time and regional delimitation is absolutely essential and should then be implemented in the manner proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u14	Mr President! In the Finnish Party spirit, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has produced a report on the temporary amendment of the Act on accommodation and food service activities, which would exclude food businesses from customers, but would still allow the sale of products. This was a great effort by the committee, but a thousand times the effort is now being made for the entrepreneurs who will be affected by this in the next few months. There is a situation in the background. There is no time here for a legal basis for the bracket. Nutritional movements have already weakened. Let us hope that this decision will then clarify this situation and then find some medicines for this situation. The measures must be strictly limited and precise, but it is clear that this is a major blow to the livelihoods and companies will fall. It's obvious. Some will survive, and government measures will be needed to keep life going and work will continue in a few months' time. Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has assessed insurance cover in the situation, and so it is that only a small part of the suspension insurance covers this situation. It is now honest to say. For this reason, reasonableness must be required of all parties in the coming months, for example in lease agreements. From this Parliament, it is worth sending a strong message to all actors that it is time for consultation and conciliation. It is in the interests of all parties, both in the short and the long view. In the same way, red tape must be relaxed and authorisation procedures should be reduced for the sale of food and drink. It is also the key message from us from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Entrepreneurs must also be provided with compensation from the state treasury for this situation and with means to support their livelihood. And the service in these matters must now be made to play: when entrepreneurs are in contact with things, you have to answer the phone. This regional differentiation should be taken into account when legislation is dismantled. As noted, Finland is long and wide and this infection also behaves differently across Finland. It is now appropriate to give all the strong support to the entrepreneurs who are now in the front line taking on the financial shocks that this fight against the virus requires.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u15	Mr President! In this report, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy places a great deal of emphasis on the protection of human health, while at the same time stressing concern about the plight of the restaurant sector and highlighting a number of aspects and comments on how to mitigate the impact and compensate for the loss. Of course, this model of legislation, in which the intake rations and the opening hours of the staff restaurants continue, is in itself such an approach that weighs the benefits and disadvantages. However, I would like to point out that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy points out that the situation of communicable diseases may change very quickly and therefore calls for proactive measures. So here is a really critical situation with this pandemic, and it must be taken decisively in advance, and this law, of course, will provide tools that will make a very significant contribution to limiting the disease. Now, with the committee's examination, this proposal has changed so that the closure of restaurant activities needs to be specified regionally by a Government decree. This does not mean, of course, that this should be done in an area at a time when the disease appears. On the contrary, predictability is still at stake, and this allows for a proactive restriction of restaurant activities everywhere. Instead, this approach is a good one, especially at a time when our situation sometimes improves and we, with different testing and monitoring and when the epidemic breaks down, will find ourselves in such a situation that these restrictions can be lifted. That is certainly where the regional perspective is highlighted. This call for a regulation, according to the statement made by the Prime Minister at this evening's press conference, will lead to a clear delay in its implementation. With this in mind, I would point out that, while we decision-makers have a great responsibility to protect human health and there are clear decisions and a clear will to do so, we must nevertheless act on the basis of the law, and that is why this is very specific, and that is why there may sometimes be certain delays here in order to get the political will to work. This all underlines that not only do we have a responsibility, indeed all of us, but also the citizens and businesses and all the players have a responsibility to act here to protect each other against this disease, and there is no reason to expect the law to impose a place on us, but it is desirable to close down and promote those physical restrictions. Even if the law still allows you to go to a bar, there is no reason to go there, and even if the law will allow you to pick-up and staff restaurants in the future, it is equally necessary to be very careful in this activity to ensure that the risks are minimised in practice and in all activities. Similarly, in this financial sector, although it is proposed here and it is important that we take various measures to alleviate the financial distress of restaurant entrepreneurs and find out how to compensate, this too is a matter in which all landlords and all players in the whole system should now play the same goal, which is to overcome this disease as quickly as possible and with minimal damage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u16	Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy dealt with this amendment of the law on a timely basis, and now it was also the President's wish that, by 1.30 p.m., this debate should be brought to an end as well, so that things can be rolled over as quickly as possible, so that a brief speech can be made, for my part, in between here and there. It is, of course, acceptable that the same kind of legislative drafting cannot be carried out in such a timely manner, but I think that this is a very balanced one between these threats to health and the drafting of legislation. It should be borne in mind that other companies are also faced with these types of total business stops, so this is now one of the very key issues for both restaurant entrepreneurs and other entrepreneurs, and it is also the case, as we point out in this first statement, that we can also involve not only public authorities, but also financiers, banks and insurance companies and other financial entities. I would also like to say that, on the basis of the situation picture that is now being updated in Europe, it does not seem that easy to deal with this problem of infectious disease. This flatten the curve model has also been criticised for being very hopeful as long as the graphics do not yet have the correct data. According to the news, in Germany too, this really difficult situation is being brought about by slowing down the disease, and even at its worst it is still beyond the carrying capacity of health care. I'm sure we'll find out more about this, but this is a risk. That is why, in Germany, the Minister of Health has proposed the use of telecommunications identification data. We're still in the middle of this conversation. In any case, the situation picture will be updated in such a way that we should be able to identify and then communicate with all those who are infected. That is why I believe that we will continue to have to make various legislative changes on a rather short time-frame here too, and it may be that we will also have to return to business. In any case, it would be good to recognise that these measures are not necessarily enough, and we need to consider how we can genuinely track the supply chains in addition to these measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u17	Mr President! Indeed, with this government proposal, we are in a very strong way, albeit on a fixed-term basis, but in a very strong way, restricting the pursuit of restaurant activities and thus interfering with the freedom to conduct a business. This is a tough move, but on the other hand it underscores the seriousness of this situation. After all, we live under exceptional circumstances, and the corona virus is a serious challenge to the lives and health of Finns. That is what this is all about, and that is why such a drastic measure is justified. At the same time as addressing business opportunities in such a violent manner, it is right and reasonable to examine ways of helping entrepreneurs affected by this restriction by compensating for these damage in some reasonable way. This proposal for a statement by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy draws attention to this issue as follows: ‘The Board of Directors requires that it ascertains how reasonable compensation for damage caused by the income and operating conditions of restaurant entrepreneurs isimplemented in order to ensure that financial losses are distributed in a fair manner and in a reasonable manner between general government, Jaedel:‘The Commission requires that the government not be This is an important issue and the government has a very strong will here. Mr President! Even in this debate, the legal basis for this proposal has been raised in a few speeches, and in particular the aspect of insurance cover for companies — or should I say, insurance cover — which is supposed to be the question of why, in this case, the Act on communicable diseases has not been used as the basis of the Act, thereby enabling these entrepreneurs to receive compensation for their suspension insurance. This is a good question, and answers have already been received here, and this report has also responded to it, but I would like to read it separately here because it is important. Indeed: ‘In any event, on the basis of a report received by Discontinuation insurance is not designed for a global epidemic, with large-scale and long-term business interruptions or restrictions. This underlines the need for different types of support measures for companies subject to restrictive measures. “ Finally, Mr President, it should be stressed that this is a matter of urgency. Every day in this matter counts. It is a matter of protecting people's lives and health, and it is therefore important that this proposal be put into effect as soon as possible. I would like to thank both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for their good, swift handling. In just the same way, then, of course, the situation must be closely monitored, and we must also be able to begin to dismantle this situation quickly when the epidemic situation allows it, possibly on a regional scale. I'm sure we all hope with all our hearts that this moment will be soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u18	Mr President! This has been a bit of a three-step process: it is thought that at the beginning we talked mainly about the health crisis, then about safety and security of supply, and at the latest it is becoming clear to everyone at this stage that this is also, above all, an economic crisis. I thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs, which have operated very quickly. The work done on this schedule is commendable. Thank you in particular to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which Mr Kalli mentioned here and which was presented earlier by Mr Vartiainen. They have taken particular account of the economic impact and stressed the need for support for restaurant entrepreneurs. However, on a general level, I wonder how society can be so incapacitated in an exceptional situation. If we consider that this issue is now being thrown back and forth here too, how can it be that the current Act on Preparedness and the Act on Disease Control do not bend in such an exceptional situation, but that the virus and its partner, the bureaucracy, already have the time to establish an alliance, and then Parliament will have to temporarily amend such a separate law which, in this situation, affects accommodation and catering activities? This report mentions regional solutions and they may not be terribly recommended, even if possible. In other words, if restaurants work differently on the other side of the country than they do here, it also causes internal movement, which, of course, is something we must try to avoid in this situation. The tourism and restaurant sector, of course, suffers very seriously from this decision, but the fight against the corona virus is now the most important thing so that life can continue normally. One example of this bureaucracy is the sale of out of the market, which is not possible for more than 5.5 percentage points of alcohol, such as the sale of wine. However, it should be pointed out that outsourcing is important for both the entrepreneur and the worker and also for the wider group. When you consider that the general recommendation for a home thief is 72 hours — and, of course, such totally unpredictable crises have caused it to seem rather trivial at this stage — this exit has allowed, let me say, such a village resource. If you take an example of my own village, then the service station there, which has mostly provided normal service facilities, reacted some weeks ago by starting to supply food to people’s homes, elderly people and other needs, and this is of course very important in this situation when normal life is in any case limited. However, it would be good to get to a situation where society could do a little better in a preventive way. Now, many of the proposals are reactions either to what other countries have done or to the current situation that is affecting Finland at any given time. This is certainly something where we can all improve our activities. With regard to the economy, it must be said that small and medium-sized enterprises, and their staff in particular, are in a very bad situation in this situation, and this is not just about the accommodation and restaurant sector, but in this situation, as the committee also mentions in this report, we should consider ways of improving this situation quickly. Companies with fewer than 250 people in particular are in a very tight place. The United Kingdom, Germany and Denmark have already introduced quite exceptional measures which would certainly not be considered in any normal situation, different forms of pay subsidies. I therefore recommend that you refer to the amending budget initiative 4, where there is a little similar question where companies employing fewer than 250 people would be compensated for their suffering in this situation of interest. And then, of course, in the same context, this crisis support for self-employed entrepreneurs raised by Finnish entrepreneurs should be implemented. Up to now, the government's efforts have been more than 15 billion, but I am sure we can say that this will not, unfortunately, remain, and I hope that we will have a good spirit of cooperation in the future and, in particular, that these desirable and necessary financial measures can be taken as soon as possible to safeguard the position of businesses and their staff and that society can act as quickly as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u19	Mr President! Indeed, the starting point for dealing with this whole crisis in this legislation is to reduce people's physical contacts. This is the starting point of the crisis, for example, the bars of the Austrian ski resorts and so on. This is a pretty tough law for current business activities, restricting business activities. Thank you very much to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Today was a long day, and many things were considered here. This will limit the number of restaurants to operate, but will allow them to get out of business, i.e. take-away. It was also quite clear here that alcohol law and its current situation, i.e. we have around 10,000, or 8400, liquor restaurants, of which only 300 have a licence to sell out these sales under current alcohol legislation. At least we saw at this point that we should facilitate that legislation and be quick to take action, as has already been mentioned here in previous speeches, but this will then require rapid action from the authorities. The second point is, of course, these staff restaurants, communities, foundations, and so on. At least as a community restaurant, I see all the public limited companies and others’ own restaurants, their activities. It has just been discussed that epidemic legislation also applies to them and other hygiene provisions. But for rural residents, of course, in that sparsely populated area, many service stations serve as staff restaurants for several different companies, so where then in that sparsely populated area will this kind of daily food be found? It is, of course, a good idea to discuss whether such places are, on the other hand, human resources restaurants. On the other hand, one’s own concern is that such staff restaurants would not then become so-called normal nutritional conditions: by nightfall, they would sit at the diner and then become... So, as was the case in that committee's opinion, there must be a precise explanation of this. In view of the fact that there is a restriction on the authorities, the Act on communicable diseases has also been raised in many areas. So, for example, in suspension insurance there is a provision that when an official decision is closed, then the terms of this insurance allow for compensation. Of course I did, but as Mr Kalli rightly pointed out in this report — and in committee too — there are quite a few people who have the premium epidemic insurance, and that is also a bad one in this pandemic, which is a large global pandemic. So it’s mostly suitable for this sort of one place, one restaurant even for the salmonella issue, that it’s restaurant cleaned and there’s going to be an interruption and so on, but it’s fitting in to this was bad. However, when the authorities take this restriction decision, as is now being done, this is indeed of financial concern and harm to many companies if there are about 10,000 companies and we have about 100,000 employees. Our position was precisely to compensate for the financial disadvantage in a reasonable and balanced way. It is, of course, a matter for the government to consider. Of course, in this amending budget, which will come later, there are already measures to support these companies in these interest rate cases. Usually when this kind of support for companies is given or defined, then it can easily flow into another’s pocket rather than into the company’s livelihood and benefit to whom it is intended. In other words, at the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, there was a wide-ranging debate about the fact that this should indeed involve the various sectors — the bank, the tax authority, the insurance company, including the legislation of the authorities — in cooperation with regard to these points, which are the drawbacks for the private restaurant operator. Mr President! One important thing is indeed this reduction in bureaucracy, which has moved forward here. But this is now for us this kind of law practice, a pretty tough kind of one, today, and perhaps I myself would estimate that we should further improve on this sort of exceptional occasion also the interaction between the governments and the preparation of the legal proposals. It needs to make quite substantial improvements. I hope they will be reported on and actually recorded in these various processes, because in this process too, now that the Constitutional Committee has tabled a proposal for this regionalisation, it will come through the regulation and will probably be delayed — or it may be if we act flexibly that it does not delay the entry into force of the law, it will still have to be seen. In other words, it should be possible to record such situations with a view to bringing this legislation into force as quickly as possible. Yes, I myself am now appealing to companies to suspend their own restaurant activities and to take care of the health of Finns and Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u20	Ärade talman, Mr President! I do not envy the difficult task of the Finnish Government to fight the spread of the corona, which is indeed important. I understand that they are under enormous pressure and pressure, and exceptional circumstances are something that none of us have experienced before. But perhaps the role of Parliament is particularly important, and I have been rather concerned that I think we are quite easily stripping off Parliament in a situation in which we should specifically control, discuss on a daily basis the scenarios that this situation requires and what the future holds.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u21	Mr. Speaker! In addition to a fruitful debate, there are only four points: Firstly, with regard to this proposal in relation to the Act on communicable diseases: it would have been, of course, for many reasons, if there were more time, a more correct route, that there would have been additional powers and that there would then have been a regional allocation of these measures, even on a restaurant-specific basis, but this would not be possible in the event of a pandemic of this kind. However, this was added to the heading that this restriction is to prevent the spread of infectious disease. It is a direct link to the Act on communicable diseases and, in a way, it means that it is now possible to take a measure at national level which would take place at regional or municipal level in the Act on communicable diseases, in that sense this may also be appropriate to some of these conditions of insurance in the debate if there is a more general force Majeure-type situation, in which case the external factor will cause the activity to be cut off. Secondly, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has rightly drawn attention to this need to negotiate and to seek to involve the various parties in these reasonable solutions, such as the moderation of lease agreements. It is worth taking as an example what was quite successful in the early 2000s, this so-called debt settlement project. Financial institutions were able to agree to material debt reliefs, even partial forgivenesss, on a voluntary basis, while, at the same time, legislative measures, maximum periods, obsolescence periods and so on were also needed, but this worked. In this situation, in order to ensure a fair distribution of the various problems and the losses and burdens caused by this crisis, we should seek similar sectoral solutions and, of course, the government and Parliament also have a role to play in mobilising them. The third point then, about that model regulation: It will give flexibility to this law so that this territorial scope can be changed as necessary or in the event of a change in the epidemic, and then it will be possible in time to decide earlier if part of Finland is mature enough to avoid any further need for this more drastic ban. This does not mean that we now need more time. A Government decree stating that the whole country is now, at least initially, an area of application is to be adopted as soon as the President of the Republic signs and confirms this law, that is to say, at the same time, the Council of State sitting on the same day, which will also bring the regulation and the law into force in the whole country, perhaps in principle now on Saturday. Perhaps there have been some misunderstandings about these complementary issues. These are, after all, the points that have been made in these committees' opinions and reports that need to be clarified over time. Well, then, the fourth point is that these economic arrangements, the reasonable solutions from the state side, are becoming a significant improvement with the additional budget, and this is where, exceptionally, the Committee on Finance is going to make a really bold addition to these powers of Business Finland and the Elyses, multiplying them from the government's proposal to mobilise these compensatory measures quickly and effectively. But it also requires that these Government regulations and instructions for use concerning the use of this money be specified in such a way that they are suitable for dealing with this particular crisis, and that it is certainly a matter for the next two weeks, that such refined guidelines be achieved and that they be made easier for businesses that are facing problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u22	Chairman of the Committee Vartiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-25-ps-34.u23	Mr President! Thank you to the government, to Parliament and to my own committee for bringing this forward quickly. I am pleased to see that there is a great deal of sympathy in this Chamber for the thinking that has been represented here by the committee. Perhaps in a jovial spirit we could mention the sale of alcohol by this representative, Mr Junnila, and also by Pirttilahti. It would be a good thing if this situation were to be met exceptionally. In a way, it could be said that it would probably affect the deepest feelings of many Finnish voters if emergency crisis powers were used to ensure that alcohol would certainly be available in this village reserve spirit, even in crisis situations. However, the committee did not exactly go into this. Finally, just a few brief comments on these debates and the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. They're bigger things than you might think. The first is that all these health benefits, although crucial, must always be weighed against these economic losses, because weak finances and public finances also mean the loss of human lives as weaker health services, indirectly but absolutely inevitable. That is why, although we understand the urgency of this government, we hope that the government will continue to assess the importance of these chosen measures in the light of some sort of cost-benefit analysis and will also assess if this is prolonged, other and alternative regulatory instruments such as regulation of the largest number of customers in the restaurant space rather than closure. Today, it was not possible to weigh such alternatives in the normal way in this committee hearing. Then the second, blessed end: here we highlight these balanced solutions in that first effort. This is an extremely difficult matter because this position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — which, of course, would have been our position, even if it was not specifically justified by the Constitution — is therefore creating a claim for compensation in a reasonable way for all who suffer from this. It sounds easy to say, and it is thought that then only the purse strings will be eased, but on the other hand it must be done in a sustainable way for public finances and also in an economically sustainable way. Not only is money being blamed for everything where it has been lost, but it is being understood that there must also be some real economic competitive situation and the fact that restaurants that are more flexible in adapting to the new situation deserve some competitive advantage. In other words, this must not be unduly costly for public finances either. That is why, Mr President, this law is, in fact, extremely demanding for the government and its officials in our country. Of course, this situation is demanding for restaurant entrepreneurs and their employees, but from this point of view, the decision-makers must remember that this is where the difficult work of the government begins. Mr President! - Thank you.
