ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u1	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u2	Mr President! The Government proposes to amend the law on temporary limitation of certain legal acts of municipalities and joint municipal boards in social welfare and health care, the so-called restriction law. The proposed changes relate to the reform of the social security system prepared by Prime Minister Sanna Marin's government. The aim is to contribute to ensuring that the potential of new regions of society is not tied up before the reform comes into force. Sote regions must decide on services throughout their territory in accordance with the needs of the regions and on an equal footing. The proposed changes concern the extension of the authorisation procedure for investments and the consequences of nullity. They are based on the problems raised in the authorisation procedure for investments and on those raised by the funders of social investment. It is proposed to amend the restriction law in such a way that a project carried out by a municipality or a joint municipal group through a company owned alone or jointly by a municipality is also treated as a project carried out by a municipality or a joint municipal group itself in the context of the authorisation procedure. At present, more and more investment in social services is being made in the form of companies. At the same time, the way in which investments are carried out could not, with the changes to be presented, decide whether or not to apply the authorisation procedure. The authorisation procedure applies equally to all investment projects of more than 5 million. In addition to the extension of the authorisation procedure, it is also proposed to amend the sanctions relating to the nullity of unlawful agreements. If the invalidity is due to the activities of the municipality, the joint municipal authority or their company, it is reasonable that they should also be responsible for the consequences of the invalidity. They have the best information on whether or not the authorisation thresholds are exceeded, so the proposed responsibility is justified and the responsibility cannot be left entirely to project sponsors. The intention is for the law to enter into force as soon as possible, as projects are currently under way, which will also be implemented in the form of a company. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u3	Madam President! Minister and good colleagues and others present! After all, this is the continuation of the restriction law that has already entered into force in July 2016. At that time the matter was presented to Parliament and restrictions were reported to be temporary. Now we have to ask how long this so-called temporary restriction legislation can only go on and on. Is it possible, Mr President, to chain this up indefinitely? After all, the Government has proposed and Parliament has already decided, during this current government, that the law on restrictions will continue to apply until the end of 2025. Is there a “temporary ” term meaning“ about ten years ”? Can this be applied in many other areas, so that temporary legislation is always a way forward? It would be important for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also to evaluate this carefully before deciding whether to proceed with it. The proposal states that ‘lawrestrictions also apply to high-costinvestments in social and health care buildings’, and asks how long municipalities It is therefore a good thing that this bill now amends this restriction law to the extent that a project carried out through a company owned alone or jointly by a municipality and a joint municipal group is also comparable to a project carried out by a municipality or a joint municipal group in the authorisation procedure for investments in social welfare and health care. Of course, the question still has to be asked whether regional services will remain at an adequate level in this way. What is the future of rural cities during this ten-year period of legislation on restrictions, not to mention the situation of rural services? I myself live in a municipality where restrictive measures have prevented the return of medical services to this day in practice and seem to prevent them to the future. By the way, this social welfare reform, presented by the left-wing government, will not return medical services to the countryside, unfortunately. When the Minister stated that this is closely linked to the reform of the administration of social and health services, it is certainly appropriate to speak more broadly about social welfare reform in this debate. Katri, still President of the Centre in June My Kulmuni stated that ‘it will not happen’,and Minister Leppä said that‘the Government Programme has not agreed on any such That is what Leppä said in June. He also stated: ‘We want a major reform to be achieved. However, we do not accept the side plots that Kiuru and the SDP have built. If the province of Etelä-Savo is dissolved, the central government will be dissolved.’ A hard promise — it remains to be seen whether this will happen. Yesterday, when there was nothing more interesting to do, I listened to the Espoo City Council meeting. There Mr Guzenina spoke very hard about the war. Mr Guzenina did not see anything worth defending in this left-wing government war. The only thing was that he said that here he must speak with the voice of Espoo. But does he then act against the situation in Espoo and Uusimaa in Parliament? He spoke about the critical points of the bill: funding is unsustainable, the financing solution is not acceptable to Mr Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u8	Mr President! The purpose of this proposal is to ensure that, before the entry into force of the social welfare reform, the possibilities for future provinces to decide on services in accordance with the needs of the inhabitants of the region as a whole and in an equal and cost-effective manner would not be hindered. In the past, restrictions have already been laid down to regulate long-term and large-scale outsourcing projects by municipalities and joint municipal authorities. These restrictions were already imposed during the previous government and have been further tightened during this government. The law is now proposed to be amended so that a project carried out through a company owned by a municipality and a joint municipal authority is also treated in the authorisation procedure as a project of a municipality and a joint municipal authority, i.e. the aim being to close a loophole for municipal companies. Large and long-term outsourcing agreements can at worst become very expensive and difficult for future regions and their inhabitants. They can prevent the development and integration of the service system for a long time and they can take up a lion's share of the new province's budget for many years. It is therefore appropriate to ensure that contracts concluded by municipalities and joint municipal boards and also by municipal companies contain a notice of termination. This will prevent the end of the world in which, on the eve of the social welfare reform, expensive and in a hurry, inappropriate, long-term outsourcing projects are being carried out. Mr President! The restrictions concern the extensive acquisition of social and health care services from and contracts with a private service provider. The outsourcing agreement must therefore contain a notice clause if the value of the contract exceeds 15 % of the annual expenditure on social and health care in charge of organising the municipality or joint municipal authority and the contract is valid for longer than the end of 2025. There is therefore no ban on outsourcing, but the outsourcing agreements must include a notice clause to increase the scope for the future provinces to organise services. In addition, the limitations of the law apply to high-cost investments in the construction of social works. These too have been under this restriction law in the past. The aim is therefore not to prevent investment but to make it transparent. The aim is to prevent the possible construction of a building stock that is not suitable for the future region and the so-called overinvestment before the reform. This is a precaution. Most of the investment projects submitted have been relevant and necessary, and most of the permits have been granted and will certainly continue to be granted. Therefore, the necessary and good construction projects will not be prevented and certainly must not be prevented. However, Mr President, the proposed clarification of the restriction law is therefore necessary. However, I hope that the restriction law will soon become unnecessary and that the reform of the social security system will be completed, and it is true that the transitional period cannot go on indefinitely. We also need to put a stop to this cat-mouse game, where, while the social welfare reform is delayed, municipalities are making problematic decisions and the state is trying to prevent them by means of legislation. I also appeal to the decision-makers that these games should be over by now. I very much hope that this round will bring the reform of social services to the end and that the attention of the whole nation's social and health service operators and decision-makers will finally be focused on the structural problems of the system in order to develop the content of social and health services. But, Mr President, as a comment on the previous speech, there is no and there will not be a social reform that would not be criticised from a certain angle and in some part of Finland. But can anyone in this Chamber say that we do not need a social welfare reform that creates wider responsibilities and creates a stronger public organiser, that we do not need more smoother service chains, faster access to care and a more cost-effective service system, that we do not need better social and health services for all Finns across Finland? For this we also need this restructuring, although it alone does not solve all the problems of social and health services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u10	Madam President! The purpose and objective of this restriction law is in itself a good one, i.e. to ensure that the reform of social and health care structures does not make it difficult for these future regions to decide on services in the region as a whole according to the needs of their inhabitants and on an equal footing. The Temporary Restriction Act, which was prepared for the completion of the then social welfare reform, came into force in the summer of 2016, and it will be in force until the end of 2025. These restrictions on the law have already been tightened three times in the past, and now this proposal has been brought before us before Parliament has even received this social reform. Of course, this government draft is already on the table. But I wonder whether instead of amending these individual restrictions, an overall review of the functioning of the restriction law should be carried out to better and more comprehensively respond to this ultimate purpose of the law as a whole. It is quite true, as Mr Sarkkinen said here, that there is a need for social welfare reform, and it is certainly very problematic for regions and municipalities that there is always a need to prepare for new kinds of proposals. These restrictions, which we are now dealing with, do indeed create considerable problems and political disputes in many areas as to how we are going to proceed. Unfortunately, this time, too, the Government's draft of social services contains problems for which I fear that this is not a definite step forward this time, but at least in a constructive spirit I myself wish to take this view.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u11	Madam President! The Government's proposal to temporarily restrict certain legal acts of municipalities and joint municipal boards is now under discussion. The intention is not to complicate social and health care reforms under the Government Programme, but there are a lot of things here: outsourcing agreements can have an impact, and investment, which is mainly construction, and there is a limit of 5 million, which means that if the project without VAT is more than 5 million, then you have to ask permission from the higher authority. This has been criticised to some extent: the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has criticised, municipalities have criticised, hospital districts have criticised. The most important thing is that, if necessary, when it is necessary to build, you have to be able to build — of course, that is clear. However, I think it is important that these university hospitals should also be highlighted. It is very important to us that we have university hospitals, which are indeed needed. Locally, when you think about health stations, if this temporary exception and exception continues and continues and things do not happen in a reasonable direction, what is the point of building health centres? When we talk about social reform, why don't we talk about social welfare? We now have quite a lot of things well, but only those things that are wrong with us should be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u12	Madam President! Many colleagues here have drawn attention to the fact that these restrictive measures, their temporary nature, can at least be called into question when we have chained these legislative proposals one after the other. As Mr Räsänen has said here, we understand that the aim of the law is good, but now it is this way that we are always bringing in tightening regulations, especially at the moment when we do not have that social act on the table. I understand that during the last period these deadlines were extended, because we were in the middle of a social show and work in this house, but at the moment I feel that we are, as it were, preparing for a proposal in advance, which is still only in the consultation process. Mr Sarkkinen said very well that there will hardly ever be such a social act that everywhere and everyone would be happy with it, but, on the other hand, when he painted the end of the world, which might be loose in the municipalities, if we did not have this restriction law, then of course the question arises as to what kind of laws are being brought forward if the municipalities have such low confidence in the same decision-makers from their own parties who are here in Parliament, that the municipal court does not feel confident that there will be a demonstration, even this time, where, for example, in rural communities in sparsely populated areas, there will be peaceful thinking: yes, our services will be preserved, our elderly housing services will remain in our village and our health status here will remain. In that sense, however, this is, of course, an indication of the reality of how things are seen at the moment in the municipalities. It has been a shame to see South Savo in that direction, which is currently facing a full civil war on the subject. In fact, it seems as if the seed of disunity has already been built inside the whole show that I find it incompetently put in traffic. I don’t know — here I can give you a free tip with my freedom of speech that we make a whole province of Savo, put North and South Savo together, so that we can get this thing together, too,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u15	Madam President! Our current system of social services does not work seamlessly at the moment, although it does have a lot of good in it. Challenges occur both in densely populated cities and in sparsely populated municipalities. Although the problems are not the same, the reason for them is that systems and service chains no longer meet today's needs. Several different service systems, ict systems and treatment paths have been formed. Not all variations are successful and regional differences are visible. At worst, an expensive system has been created, which also makes it difficult for a municipal citizen to enter, find his own place in it, or where employees sometimes have to stretch under too great a workload. Underneath all this, the most important object of services is easily drowned, and it is a human being. Access to high-quality, timely and well-targeted care is understandablely challenging if resources are insufficient or incorrectly allocated, and all care should always be based primarily on need and timeliness. Costs increase when these do not come true. Pending a change in the structure of social services, the development work in municipalities and regions has also come to a halt, because there is no information and certainty about where to go next. On the other hand, at the same time, services have been centralised and some services requiring special expertise have even been driven half-way into primary health care without professional competence following. There has already been an unwarranted balance between responsibility and funding. Madam President! We are at the edge of change, and the change in this scale will undoubtedly take its time. There should be no doubt that concerns are now being raised about the government parties, for that is what should be done. This is the only way to bring about successful reforms. The main task of the social welfare reforms is to reduce welfare and health inequalities and to improve access to basic services and timeliness. That is why the reform is being carried out, and to this end we must all work hard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u16	President! According to the Government Programme, the government is implementing the restructuring of social welfare and health services, that is, the much-said social welfare reform. It is based on vital objectives, just as Mr Koponen said: to reduce differences in welfare and health — that is, the differences that are unfortunately part of the everyday life of society — to ensure equal and high-quality social and health services — which are also not taken for granted in the regions of Finland — to improve accessibility and meet the challenges of social change and also to curb the explosion of costs on the hands. The reform will transfer social and health services to larger self-service areas called regions. Well, we all know this. At this point, I really hope that the reform will go all the way to the end. Mr Heinonen, I would see that Finns deserve not only a social welfare reform but above all decision-makers who are able to implement it. With the Coalition Party, Mr Heinonen, this issue did not succeed last season. You brought to the table elements that collided with the Constitution, which was unfortunate. President! The purpose of this proposal is to ensure that no decisions are taken prior to the entry into force of the social welfare reform to make it more difficult for future provinces to decide on services in the whole territory of the province, in line with the needs of their inhabitants and on an equal footing. The provisions of the law would continue to allow sudden repairs, such as those provided for by the regulations of the supervisory authorities, as well as measures relating to the annual maintenance of buildings. This is a very important point. It therefore takes account of the realism of living life in the fact that exceptional situations continue to arise — that is, situations that need to be reacted immediately and quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u17	President! The report received criticism from experts, which was in many respects well-founded. HUS, for example, stated that maintaining the condition of dismissal would increase the rent costs and that the exemption threshold of EUR 5 million was too low. However, it may be possible to circumvent this by splitting up procurement into smaller entities. In addition, the opinions stated that it should be made clear more clearly that the restriction and authorisation procedure for investment concerns only companies owned by municipalities and joint municipal boards alone and not joint ventures with private individuals. It is a good thing that the various parties have been listened to, and the explanatory statement of the proposal has been supplemented in that respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u18	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the council! I wear masks on my face because according to THL's instructions, flexing the mask back and forth is not a good thing, but must be on the face all the time, too. Mr President! The restriction law has now been in force for more than four years, since July 2016. The purpose of the law is clear in itself and the general rule is justified in order to avoid partial optimization. The problem, however, is that the timetable for the reform of social services has become much longer. When asked how long these things can be put into effect over and over again, these prospects for a long time. There's gonna be a war reform somewhere in the future. I would like to ask Minister Kiuru a very specific question about this war. When we have a corona, which is today's hottest subject and the deepest pit of all, where are we today and in the coming autumn as well as when these social welfare laws arrive at us in the Committee on Social Affairs, what are the realistic views that this war is progressing? What I understand is that in the municipalities officials and operators are in a somewhat helpless state. The work of transformation agents is quite challenging at the moment. How to move forward when our biggest crisis is how our people survive, how our society survives, how our economy survives, how employment survives? How do we get past the corona? In that sense, I see that such a huge task, a new whole field of social and health care, is so enormous that we will not succeed. I am very sceptical about this. Mr President! It is now a question of building investments with this bill. The limit of EUR 5 million for these is very low. There is an exemption procedure, but it will increase bureaucracy and the time for processing permits will be several months. In practice, this means that even the necessary building investments may not be made if the Ministry does not consider them necessary or urgent, or the authorisation will not even be applied for when it is considered that after the social welfare reform the payer is different. Should we not invest instead at the moment? Should we not encourage operators to do different construction projects now that we do not have a job when people lose their jobs? Municipalities and operators are afraid to do anything while they are waiting, and I believe that action should now be taken. Mr President! Uusimaa is receiving a separate solution in the social welfare reform, so there is no justification for applying the restriction law for the Hospital District of Helsinki and the City of Uusimaa or the City of Helsinki. In the case of Uusimaa, the exemption procedure will increase red tape completely in vain, although here the need for investments above the EUR 5 million threshold is greatest. It might therefore be necessary to amend the restriction law already at this point in order to exclude the territory of Uusimaa from its scope in order to avoid unnecessary red tape. This could also speed up the processing of derogations for other operators, as the time and resources of the Ministry would not be wasted on processing applications in the Uusimaa region. The second error in the proposal is, in my view, paragraph 6 of the Article, in which the responsibility for the cost of an unlawful contract is imposed solely on the municipality, a joint municipal authority or a company owned by them. The parties to the agreement are certainly aware of the content of the law, so they should not be exempted from the burden of cost liability and imposed solely on the public sector. For this reason, consideration should be given to what will be done with the amendment to Article 6. Mr President! Yesterday's Espoo Council meeting was brought up. I was there myself, and I also brought Espoo’s greetings to the Parliament at the mouth of the Finns. In the view of the City of Espoo, which is easy to agree with, the economic impact of the reform on the City of Espoo is unsustainable. The proposed reform, which moves towards three-tier governance, undermines the operating conditions of growing cities. The cuts resulting from the financing criteria for the Western Uusimaa region of social services are not acceptable. The reform should ensure the operating conditions of well-functioning multi-producer models. The regional division of the separate solution of Uusimaa is certainly to be welcomed, and the emergency services must continue to provide emergency care services to safeguard synergies, but we can say that this proposed social welfare reform would untenablely undermine the City of Espoo's economy. It directly and unjustly cuts the city's funding and adversely changes the structure of the funding. If there is no funding, there are no services, there are no providers. And in particular, there is still a great deal of concern about the social workers and the huge negotiations that are ahead of us in Finland. We can't be ready for that. We are currently short of staff. Mr President! Just a few more words. I am forced to raise the organisations and their activities, and I know that this is also important for the Minister. I ask and hope that resources will be allocated specifically to organisational grants. There is an intolerable situation there, because financial cuts mean that one third of the services of the organisations can disappear, and that is a huge amount. We need organizations. They will also help us over the corona, those people there in the municipalities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u19	Madam President! I don't know right, but from this conversation I came to think of a chameleon — you know those lizards who can change colors and have such a long, sticky tongue and with eyes going in all directions, and it varies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u24	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Heino for his concern as to whether we Greens are aware of what we are getting into. However, I can remove this concern from Mr Heinos. We Greens know what we're getting into. We Greens believe that it is the responsibility of the welfare state to take care of everyone in all situations and to secure social and health care services that do not have gaps to fall into. That is why this government is now finally going to implement this social welfare reform. We would not be carrying it out in the midst of this difficult pandemic if it had been possible to do so earlier. Unfortunately, this did not happen. However, let us not stay and look back now, but focus on what is now at hand and move forward together. I hope that we will all agree on this in Parliament. So we must now finally reform this structure of social welfare and health care. We need to have a system where those service chains actually work and where people don't bounce from one door to another. We can't afford to lose anyone. We must therefore, as a matter of priority, reduce the differences between welfare and health, but at the same time we must dare to talk about the need to curb the costs of the social field. Only in that way will we also secure the services of future generations. The Government's proposal now under discussion seeks to ensure that the new social welfare regions formed on the basis of social welfare reform also have the opportunity to shape their service structure on the basis of the needs of the residents, i.e. to ensure equal care for their own. Mr President! We do not have time to waste, and it is therefore important that we now use various means to ensure that the organisation of social services no longer creates new service or production structures that are harmful to the whole. That is why this proposal is very much to be welcomed. It should also be noted that, contrary to what is sometimes heard, this proposed restriction would not prevent municipalities or joint municipal authorities from carrying out the investments necessary and necessary for the operation or from entering into the necessary service or concession contracts. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Juvo for bringing the organisations to this debate, even though it is not directly related to this government proposal. I fully agree that organisations should be involved in this social reform, because they are doing important work and, as a representative of the Government Party, I would like to say that it is great that organisations are also included in this social reform package. I am sure that we will all work together to ensure that the organisations too remain on the road to this great reform. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u25	Madam President! Good speeches have been made here today on the importance of reforming social welfare and health care, and that is what this law on restrictions is all about. Since 1 July 2016, we have had at our disposal a restriction law aimed at ensuring equal and economic organisation of the services of the then social welfare reform throughout the region. Well, we are talking about a restriction law and what is being restricted, and we are talking about investment here in particular. Under the Restrictive Act, a municipality or a joint municipal authority would only be allowed to invest more than EUR 5 million in social work buildings if it is necessary and urgent to ensure the availability of services. Since the entry into force of this law, restrictions on restrictions have already been tightened three times in the past, i.e. the fourth blackmail. Exemptions for building investments have already been granted to municipalities and joint municipal authorities for the duration of the law 94. More than half of the projects have been in hospital districts, and the exemptions granted amount to approximately EUR 3.8 billion. Five applications are currently pending. Mr President! We are therefore once again faced with the reform of social security, and the amendments to the law on restrictions are linked to the success of the reform of social security. The aim is to ensure that regions in line with the social welfare reform have the opportunity to modify the service structure in accordance with the needs of the residents and, above all, on an equal footing. In order to achieve these objectives, the restriction law is now being amended so that a project carried out through a company owned alone or jointly by a municipality or a joint municipal group is also treated as a project carried out by a municipality or a joint municipal group itself in the authorisation procedure for social and health care investments. Therefore, it would now be prevented that a municipality or a joint municipal authority should enter into contracts for investments without authorisation during the period in which they have the responsibilities of organisation and the associated financial responsibility. It is worth noting that it is still possible to carry out sudden repairs, such as those provided for by the supervisory authorities, and measures relating to the annual maintenance of buildings, i.e. all necessary measures are still being taken to ensure that all necessary measures are maintained. The amendment is intended to enter into force as soon as possible, and it will be very necessary to complete the war at last. It is clear that, once again, as a major overall reform, the reform of social security will lead to different opinions. There is no reason for us to be afraid of them, so it has been as long as the social media has been prepared with what composition. But, above all, the aim now is to ensure people's access to care, and that is what we need to reform the social economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u26	Madam President! For a long time I will take the opportunity from here to speak. It may not be seven minutes, but when Mr Heinonen and Mr Juvonen used it here too, I see that this issue is quite important. The main point of the present case is the inclusion of companies in this restriction law. I understand, of course, that there has already been a wide-ranging debate on social protection at this stage, and I do not intend to avoid that myself. I do not know any developed country other than Finland, where the majority of the population does not have easy and flexible access to a doctor who is publicly funded in the same week — not a single country. I now used the words ‘publicly funded’, whereby the producer may beprivate but nevertheless publicly funded. Health systems in all countries tend to be based on basic health care and observation. It is not the only task, but one of the 32 basic health care tasks, this access to a general practitioner, that has been put in order among the first things. This instance of failure in Finland is as serious as the fact that when a young child goes to school, he would be told at the school door: ‘Today’s school hours are all over. Go home and call us if we get a cancellation school for you, or if you have money in your family, get these lessons now by paying and buying.” This situation in health care is as serious as the one I have just described. Why is this so? I don't think it's anyone's conscious evil or conscious pursuit. This is because we have four health systems in parallel in Finland: we have a strong special treatment for large shoulders owned jointly by municipalities, we have a strong occupational health care that is funded mainly by employers and employees, we have basic health care in the municipalities' own hands, and then we have a relatively large private health care that is funded by patients themselves, their employers and certain parts of health insurance. Now that we see how these different systems have evolved: from 2001 to 2016, the costs of special care have increased by 52%. The cost of occupational health care has increased by 60%. The volume and financial content of private health medical practice have increased by 50 per cent. During the same period, how much has increased medical practice in health centres? Minus 2%. Is this because municipalities do not want to develop this activity, or is this because municipalities cannot develop this activity? I'm sure it's all about both of them. In municipalities it is often said that we cannot put money into basic health care when special care takes all the money. Well, there are at least two legitimate points of view here — I have a lot of experience in this area myself. However, in any case, the question is that it is absolutely essential that we carry out the reform in which we bring the existing health care and municipal social services of municipalities and health care districts into one, the same entity, which is funded as a whole and which has a single responsibility for organisation. If we continue along this path, which we now have — and I have noticed that these statements made by the municipalities have begun to appear in the media, that this reform is not appropriate for us this time either — then we will continue to be unequal. Yes, the City of Espoo has 50000 euros, which allows them to use service vouchers for a thousand patients, but not all small poor municipalities in Finland or all medium-sized cities can find money to organise this matter with private health care purchasing services. It is absolutely essential that we now pursue this social reform in this round, and now, of course, this restriction law is linked to it in such a way that it would not be possible to achieve anything if we had a merger in some other sector and the parties to the merger could, before the merger, make independent decisions which, in their own way, put the service of their own municipality or the service privatised or outsourced by the municipality into a certain form. Yes, we must have regulations that, when this major change is made, this transfer of movement to the social welfare regions, that is, a very large merger from 296 municipalities and their 150 associations, is based on the assumption that, as a result of these past outsourcings or others, there will not be any separate solutions which undermine its overall operation because they would not be fair to all. In this sense, this law, which is now at hand, is small, but I wanted to shed light on its role in this large part of the world, which means that it is essential that we carry out the social reform now planned in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u27	Mr President! I come to the toilet for these corona reasons, and when the concerns raised by me and by Mr Guzenina in the Espoo Council were mentioned here, some of them will also be picked up in this debate. The key objective of the Sote reform is to bring together wider shoulders in the organisation of social and health care services, to ensure good quality of care and smooth care paths to avoid partial optimization and, hopefully, to achieve cost savings in a reasonably short period of time. This is an important factor in this, as Mr Lindén has just pointed out, and we are really dragging European statistics at a bad and weak level — but it is not a factor that is different in cities and rural areas, but even in cities there may be one month’s queues, no matter how much service voucher is being used. The overall picture is therefore challenging in a country where the population is ageing, however, the treatments are developing and paying more and the geographical differences are large. However, the reform should not be based on a significant transfer of funds from one region to another — then development will be forgotten. It would be important to find sufficient incentives to improve the well-being of residents, which would reduce costs and improve quality of life. There is also great potential for better pooling and exploitation of the knowledge base. The Ict solutions are therefore an important element of the reform, but also a large price tag — especially in areas where different systems are in place and there is not yet a complete cooperation structure. However, the Government's proposal presents the same challenges as the previous company. Investment in growth municipalities and the conditions for growth cannot be secured when part of the tax revenue is transferred but existing loans and future investment obligations are maintained in schools, early childhood education and transport and housing infrastructure. The factors by which the costs of social services and services remaining in municipalities have been calculated do not at present take sufficient account of the population, the proportion of the foreign-language population, the typical costs of segregation management for cities or, for example, the different rental and space costs of different parts of the country. Local government finances are also underestimated due, inter alia, to this interest rate situation and, fortunately, it still needs to be revised. We all know how many ways and often attempts have been made to carry through structural reform to improve the capacity of municipalities, and a solution is actually awaited. It is important that the good comments and serious feedback that have now been received in the consultation and consultation rounds are taken into account in the further consideration of the government. And while Heinonen was still referring to Espoo and Western Uusimaa, a few words from there. Espoo has so far implemented social services with reasonable costs compared to the rest of the country. Of course, the population base contributes to this. However, this means that after tax transfers there will be relatively less money to be spent on education and early childhood education, as well as those very well-being-enhancing services, such as sports and culture. It would therefore be very important to carry out an assessment of the impact of the reform on services remaining in municipalities. Finland’s success has been driven by a high level of expertise. Increasing social and health care costs should not be called into question in the future. The prioritisation between these two items of expenditure will certainly be hampered by the division of activities into two different decision-making organisations, and it is therefore extremely important to find ways of ensuring adequate funding for municipalities. In addition to Espoo, Western Uusimaa and HUS are also the losers of the proposed funding. The model proposed would cut HUS funding alone by over 100 million per year. It would mean some 1,500 person-years, converted into man-years. The situation in the social welfare areas of HUS and Uusimaa would be different from that of other regions and it is necessary to find ways of curbing the increase in the costs of special care. In Uusimaa itself, however, this structure is supported, this division of provinces. The goal of equality within the country is good and important, but must not be achieved by risking at the same time the development of specific knowledge and research in national health care, the level of education, primary and secondary education and international competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u28	We have spent almost an hour on this, and I will give Mr Kiuru the floor for another three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u29	Mr President! The real question in this proposal is that the current restriction law, which is already in force, should be amended as far as this is concerned, that the world has changed: we have more and more social investment, which we would like to see carried out in the form of a company. Yes, it is important for Parliament to see that it might then cause, if this is not addressed, the way in which the same investment is carried out, in accordance with the current legislation, to determine whether or not this authorisation procedure is being applied. This is as simple as that. We are now proposing a change so that it would not be relevant whether this authorisation procedure concerns a project carried out by a municipality or a joint municipal group itself, or whether this is a larger company owned by municipalities and joint municipal boards alone or jointly. In this regard, this has been a flaw in the last days and we want everyone to be subject to the same regulation and not dependent on how this investment is to be carried out. In that respect, I have understood in this debate that the parliamentary referral debate has also come to the conclusion that it is good that this is being reacted to so quickly. This debate has then, Mr President, been widely debated on social reform, on the financing of organisations and on many other important issues, and also on the fundamental philosophy of whether or not this restriction law is supported in principle. This is, therefore, the legislation in force, but this would be the change I have just described. I will continue to encourage Parliament to discuss all these themes, but this proposal will really make this change. However, it is not cosmetic from a small point of view, but it is a big issue of principle which ensures that the way in which investments are implemented is not decisive. Then everyone will be on the same line. As far as the reform of social and health care or these other issues are concerned, I personally support the fact that social welfare and health care organisations will continue to play an active part in this important work with their own financial contribution from the state. And that is what I have said in the consultation that I have been to 21 of these 22 future provinces, if I remember right now. — It was a tough bet, two and a half weeks, so I hope it was right. As far as this is concerned, it must now be remembered that one decade of social reform has already taken place, and now it is time for Parliament to decide whether or not to commit itself to the policies that Parliament has previously taken, particularly from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The square won't fit in the triangle any more. It's impossible to rub it in there. In this respect, I would like Parliament to commit itself to the important work carried out by the committees, which is at the heart of this social reform which is now taking place in the consultation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u30	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u31	We will now resume the debate on item 14 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u32	Ärade talman, Mr President! Sedan 2016 har man tilfälligt begränsat kommunernas och samkommunernas öjligheter att ingå vis avtal inom social- och älsovården som överskrider 5 million euro. Det handlar om begränsningslagen med tanke på social- och helsovårdsreformen. I det au fallet är det explicit då investoringar man pratar om. Kommuner om samkommuner har sedan dess municipalities söka om dispenss för att göra de raus investoringarna som har gått över 5 million euro. Många project har faktiskt förverkligats också inom ramen för detta, och förstås utgående från att trygga de behov som har funnits att tacka det servicebehov som har funnits. Begränsningslagens tillampningsområde utvidgas nu till bolag som ägs av kommuner och samkommuner — detta för att Hindra kringgående av lagen och för att försäkra att landskapen ska kunna påverka servicestrukturen ordentligt. Också ogiltighetsbestämmelserna förtydligas. Nu är det så att avtalet är ogiltigt om det görs i strid med begränsningslagen. I framtide precieras att ifall avtalet är ogiltigt på grund av att kommunen eller det kommunägda bolaget agerat i strid med undantagslovet eller inte ansökt om undantagslov så är det kommunen eller det kommunägda bolaget som ansvarar för Investeringskostnader och andra påfölder. Visst, det har diskaterats arv tidigare en hel del kring den arv förlängningen av den arv temporara begränsningslagen och att det inte är optimalt. Förhopningsvis hittar vi snart en fungerande vårdreform med god service åt invånarna. Men i alla fall har det raugit ut på tiden — över 14år vill jag minnas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u33	Herr Talman! Mr Ollikainen gave an excellent speech and I shall not repeat it. However, I shall take a brief look at the rest of the financing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u34	Mr President! I very much agree with what Mr Olliikainen and Mr Strand have just said on this issue of social funding. That is not the main theme at the moment, but this restriction law is also relevant to this issue, so it is natural that we should speak about this. Let me give you a very brief example, because practice often sums up certain things in the best way. At the time, when county governments were still in existence, I visited the county doctor in the county government of Western Finland and I visited the city of Rauma and came to my presentation with some criticism that Rauma was spending a great deal of money on special medical care because they had a well-equipped regional hospital and they used the central hospital of their province Satakunta in Pori and also Turku TYKS, because they are located south of Pori. The then mayor, Koski, said quite nicely that what is a government official coming here to criticise the use of municipal money — if they pursue a good business policy and have a cash register full of money, are they not allowed to use that money for the benefit of residents? Although this was such a practical example, it so remained in my mind, now even twenty years later. This is a pretty serious philosophy behind it. In other words, are we in some way able to think that if, within the framework of self-government, a good industrial policy is actually being carried out in a region, employment is good, businesses are doing well and innovation, then it would also benefit from the public social and health services of the population living in that region? After all, in principle, when we allocate funding on a need-based basis, taking into account the number of diseases occurring in different regions or the high level of unemployment and so on, we are going to do the opposite. We all understand that, of course, these problems — sickness, unemployment and so on — are behind various issues and must be reflected in funding. Of course, the age structure in particular must be reflected in funding, because age brings with it various diseases. Just as was pointed out in this previous speech, it has now been thought that there is a very small share of this promotion of well-being and health, and I know that there have been discussions on this. Well, we both represent the government parties here, and I believe that the best possible balance will be sought on this issue between this very vitality and the diseases and problems that arise.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u35	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u36	Madam President! Representatives! This is a government proposal number 123, which was, in fact, largely in the debate last week when we had the fifth amending budget, when this amount of euro was actually being processed, which is already here in Parliament. In short, this is about the amount that is now being changed in relation to the fact that when we became in need of aid because of the interest rate, one form of aid was the possibility for companies to pass on the municipal tax, corporation tax and property tax payments to the municipalities as well. Our estimate at the time was that companies were taking advantage of this for more than EUR 500 million, but now that this temporary opportunity ended on the last day of August, the result was that the amount that had been transferred was 114 million. And in normal practice, from the point of view of the principle of budgetary correctness, it is, of course, justified that it should be corrected immediately after this information has come to us. At the same time, there was also an amendment to this point that, when this repayment, which was in the draft law which was here at the time it was created, was for one year — or, in the case of tax base changes, it would have been reduced for one year — it was now decided to take it for a two-year period, i.e. to take account of tax base changes in 2021 and 2022. This is the second amendment to this bill. I believe that we all have an interest and a desire to discuss the financial situation of the municipalities as well, but this bill affects only and only this section. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u37	Madam President! There is now a concept that relates to state contributions. I am sure many ordinary citizens are wondering what this state contribution is — it does not really say, the state contribution, nothing. Well, it's the money that the state gives to municipalities, so that municipal decision-makers can then distribute that money for certain purposes. That's exactly what the state part is. You can't say it's a big piece of cake. Maybe it's more of a snack sandwich instead of cookies. It's not a delicacy. It's a pretzel sandwich, because we can do it and we can do it. If you think more about what these sections of state are being used for, then at least that side of society is needed. After all, the Finns of Peru also pointed out that it should have started 0.7 from the beginning of next year, but the government wants to start it much later, 2023. There, too, there would certainly be a great deal of need for that state contribution. This interest — it affected people, it affected families, businesses, all kinds of people, and especially the municipalities — must have had a lot to do with the state contributions. But it is important that the state continues to give the municipalities money for important purposes, and it is also important that the state does little to follow where the municipality spends the money.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u38	Madam President! This is indeed more about this kind of balance of government accounts, according to what the situation now looks like, but, as the Minister said there, this is the dimension of the local government economy that is so much wider. When the minister is present, I would at least like to ask how much, after all these interest-rate measures and additional state contributions and others, this discretion is currently being sought on the part of the municipalities, i.e. how the municipalities now see their own economic situation. Yes, when you read some of the prospects of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities for next year, they are shockingly bad. It predicts the worst economy year of all time, an increase of 4 billion in the deficit. Indeed, there is a kind of two-way deficit for the municipalities: these tax cuts but then, on the other hand, the growth of various social and other expenditures. In that sense, one of the most difficult years of local government finances is ahead of us. Of course, you are currently in the middle of a budget dispute, but can the Minister give us some insight into the way in which the municipalities are now being met? I understand, at least, that these crisis settlement procedures look at the situation in a flexible way — this is such an exceptional situation. But how much have the municipalities now, for example, gone to apply for this discretionary budget, after a little extra money has been given in that fourth amending budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u39	Madam President! This government proposal therefore includes the fact that, last spring, because of the interest rate, the government offered companies the possibility of postponing the payment of taxes on income, at the same time the government promised to pay municipalities an amount equivalent to the normal tax revenue so that the municipal economy would not become more in crisis. So the purpose of the law was to support Finnish entrepreneurs, and it was a great thing that such an opportunity was — it was a municipal, real estate and corporate tax. But now it happened that companies made less use of the possibility of tax deferral than anticipated, which has increased government tax revenues this year, and this has again reduced the need to pay the municipalities extra money, and that is why this proposal is now in the process. This proposal proposes to amend the Act on State aid for basic municipal services by revising the amount of fixed-term compensation due to late tax payments to municipalities in 2020 to reflect the latest assessment of the delay in municipal, community and real estate tax revenue resulting from changes in tax payment arrangements in 2020. So, in a way, this situation is being evened out. The revised amount of fixed-term compensation due to late tax revenue would be EUR 114 million instead of the current EUR 547 million. Due to the delay in municipal tax revenue, compensation to municipalities would amount to a total of EUR 98 million, compensation to corporate tax revenue would amount to a total of EUR 7 million and compensation to property tax revenue to a total of EUR 9 million. Madam President! I have great concerns about the human resources law, which will enter into force one month from 1 October 2020. It is now defined that 0.5 is the size this year, next year 0.55, the following year 0.6 and 23 would be this 0.7. It is very important that the municipalities are given the resources to enforce such an extremely important law, for which Parliament has been working for many years, and I hope that you will pay attention to the fact that there will be enough funding in 23 years to ensure that 0.7 is real and not just a dream. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u40	Madam President! In spring, when the corona crisis hit, companies were granted the possibility of postponing the payment of certain taxes as part of the corona package. Well, of course, this also resulted in a temporary decrease in the tax revenues of municipal taxes, real estate taxes and income tax of the communities this year. Well, it was decided to compensate for these losses so that the aid would be recovered the following year, i.e. next year. It should be noted that this part of the municipal support package is cost-neutral, and it is good to treat it as a separate instrument because it does not actually strengthen the local government finances but was intended to facilitate the situation of municipalities this year. The budgetary principle is that all known changes in government revenue and expenditure must also be taken into account in decision-making. When the tax deferral compensation was decided at the time, it was also decided that the accumulation and deferral of tax revenue should be monitored and, where necessary, adjusted to reflect the actual situation. So it has now become clear that companies have taken advantage of the possibility to postpone tax payments much less than previously estimated. At the time, 547 million were earmarked for this compensation, but it has now been verified that only EUR 114 million has been spent. For this reason, the decision will be corrected so that this year, instead of the previous decision, municipalities will be compensated only for the return of EUR 114 million. If the amount of compensation were not specified to reflect the actual situation, the municipalities would be paid too much tax revenue compensation this year. If there were no changes to the level of compensation, it would again lead to a situation in which the local government economy would look somewhat better this year as a result of tax revenue losses compensations and, correspondingly, weaker than in the next year. At the same time, the reduction is proposed to be amortised for 2021 and 2022, in line with how the revenue from the year 20 is expected to accrue to municipalities. This would ensure that deductions are made at the same time as the accumulation of late tax revenues. I believe that this is a necessary proposal. Well, as a key observation: Thus, municipalities will not lose their revenues as a result of the arrangement in 2020, even if they are reduced as a state contribution to compensation. This is due to the fact that municipalities are now receiving tax revenues from companies that were supposed to not be received. On the other hand, the procedure in which the decision is now corrected is also better for 2021, where there will be no over-recovery. But the central point: this does not weaken the finances of municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u41	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on the State's share of basic municipal services, since this year the amount of compensation due to late tax payments to municipalities will be specified on the basis of more recent estimates. Compensation is therefore paid for delays in municipal, community and real estate tax revenue. As has been mentioned here, the reduction in tax revenues has been clearly lower than expected, and the amount initially estimated in this proposal is EUR 114 million instead of EUR 547 million. Well, this loss of tax revenue caused by payment arrangements is only part of the drop in municipal tax revenue caused by the crisis. As we know, the epidemic causes a significant drop in municipal tax revenue, but also an increase in expenditure and losses and, for example, in payments and rents. Municipalities need significant other compensations and support measures," says the Administrative Committee in its previous report on this issue. Local government finances are in a rare and historically gloomy situation, and this is not due to the corona virus, which has only finalised the situation. Debt through the municipal field is very structural and chronic. It is striking in many cities, and even in a traditionally well-being municipality, that there is a weak rate of tax revenue development, even before and even despite the increase in the population. Ageing is a clear and costly fact, but even moving young adults into municipalities often does not make things right for the better. In Uusimaa, which is of primary importance to the economy of the country, taxes paid by young adults have collapsed. It is not a mystery, but many do not want to think about why. The Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities also points out that the tax base has narrowed and fewer and fewer people pay municipal tax. At the same time, the central government share has also fallen significantly over the past ten years. The fact is that nothing else will save the municipalities except for reducing their tasks and prioritising them. However, the Government adheres to its Government Programme, which increases the functions of municipalities. In particular, the extension of compulsory education and the free second stage are costly and ineffective. In addition to the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, it has been critically said, for example, by Education Employers, the Federation of Finnish Students, OAJ, the Principals of Finland, the School Curators Association, SYL, EK and many researchers. Of course, nursery and improvement of the care guarantee are good things, but the unfortunate fact at the moment is that there is no funding for them either. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has repeatedly stressed that tasks cannot be increased without new funding and that there must be flexibility and differentiation with reforms. Social welfare reform also threatens to further weaken the finances and financial position of municipalities. The present performance is a tiny patch for a huge bleeding wound.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u42	Madam President! I have come across a misconception at some point in the municipal court that all government interest subsidies to the municipal court are only loans. This is by no means the case — I feel it is necessary to correct it at this point. For example, the EUR 1.4 billion package provided in the supplementary budget in spring is not a repayable benefit. Only in the case of this government proposal are we talking about repayable compensation. In this government proposal, municipalities will be compensated for income losses due to tax and payment deferrals, for example, from the state budget, and the amount of compensation will be adjusted to reflect the latest assessment of changes in tax payment arrangements. Otherwise, I believe that this government proposal is of a rather technical nature. I welcome the fact that, at the same time, the repayment period is being extended to two years, which will, of course, give more flexibility to the local authority. In my view, the government has taken on the attacks caused by the corona epidemic in the municipalities in a historical way. Local government finances are an important foundation stone because it determines the ability of municipalities to organise and provide services for all of us Finns. Mr Reijonen, the government has kept its promise to support the municipalities in a commendable way. At present, the government is turning a package into a budget debate for next year, looking at the way in which the costs and tasks are hand-in-hand. For the city centre, the ability of municipalities to cope is a key issue. As regards the local government economy in general, it must be acknowledged that the tasks and financing of municipalities are not balanced in the long term. There are, of course, a number of reasons for this, many of which have already been mentioned in this Chamber today. Social security expenditure has been growing strongly, and only since 2015 will new tasks for municipalities have been fully replaced. Prior to this, the tasks were always replaced by only half. In several government periods, the tax on earned income has been reduced through municipal tax, which has constantly gnawed the narrow income tax base of municipalities. A reduction in earnings always sounds good, but then when we consider its impact on the community, it is of course not a good equation. From the past decades there have been governmental periods when tax reductions have not been replaced by municipalities. It goes without saying, Minister, that there are also wider challenges and concerns on the part of local government finances than the current interest rate situation. I am particularly concerned that the prospects for municipalities are so short-sighted at the moment that we can only look at about a year, six months ahead. In what way could the government support a longer outlook for the municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u43	Madam President! This bill is about balancing the accounts of municipalities in the form of interest rate measures, but, as the Minister said in his introductory speech, this does raise the issue of local government finances in general in this House. I myself have been the municipal decision-maker in my own town for almost 30 years, a municipal councillor, and I must say that such gloomy views have not been seen in the local government economy throughout that period, not even in the recession years of the early 1990s. Of course, there are very long-term changes. For example, the change in the age structure of the population creates pressures and rather deep disputes in municipalities, for example, because of the pressure to reduce the service network of schools and early childhood education, and now, of course, this epidemic of corona has increased the care and care debt that has to be paid. I have received several messages in recent days from dental professionals, for example, that people’s mouths are starting to look pretty bad, that is to say, oral health care, for example, is still not working normally, and there is a growing amount of nursing debt there too. There is a lot of pressure on the local economy, and now all the means must be used to make these services, which are important to the citizens, work. In this respect, I agree with the idea that ideological projects, such as this increase in compulsory schooling age, should not be taken forward in this situation, but that they should really be able to secure these vital services for citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u44	Mr President! Ministers! However, I have to take this local government economy a little more broadly, although it was hoped that it would not be mentioned when this law applies only to this state contribution, but the municipality's finances are a whole. Some speakers have said that this does not weaken the local economy, but it does not improve it, it is good to remember it. This will be given back in the form of a reduction in state aids later on, so that is a good thing to remember. Yesterday we had a municipal council in Hyvinkää — I have now been in politics and in the City Board since 2012 with that Hyvinkää — and we had the finances of our municipality. Hyvinkää has traditionally been a well-being municipality, and despite this, our CFO said yesterday that the mere effect of the interest rate on the forms of aid that have now been received is 0.25% on the municipal tax, and of course we already face old challenges. Of course, we are waiting for this so-called 'poor help' which the municipalities have now sought — this 60 million which is in the distribution. In fact, I would have asked about it when I realised that this has, however, been claimed for over 300 million dollars. After all, 60 million are divided, which leaves most of the municipalities to lick their hands. We found that even if we got that $6 million, we'd still be in trouble. We also have a problem with the increase in these social and health expenditure, which is more than half of the municipal budget. Of course, here the centre is asking — Mr Kempp — what can we do to help the municipalities in this short-term perspective, and one thing is of course that this social solution will be achieved in one way or another, either in such a way that it will be carried out, or in a way that it will not be possible to do so. That is one of the reasons why municipalities whose economies are very much dependent on these services and expenditure are in a hold state, so to speak, because we are constantly waiting for these solutions. That previous proposal, in a way, is related to it, because it limits the autonomy and operating possibilities of the municipality, and of course it also affects the municipalities when they do not really know what is going on here. There have been good project funding for the municipality, but it also went through the fact that, for example, it increases municipal spending on the teaching activity. It's not more money, but it does, of course, support that basic activity. I am, in fact, encouraging Mr Paateron to speak with him on a number of occasions and to go to In the case of well-being, long-term unemployment has risen by 40% and we hope for employment measures, so could we at least consider temporarily reducing these fines or, for some time, not charging them, because it is such a thing that we can hardly necessarily do anything about that employment in the municipality. We're running away from this situation anyway. After all, the destination is only further away, and then we will pay the government fines for the prolonged unemployment. You mentioned earlier that municipalities are given this wage subsidy, but, of course, if there are no jobs where the workers can be sent, then of course not all the people in the municipality can be employed, there are no such tasks. I hope that this becomes clear that the municipalities are in need. The Vice-President of the Finns Party, Mr Purra, gave an excellent speech on this very structure. We should look at these tasks, not just at giving money for tasks, but at what tasks we can think on a sustainable basis so that they are only increased and increased if we ever intend to cut public spending, because public expenditure is government expenditure and municipal expenditure — in this whole. I hope for good decisions and with a sensitive ear I will listen in particular to this matter of fines. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u45	Madam President! Even before the corona, the local government economy was in dire straits: deficits of perhaps 2 billion for the whole municipal area, and now the impact of the corona has become almost the same, in other words, that part of the EU stimulus package coming to Finland should be used to save the municipalities, so that it would come close to being readjusted, but, of course, it cannot be thought that this would be the case. But the situation is extremely worrying. It seems to me that it is not quite understood here in Parliament. It may not be of interest to the assembly, and the government parties are a bit like the back against the wall: they know what to do, but they do not, but let the local government economy be the one who suffers. — Even in this social reform, the model chosen by the government as a financing model will secure the financing of the social welfare regions, but the municipalities will be left behind because of its financing model, and it is one of the worst mistakes or flaws in that model. I hope that this will be corrected on the basis of the statements made in this regard. Mr President! In particular, when two strong ministers are still present — the fine thing is that you are here — that before November, when decisions on tax percentages for next year have to be taken in municipalities around mid-November, well before that happens, there will be clear information for the municipalities, which will be state funding for the municipalities next year and, of course, for a little longer. If that information does not come, municipalities will have to make substantial increases in tax rates in almost the whole country. We know what tax tightening will do in this situation. It increases unemployment, it takes away purchasing power from people and so on, its effects are bad. And we have many municipalities whose income tax rate and also property tax rates are already very high. There is no way to think that these people are still being blackmailed. Well, of course, we can consider the effective tax rate and other seeming things, but that does not change the situation in itself. If there is no clear, unambiguous message from the government in next year's budget proposal on local government finances, then there will actually be tax increases, cooperation negotiations which are already taking place on a large scale. This will lead to an increase in unemployment and an inevitable decline in services. When we talk about nursing, we go in exactly the opposite direction. Dismissals and people’s fatigue become ever greater problems, and in addition to all this, the debt burden in the municipalities is increasing. Now it is easy to get a debt at even a negative interest rate, but it is not that you never have to pay it off. The risk of a change in interest rates is present every day. In other words, these options are so bad that it is now necessary for the government to take clear responsibility for local government finances. The second model is then to exempt municipalities from their obligations and duties, but that path is very easy to collide with the Constitution. There, Chapter 2 of the Constitution defines the rights of people in Finland. They must be answered, and this is done by the municipalities. This path cannot be achieved in a sustainable way. Mr President, I would like to remind you of this principle of funding which emerges from the Constitution: it obliges the State to take care of the tasks of the municipalities. And finally, for example, corona testing will cause a decrease of EUR 8 million for the city of Jyväskylä this year and perhaps half a billion for the whole country. The Prime Minister promised that this would be fully replaced by the municipalities. I hope and expect that this will happen. It is an additional bill, which will come in addition to the burdens that have been presented earlier, and the municipalities will not be able to cope with it unless the State shoulders its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u46	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Det är ju så att regeringen under våren gjorde en vöjlighet att ge statsbidrag för 547 milioner åt kommunerna som man kände ansöka om, men det var betyligt färre som söktes. Vackert så. Ekonomiskt ser det ut som att det kommer att gå bättre för kommunerna i år, men nästa år kommer att vara väldigt utmanande.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u47	Madam President! This speech by Mr Kankaanniemi made me take another floor. I was going to repeat my sentence that the government has not forgotten the municipal economy. I think it is clear: the government has not forgotten the plight of local government finances. This year, the central government shares of municipalities have been increased, aid has been given to health care districts, the distribution of corporation tax to municipalities has been increased and the discretionary financial contribution granted to municipalities has been increased. Furthermore, as has been heard today, the government is making a powerful contribution to social reform, in the light of opinions, to improving it as much as possible and as fair as possible for equal services for people, and there are no new tasks for municipalities that are not fully compensated. In my opinion, the government has not forgotten the plight of local government finances. In my own municipality, Asikkala, the situation seems to make it through the short term, but the long-term concerns are on the back of the neck as in all other municipalities in Finland. In this respect, I hope that the government will still sit down tight and think about how we can translate this long-term development for the better. In my view, a proposal for changes to the municipal law is currently being prepared to allow municipalities to apply for an extension of the period of coverage of deficits. I hope that the Minister will open up a little, what is the timetable for this. I think it is critical that we do not have any mass distress over this kind of interest rate situation in relation to the concerns of the municipalities' finances. In one of the two terms of government, the situation that has arisen over the last decades will not be corrected, and I am quite sure that the Finns also understand this and have dealt with this in the last government, among other things, when we addressed this same challenge and have considered long-term solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u48	Secretary Paatero, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u49	Madam President! More than one representative said that this does not weaken but does not improve the local government finances, and it is written in: this is cost-neutral. However, other elements this year have increased municipalities' coverage of the costs of interest, in particular, by around EUR 1.4 billion — not by this law, but by the four other elements by EUR 1.4 billion. Even at the beginning of this term, we increased the index freezes, direct cuts and increased central government shares of the previous period by approximately EUR 1 billion. Now that we are moving into the budget debate to reach solutions, I expect that we will also be able to improve the situation in the municipalities next year. These elements, which have now been used to support municipalities, will probably also be the elements for next year, because it will be much easier and more sensible for municipalities, so that municipalities can move forward with these same elements — increases in the share of the normal state, possible increases in hospital districts and others — then. Unfortunately, we have a budget debate this late, and I understand Mr Kankaanniemi's concern that the municipal budgets have already left for preparation in the summer, but yes, before November, this budget debate will be completed, so that these figures can be made available to the municipalities so that the budget can be specified. Legislation relating to the recovery of the deficit has just been in the consultation process, and I do not think that there will be so much change that after a few weeks we will be able to bring it to your attention in Parliament. It was a question of discretion. 146 municipalities have now applied for them. That's about 350 million euros, so you can believe it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u50	Madam President! To Mr Kemp, I say that the Finns of Peru are deeply concerned, as this debate shows, about the economy of the municipalities and the citizens of the municipalities who need these services, that is clear, and I believe that everyone else is concerned, but action is needed and an examination of the overall situation of the municipalities and a recognition of the facts. We do not deny that in the spring there were 1.4 billion municipalities from the government and then some other smaller parts. They are a fact, but so did the companies, and so did many others, because we had the interest and still have. It replaced only what was caused by the interest rate and, as is now seen in this bill under discussion, now that the municipalities have more tax revenue than estimated last spring, then we cut off the corresponding pot of state aid. This is technically the case, of course it is right to do it in principle, but it does not make the local economy any easier, but it remains the same. And yes, if things are in good shape in Asikkala, I would ask Mr Kemppi to come to Central Finland and discuss why Karstula, Kivijärvi, Kyyjärvi and Kannonkoski are negotiating mergers and why many other municipalities have Yts on and the problem of debt is quite concrete and the population is decreasing. So the situation is really worrying. And, as I said in my speech, I am concerned about next year, that there will be hope in the municipalities for the next year and for the next years, and that is because the state makes clear decisions to give the municipalities legal and adequate state shares and, in addition, examines these obligations and tasks of the municipalities. Your government programme increases the responsibilities and tasks of municipalities when you should be critical and look a little in the other direction. There may be tasks and obligations that do not make municipalities easier, although they are good intentions in themselves, but in this situation, as the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has unanimously stated under the chairmanship of its Social Democrats, it is the wrong time to increase the obligations of municipalities. Now is the time to look at how we get out of this crisis, which we have. The situation is extremely worrying. I say it again: it is extremely worrying for the elderly, the children, the disabled, the sick and so on in particular,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u51	Mr President! I have now listened carefully to Minister Paatero's reply. You said that the same elements were supposed to go into or out of the budget line — how you want to say it now. However, I would still like to call on the ministerial committee that, hopefully, this does not mean that the issue of fines cannot be considered as not going into the ‘elements’ of the same word. That was in previous speeches about the fact that these new tasks will be completely replaced. We have often had a debate on this in the City Council and the CFO and the Mayor have said that there will always be lots that cannot be replaced, that it will never be a 100% compensation. This is worth noting — there are administration and certain activities there which cannot possibly be replaced and billed. And I must say that while I have been in municipal politics in Hyvinkää, it is the first time that our CFO has read really hard worm figures. We have, as I said earlier, more than 50% of our budget for social and health care, and they have special care, care for the elderly, child protection, which is very difficult to get to grips with, especially now in the corona era. Of course, they will be replaced, but that is the part of the leeway that is in the municipality, and where are you going to cut from there without going against the law so that you do not provide those services for teaching, road projects, infrastructure, preventive services? Yes, we have all turned the stones and the stumps, and the situation is that the municipal tax has to be increased, the charges have to be increased, and how much will there be in the future? When a lot is said about employment and purchasing power, it forgets that even though the Minister of Finance says that income tax does not rise during this term of government, this is where every citizen's purse also has this municipality side, and I think people are interested in what is left in hand. We can influence it by reducing the cost of living or even by reducing the cost of electricity transmission — it doesn't matter what way it happens, as long as people have more in their hands. Now this whole package is very worrying, and I therefore appeal to Minister Paatero to be firm with this matter of fines, for example. Hold this on the table — if not now, maybe next spring. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u52	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Economic Affairs, to which the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u53	Mr President! The recast Renewable Energy Directive entered into force in December 2018 and needs to be transposed by the end of June 21 at the latest. The proposed legislative amendment implements the Renewable Energy Directive in the area of sustainability criteria regulation. The Directive provides for a binding Union headline target of at least 32 % of the total final energy consumption of the Union in 2030 for energy from renewable sources. In addition, each Member State shall have a share of at least 14% of final energy consumption in the transport sector by 2030. The Government’s proposal aims to ensure that biofuels, bioliquids and biomass fuels consumed in Finland have been produced in a sustainable manner and can be taken into account in meeting the Union’s renewable energy targets and obligations. The working group led by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy prepared the national implementation of the sustainability criteria regulation. The proposals presented in the working group's interim report have been taken into account in the preparation of the Government's proposal. Mr President! The current sustainability rule applies to liquid and gaseous biofuels and bioliquids in transport. The proposed legislative amendment provides for the extension of the scope of the national sustainability scheme to solid and gaseous biomass fuels for electricity, heating and cooling production. This is therefore a significant change, as the number of regulatory targets will increase from the current 15 to around 150 operators as a result of the enlargement of the scope. The preparation of the proposal has sought to ensure that demonstrating compliance with the sustainability criteria does not impose an excessive administrative burden on operators. The proposed law therefore provides for a limitation of the scope of regulation under the Directive for small-scale electricity, heating and cooling plants. Additional national criteria would not be set for biomass fuels. The sustainability criteria for agricultural biomass would be updated and the sustainability criteria for forest biomass included as such in the law. Minimum values for greenhouse gas emission reduction would be laid down in accordance with the Directive. According to the proposal, the assessment of compliance with the sustainability criteria for forest biomass will be carried out on the basis of a so-called risk-based assessment, either at the level of the land or procurement area. During the preparatory period it has been estimated that Finland fulfils the criteria set out in the Directive at country level. The second draft law contained in the Government proposal is legislative technical and repeals the unnecessary entry into force provision. The legislation contained in the proposal is intended to enter into force on 1 January 21.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u54	Mr President! The proposed legislative amendment would implement the recast Renewable Energy Directive in the area of sustainability criteria regulation. In this context, I would like to highlight more broadly the problems associated with the implementation of this directive. In all, there is a huge price bomb for a Finnish motorist. Under Finland's national bio-distribution obligation, by 2030 30% of the fuels sold will be biofuels and 10% will be waste-based and star-based biofuels. The objective of the distribution obligation is therefore very strict, and new solutions are necessary to achieve the target, so that fuel prices in Finland do not get out of hand. The Government has indicated that the Government's proposal on the distribution obligation would be coming to Parliament at the beginning of next year. Mr President! The key question is whether the government now wants to enhance Finland's role as a model student of the EU in the implementation of this RED II Directive. I understand that there may be pressure on the government not to consider, for example, the cost of this obligation for motorists, but I would like to make a few points here. The EU therefore allows flexibility and national deviations. We should not be ashamed of using these flexibility at national level. In other words, not only does the RED II directive impose a minimum obligation on the distribution of biofuels, but the directive also limits the use of pastry fats and animal fats now used to a maximum of only 1.7% of all biofuels for distribution. At present, about one quarter of the biofuels distributed in Finland account for animal and waste fats used. So we come to a situation where there is a very strict national obligation which goes beyond the minimum level of this directive, and at the same time the directive introduces a new obligation in which the raw material base available is reduced. This combination represents a significant additional risk for Finnish motorists and will significantly increase prices if no response is made. Fortunately, then, the directive allows for a national derogation if animal and waste fats used are to be used to meet the obligation. Finnish hardworking, working motorists deserve affordable fuel in the future, and Finland needs an exemption from this directive. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister Lintilä, whether the government intends to apply for a national derogation from animal and animal legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u55	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for Industry for a comprehensive presentation. Indeed, there is a government proposal to the Parliament for a law amending the Act on Biofuels and Bioliquids. With regard to this proposal, I thought to raise some more general comments on biofuels and bioenergy. It is critical that climate change can be contained at a tolerable level and biodiversity loss halted. These objectives should set the framework conditions for all energy policy. If our economy produces more emissions than binds them or constantly reduces the state of nature, it will inevitably be on an untenable basis, and we ourselves will suffer from it on the longer term. Bioenergy and biofuels are offered as one of the solutions to these problems and in particular to reduce climate emissions. Biofuels have a role to play in replacing fossil energy, but it is important to understand that it can only be quite limited. This is simply because sustainable biomass is only available in limited quantities, and we need to think about how best to use it. In fact, some biofuels release carbon into the atmosphere faster than they commit themselves to. However, there are clearer limits to the preservation of biodiversity. There are alarming reports of the loss of nature all the time. The latest Living Planet 2020 report reported an alarming decline in the populations of vertebrate wild animals over the last decades. According to the recently published Global Safety Network, more than one third of all land should be protected. That is more than double the current situation. E. O., a well-known biologist. Wilson’s estimate is even greater: half the earth should be left to nature. These estimates give, to say the least, a scale. Madam President! At present, mankind burning fossil energy reserves uses more primary energy per year than plants bind it from sunlight. The idea of replacing all or even a very large part of the current fossil energy with bioenergy is therefore virtually impossible. Apart from the fact that the bioenergy we use is out of nature, it is often out of our own use, such as our plate. An article recently published in Nature estimates that the estimated increase in the amount of bioenergy in many emission reduction scenarios would lead to an increase in the price of food. The sufferers will be the poor in particular. Biomass is also needed to replace fossil raw materials for various products, and it has a variety of more advanced uses in the chemical industry. The risk is to burn valuable goods in a boiler or in a car tank. It is also economically absurd. How, then, should all this be taken into account in the biofuels policy? As indicated, to a limited extent, bioenergy has its place as part of a sustainable energy palette. It is only necessary to ensure that biomass is primarily directed to the most valuable use and that the limits of use are set by stopping the loss of nature and storing and seizing coal. Energy will then be produced as much as is possible at this stage. This would help to accept synthetic power-to-x fuels supported by non-emission energy as part of the targets for bioenergy and renewable energy. The end-up of wood biomass directly into energy must be limited, and we must ensure that plants burning fossil energy and peat are now replaced by non-combustible production. Traffic use should also ensure that a larger proportion of biofuels are used with high-alloy ethanol. It would also be appropriate to assess whether the blending obligation should be complemented by a mechanism whereby a fully or almost fully renewable fuel refuelling would add to the emission reductions by its choice. In the longer term, binding renewable energy targets should in fact be abandoned, or at least the share of bioenergy should be limited, and biofuels should be subject to emission factors reflecting their real impact. This is where the look turns to Brussels. The EU's energy policy has long been plagued by the confusion of means and objectives. Of course, it is very important to regulate the sustainability of biofuel raw materials, and that is what this government proposal relates to. However, this approach alone can lead to a situation in which the use of bioenergy is unsustainable or conflicts with the objectives and means of our different policies. In energy policy, the focus should now be on reducing emissions rapidly and halting the loss of nature, while ensuring adequate investments in clean energy. If this is forgotten, there is a great risk of being cut out of the ditch with bioenergy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u56	Madam President! In this way, therefore, the Renewable Energy Directive will be implemented as regards the regulation of sustainability criteria. Here Mr Harjanne and Mr Vestman have pointed out that the EU's policy on these biofuels has not always been very coherent, and rather, it could be said that the different national interests there have been, as in all EU policies, strongly wallpapered. This actually brings us to what Mr Vestman warned us about, that in Finland too we must understand that these national interests are often there to guide decision-making, and if we take account of the fact that there is tension in the directive, then at least at national level it would not be advisable to be there at the top of the margin so that we would not be shot at at the ankle on this issue too. It should be noted that energy is an important part of the purchasing power of citizens. As we are certainly waiting for those employment decisions from the budget debate here too, it must be borne in mind that, although we always say that, on a decision-based basis, this and this decision will create a certain number of jobs, if we do not at the same time ensure that energy taxation, for example, does not undermine our competitiveness and does not undermine the purchasing power of the citizens of the economy, then we will not understand and take into account the whole. That is why it is so important to consider what type of tax policy is being pursued on that energy side. Madam President! Even with regard to Neste's MY diesel, for which I have wondered that when it is calculated that the emission reductions would be almost 80 to 90 per cent, however, we do not want to favour this fuel with tax treatment, and therefore also, you might say, such domestic, advanced fuel technology. This is one such question which has remained somewhat unclear to me: why, at the very beginning of its term of office, this government made this fuel a fiscal challenge. Madam President! These branches of the forest industry and above all the use of these frying and animal fats. Mr Harjanne said that it is impossible to think in this way that we, with bioenergy, would completely replace what is used fossilly, but it is precisely the side streams and baking fats and animal-based fats of the forest industry that must be taken into account, for example, that they are already in the process once again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u57	Mr President! Firstly, for this EU debate and for Mr Essayah, I would like to say that, in my opinion, regardless of the problems, it is good that climate policy is agreed and sought to be agreed at EU level. This is important, of course, because we are getting more impact, but it is also clear that otherwise there would be even less climate change control at national level and the overall level of ambition would be even lower. So I see that, in this situation, all EU countries should be able to do better, but without EU coordination we would be in an even worse situation. Well, this proposal is indeed part of this EU climate package, that is to say, the implementation of the RED 2 which has already been discussed in the last period. RED II is part of this major EU climate and energy package, which is also made up of the Energy Efficiency Directive and the Energy Union. The aim of this proposal is to ensure that biofuels, bioliquids and biomass fuels produced in Finland have been produced in a sustainable way, and this is a particularly critical objective. When we talk about renewable energy, it is clear that the aim of use must also be to actually achieve those emission reductions, i.e. we should not promote renewable energy that does not actually reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Frankly, I am at least very critical of increasing the use of bioenergy: firstly, there must be certainty that increasing the use of bioenergy will actually reduce emissions, but it must also take into account the impact on biodiversity, which in many respects can be very negative. These must be taken into account in the criteria for bioenergy, and the criteria must also be evaluated and updated if the emission reduction targets are not met. Therefore, in view of the sustainability problems associated with bioenergy, the objective must be that the bioenergy phase can be passed as quickly as possible. We must move on to non-combustible technologies, as has already been mentioned here. Biomass is, however, and will certainly continue to be used to some extent, and we must, of course, ensure that biomass used is sustainable. And it is particularly important that we have these functional and reliable sustainability criteria when it is clear that not all biomass is sustainable and does not even reduce emissions — can even have a worse environmental impact than fossils. For example, in this presentation, pine oil should not be classified [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u58	Mr President! To achieve the goals of carbon neutrality, we need to abandon fossil fuels, and in order for Finland to be carbon neutral by 2035, we need to aim to move as quickly as possible away from combustion-based energy production. In the transition phase, we will also need biofuels, but their production must be sustainable in all respects. To this end, the EU has defined sustainability criteria in the Renewable Energy Directive, which we are now implementing here. I agree with the previous speakers that it is important that this be regulated at EU level. The aim of this proposal is indeed, as has been said here, to ensure that biofuels, bioliquids and biomass fuels consumed in Finland have been produced in a sustainable way. The biggest challenge for biofuels is their limited number, and there is fierce competition for this raw material in the world. As has been said here, biofuels are at their best when they are produced from waste-based raw materials. For example, by-products and waste from the wood processing industry, the food industry and agriculture are good raw materials for biofuels; however, it is always worth exploring whether this substance can be refined beyond incineration and thus generate economic added value. It is also important to ensure that the production of biofuels does not globally deprive food production or threaten biodiversity. Mr Harjanne spoke very strongly about this. This whole entity is therefore in no way without problems. Mr President! As we move away from fossil fuels, we must ensure that they are not replaced by wood burning in heating boilers. It would have been justified to include sustainability criteria in this government proposal for wood biomass in order not to divert material wood to incineration. However, now no further criteria are set in relation to this EU legislation. However, we have other ways of ensuring that this does not happen, and one of the most effective is, of course, to support the transition to non-combustible forms of heating. This has already been taken into account in support of coal compensation investments and must also be taken into account in peat compensation investments. At the same time, Finnish work is also supported because there are many Finnish energy entrepreneurs in the market producing these solutions. Indeed, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we will continue to discuss this bill on the basis of expert consultations. There we will focus in particular on these aspects of the environment and biodiversity and give an opinion to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u59	Mr President! Indeed, the government proposal is about the national implementation of the EU directive. The EU, like Finland, has ambitious environmental objectives. The Renewable Energy Directive provides for a binding Union headline target of at least 32% of energy from renewable sources by 2030. It is a good thing that sustainability criteria are not being added at national level, but that we have tried to achieve a result that would not unduly increase the burden on companies. However, all regulation increases the burden on businesses. For example, according to Turun Sanomat, the emission limits for the new environmental permit were the last straw for the Naantal oil refinery. Liquid The company announced yesterday that it would start negotiations on the reduction of 470 jobs and the closure of the Naantali oil refinery. At the mouth of the Green Minister it has been said how the world is looking for solutions to climate change and how green technology would be Finland's next export product. In 2018, liquid, of which the State owns just over one third, invested almost EUR 1.5 billion in increasing the capacity of renewable products — in Singapore. In practice, jobs disappear abroad. Mr President! My second concern is not only the impact on employment, but also the importance of the Naantali refinery for security of supply in crisis situations. It is a fact that the production of biofuels in Finland is so low that, if it were true, only one in five Defence Forces vehicles would be moved, for example. Traditional fossil fuels must be kept ready for use until the production of substitute fuel is sufficient for the period of crisis. After Naantali, the only oil refinery in Finland will be the refinery in Kilpilahti, Porvoo. The current refinery capacity has so far supported Finland’s self-sufficiency and crisis resilience. A disaster or attack on the only oil refinery in Finland would be a serious risk to our country's security of supply. Now that the minister is here, I would have asked a few questions. The first question: When will those green jobs be created here in Finland to replace the traditional industry that disappears from our country, which, among other things, will be affected by this directive? Is it really the advantage of the state owner that production and work are transferred abroad? And how will national security of supply be ensured when fuel refinery capacity in our country is reduced?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u60	Mr President! I myself am confident that the development of technology will be the answer to the problems of transport sustainability and to the questions raised in the debate. On the other hand, technological developments will make it possible to reduce emissions more cost-effectively. The rapid development of synthetic fuels, which Mr Harjanne mentioned earlier in the debate, is an excellent example of this — that is, an example of how technology is the way to achieving climate goals in a cost-effective way. For synthetic fuels, it is a question of collecting carbon dioxide from the plant’s pipe and then binding it into fuel. So the same coal goes around. Well, these synthetic fuels are currently not officially classified as sustainable or included in the distribution obligation, and that is absurd. The study commissioned by the Ministry has also highlighted the use of synthetic fuels produced by electricity, and in fact already in 2018 Parliament's Economic Committee and Parliament required that synthetic fuels be included in the distribution obligation. On this point, I would like to ask the Minister: is the government bringing to Parliament a proposal in which such new technological solutions in the case of synthetic fuels come under that distribution obligation and are considered to be sustainable fuels? And then there's the other thing: It has been pointed out that the availability of biofuel raw materials is a major problem. Some of this problem of access is, in fact, due to the fact that bureaucracy is in the way of taking advantage of all these potential side streams, for example. In other words, new biofuel raw materials can be used through this approval by the Energy Agency if they meet these sustainability criteria. The current law is such that the possibility of applying is limited only to fuel distributors and producers. In practice, therefore, an agricultural and forestry entrepreneur who manages to produce biomass suitable for potential biofuel raw material as a secondary stream of his own production cannot seek approval for his raw material because he is not an official operator within the meaning of the law. Nor does it make sense that we have such a bureaucratic obstacle to the introduction of new raw materials. In future, all possible measures and all possible flexibility will be needed, and I would also like to ask the Minister if it would not be appropriate to rationalise this application process in such a way that operators other than fuel distributors and producers could apply for this sustainability approval.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u61	Mr President! I was thinking of commenting on this debate with a few words, because the impact on sustainability criteria and the potential for the development of bioenergy in general have also been at European level for a very long time, and that is what this legislation stems from, just as has already been said here: the policies adopted during the last parliamentary term and now the implementation of the directive. Perhaps it is important to remember in this debate that it is not at all a question of going either—or-way. If the question is that we want to reduce the use of fossil fuels, then their use will be reduced so that, for example, existing cars then use substitute, alternative propulsion, which is very often then a blending market for domestic renewable biofuels. I would think it would be better for our economy too that the Finnish company has become one of the world's largest international players in renewable biofuels, so even though the sector's transformation is very significant, it has also become a business in Finland. It is important to remember that before we get to a situation like this either that we do not need to use fossil fuels, it is of course essential that we use those renewable domestic alternatives. I also do not believe that it is said that we have some interesting projects and the technology is moving forward, but when this is a process, then we should also try to manage things on this journey in such a way as to create those investments in Finland. That has been the case in the past, even though a blending obligation has been created, and it involves the way in which the market has been established politically and Finland has done quite well in doing so. It is only reasonable to me that, in the spirit of the circular economy, we should introduce and exploit the side streams that we are left with, in any case, industry. Of course, it can be easy to resist all sorts of things if you do not want to make emission reductions or if you are unable to develop renewable energies or if you are not interested in developing domestic livelihoods — which I doubt, because I am sure everyone in this Chamber will be interested in these. But something has to be done, and I think it would be better to introduce those side streams, develop that technology in Finland, because people still drive their own old cars, and then refuel more of the waste or renewable raw materials into the tank, I think it is better than refueling fossil fuel imported from abroad. Technological progress must be surprising. We do not yet know what it will bring, but a similar debate on synthetic fuels has been taking place for a long time. Let us hope that we can have the breakthrough that we have been waiting for for decades. All of these must be promoted: biofuels, new technologies and the creation of new jobs for us in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u62	Mr President! There is an amendment to the Act on Biofuels and Bioliquids, but this debate has also brought to light such things as the waste-based raw materials — Mr Elo raised. In my opinion, it fits in very well, and here the content of the proposal also refers to the Waste Directive. I think we have an opportunity here, and I would like to remind Minister Lintilä of that. I have heard that he would have visited Ostrobothnia to explore this kind of new technology, which is plastic chemical recycling. I think it is an exceptional invention to say this. I feel that our society has not offered it the opportunity to move ahead with what it has. It's revolutionary what they've done there. There waste plastic, car bumpers, auma plastics are made of fuel and oil. They can take naphta or gasoline or kerosene or oil from it. So the reuse of fossil raw materials is, in my opinion, one of the things we need to focus on now. Now that waste directive has been mentioned here, and when this new waste law is being turned on, we must ensure that we do not turn the clock back for 20 years in this recycling world, as I am in the process of reforming the waste law. In practice, I believe that they want to socialise waste as a social problem or as a benefit — I do not know which it is. This is a revolutionary technology that has been developed there. People from all over the world have been there to get to know it. I think that we should try to promote it with the help of the State, and so briefly I would like to ask Minister Lintilä: are you familiar with the latest upheavals there, and are you going to promote the advancement of this technology?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u63	Mr President! The terrible fate of the Naantali refinery was raised here, and I will continue on this subject because it is topical and has a direct link with the chosen energy and climate policy. It seems that this Naantali refinery is the first major victim of climate policy to hit this close. As a Nazi, I've been working at a refinery myself for almost a decade. In addition to workers and their families, the impact of possible abolition extends widely to the entire business field, which has successfully cooperated with Neste, and it is not appropriate to forget the importance of corporate taxes for the city of Naantali. I understand that Minister Lintilä has already been in contact with Mayor Mutanen, and I would also like to welcome you to Naantali for my part. On the same occasion, I hope that you will get to know the E18 ring road between Naantali and Raisio. In this difficult situation, in addition to the security of change and the structural funds, it is important that this project should be run with honor, and the Ely Centre of Varsinais-Suomen ely is in a situation where only funding is missing, I think this amount is EUR 4.2 million — that is the only remaining part of Europe, even the Italians have had time to complete theirs. This is really an important project, and when you go to Naantal, you will see where this is at at the moment. Although spending limits and other social conditions take time, I hope that you will also give enough time for this situation in Naantali and its neighbourhood, and I am sure that we will provide you with the necessary support to facilitate this situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u64	Mr President! I'll be brief. We missed out on the issue of climate change mitigation and the representative. Ronkainen mentioned those green jobs, that, as I have just told you, the revolutionary breakthrough in Ostrobothnia — I think it is revolutionary — and the new technology could actually create a great deal of jobs here in Finland. I understand that no one has yet been able to take this technology as far as it has been taken in Ostrobothnia. I just want to mention that I believe that green jobs will be available if we actually take up that new technology and give it the opportunity to move forward, and I believe that it should also be supported and promoted in some way in terms of its ability to enter the market. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u65	Mr President! In short: Mr Vestman asked about the further preparation of RED 2, in fact a couple of times, whether a national amendment is being sought for animal and vegetable fats. We are in the process of preparing — no decisions have been taken at this stage. It also came from the extension of the distribution obligation to new fuels. This has been the subject of preparation and, as I think I said in my speech, this will come to Parliament during the spring of 2021. So all of these will have been covered now during the preparatory period, but thank you for those lunches he presented. Well, then to the last couple. It's interesting that Ronkainen and Mäenpää see the exact opposite. There were jobs in Mr Mäenpää's speech, and there were jobs in Mr Ronkainen's speech. I'm a little in agreement with both of you. So I am concerned about the jobs that go, like in Naantali, it is quite clear, but I believe more about creating jobs precisely through the new innovations mentioned by this sort of Mäenpää. These environmental innovations are actually the only driver at the moment that drives investment in the world, i.e. to find new ways. And yesterday, when I talked to Neste's management, they said quite clearly that the reason for the decline in fossil demand in the world was the reason. They didn't say a word about the environmental permit to me. So you can say that fossil demand is so indirectly influenced by environmental issues, but they turn renewables to the side. But, of course, as Mr Junnila has pointed out in his speech, every job is needed and everyone's loss is a loss that will happen. In fact, I have not spoken to the mayor, but the Prime Minister and I have been talking about coming to visit him. The time is now open. — This is very close.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u66	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 45 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u67	Mr President! In general, a better overall picture of corporate subsidies has been needed. During Prime Minister Sipilä's reign in 2017, it was agreed that the monitoring and registration of business subsidies will be developed and Statistics Finland's business support statistics will be expanded. The customer information system of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy’s business services aims to develop the operations and competitiveness of business customers and to maximise the effectiveness of business-oriented services. The information system enables information to be shared with local, regional and national business service providers. The basic task of a common data reserve for business customers is to gather the common business support information needed by different actors, to manage the quality and accessibility of this information throughout the life cycle and to provide information to those who need it. This proposal extends the customer information system for business services by means of information on business support provided by government authorities and associations and foundations granting subsidies on their behalf. The proposal concerns aid under Article 107(1) TFEU for various administrative sectors which comply with EU State aid rules. This obligation does not apply to primary agricultural and forestry production and fisheries. The Act also provides for the right of the aid authority to disclose business support information to another aid authority without prejudice to confidentiality rules. In addition, the Ministry would be obliged to disclose to the Commission information on the granting and payment of aid subject to publication and transparency obligations to the Commission as necessary to fulfil the obligation of EU State aid regulation. Mr President! The aim of the proposal is to improve management by using digitalisation. The aim is to clarify in a transparent way the common picture of business aid in such a way that information on business customers by the state or by organisations granting subsidies on its behalf is in one place. The proposal makes it easier to monitor the de minimis cumulation in part. The administrative burden will be reduced by asking the company for information on the aid received only once for organisations covered by the law. Data on the data reserve would be reported centrally to Statistics Finland's Business Support Statistics and the European Commission's Transparency Portal. Thus, in the future, up-to-date data would be available more quickly. The availability of data also contributes to the assessment of effectiveness. The proposal would enter into force on 1.4.21.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u68	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-15-ps-112.u69	Mr President! We are now dealing with the protection and rights of experimental animals and changes to the legislation on experimental animals. First of all, I think it is very important that we say out loud what we are trying to achieve here. In other words, the objective must be to abandon animal testing, and the objective of the EU directive on experimental animals, which is also being discussed here, is to abandon animal testing. It is therefore very good that the EU as a whole is seeking to eliminate this serious problem of animal rights. Well, how do we get to this? Animal testing may be replaced and replaced by other methods — methods that are equally reliable and do not require suffering to be inflicted on animals. We must have strict requirements to promote these non-animal methods, and this can be done not only through legislation but also through education and, for example, through financial and resource management. I believe that we need a clear national plan for Finland to abandon animal testing. Well, this proposal is about supplementing the implementation of the directive on experimental animals, and a few changes and further improvements are also being made at national level. First of all, it is proposed that this law be extended to the foetuses of birds and reptiles during the last third of their development. I think it is a very good thing that this is included in the experimental animal law. In this context, however, it would also be useful to include arthropods and all molluscs. This is one of the points that has also been raised in this consultation. Then another important point, in my opinion, is that when evaluating the experimental animal project, we should always find out and ensure that the project has also assessed these non-animal methods, i.e. the experiment designer should always have comprehensive knowledge of these options. As pointed out in the consultation, the law should also include the obligation on the designer to ensure that the research or part of the study cannot be carried out by non-animal methods. This would also be important in order to achieve this objective of ending animal testing. This would also enable us, as a society, to better assess whether it is ethically acceptable at all. In any case, we will have to assess whether the harm caused to the test animal is acceptable in relation to the benefits of the test. Then I would like to comment on this project authorisation committee. It is now proposed to change the composition of the panel so that a number of alternates representing the same field of expertise could be appointed to the sections of the panel instead of these personal substitutes. This is justified by the fact that this has been a proposal from the Project Authorisation Board. But at least I know that not all the members of the panel have agreed on this, that is, animal welfare members are not in favour of making this system of alternates more flexible in this way. So here's the fear that, in a way, the face factor can then be used to select those members. On the other hand — for example, when these issues have been the problem, or when it is thought that they have been a problem — this could be corrected in such a way as to emphasise that one employer, such as the University of Helsinki, could not have too many of these members, which would then not become this problem of ice cream. But, indeed, if it is decided that more than one alternate may be appointed, it is a good thing that it is then also recorded that these alternates must represent the same area of expertise as its actual member. In addition, there are a number of specific proposals: The problem now, for example, is that the cage sizes of experimental animals are very small, and it is a good thing that efforts are being made here to increase the stimulus, but it is also clear that these cage sizes are being raised. For example, there is a clear problem with rodents. Then there is the regulation of this killing of experimental animals, and I would like to say that, when carbon dioxide is used, it is currently defined in such a way that it is not suitable for newborns, but this is an unclear definition, and it would be clearer that it would be banned until the withdrawal age. As far as end-of-life is concerned, it would also be good if the law were to say that this repatriation of animals after experimental use would be a preferred option for the treatment of individuals or other suitable care systems, since it is also clear that it would then be possible to give these animals, some of them, a home instead of killing them. Mr President! I would add that this change is neither very big nor sufficient in view of the fact that our objective is, however, to give up all animal testing, but there is a lot of good here, and at least I believe that a world without animal testing is possible.
