ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u1	The election of the President will now be followed by compliance with the provisions of Article 34(2) of the Finnish Constitution and Articles 5 and 6 of the Parliamentary Statute. So the election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn according to the roll call to be made in alphabetical order. — I am indeed asking you to hold security intervals when you come here. Where appropriate, the name of the candidate shall also be identified with sufficient precision using the first name. As assistants for checking ballots and counting votes in the election, I would ask the following representatives: Mrs Salonen, Ms Tavio, Mr Sarkomaa and Mr Kurvinen. I note that the votes are not read out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u2	The result of the vote shall be read.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u3	When Anu Vehviläinen has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected President of Parliament for the remainder of the 2020 Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u4	I would ask the President to give the House Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure. the solemn declaration provided for in the Treaty.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u5	I, Anu Helena Vehviläinen, assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Anu Helena Vehviläinen försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och riksdagens rättigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u6	I now ask the President-in-Office to take his place in Parliament and to take the lead.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, ärade ricksdagsledamoter! Thank you very much for your confidence. For my part, I will do everything in my power to be worthy of your trust. Jag vill rikta ett varmt tag till er för visat förtroende. För egen del ska jag göra allt jag kan för att vara värd ert förtroende. I trust in good cooperation with the Vice-Presidents, with all the Members of Parliament and with the parliamentary services. In common, our most important task is to promote Finland’s good living, living, working, experiencing a happy childhood and youth, and getting care for the elderly. Democracy, democracy and parliamentaryism are at the heart of this Parliament. This is good for us to remember at every moment. I will take up this task at a special time. The interest epidemic has kept us in the grip of spring. It's still not over. Internationally, Finland has done very well in managing the epidemic. However, the crisis has made the lives of Finns much more difficult and in many ways. Concerns about your health and well-being and the situation of the people close to you have become part of the everyday life of Finns. I hope that we will be able to take the right decisions here, especially for those who are suffering from the corona crisis. The Korona crisis has also challenged the ways in which Parliament operates. We have had to seek new solutions for both work and debate, decision-making and voting. The telework has gone well since the initial difficulties. It can be said that as a parliament we have been an integral part of a major teleworking experiment in Finland. The epidemic of interest has highlighted the security of the supply of democracy. Parliament must always be able to function. The lesson of this spring is that we should continue to reform our ways of doing things in such a way that we are a well-functioning and decision-making house in all circumstances. The plenary session is the most important arena for public speaking. Even in heated debates, it is also important to respect the opponents and give them room for their views. Each representative himself has a responsibility to ensure that the debate culture in the Chamber is of high quality and valuable. My aim is to lead the debates in the plenary session in such a way that everyone's vote is equal. Work in Parliament has been surprising at times due to an epidemic in the spring. The state of emergency has brought forward things that have been new to all of us. We've made it through this with our dry feet. My warm thanks go to all of you Members of Parliament, the Bureau and the staff. Arbetet i ricksdage har emellanåt variety fullt av överraskningar under våren på grund av epidemi. Undantagstillståndet har lett till att vi alla ställts inför sådant som variantt nowt för oss. Men vi har klarat oss torskodda ur det. Varmt tag för detta till below ledamoter, presideet och personalen. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Your work is based on knowledge and experience, to which your electors have given an enormous amount of value: the power of the MP. I hope that in the role of President I can contribute to the times of success for each of you as representatives of the Finnish people. Power and wisdom for your work! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u8	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. It is now decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on the basis of VAVM 7/2020 vp. on the basis of the report. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the debate will take place in respect of the speeches requested in advance, with a maximum of 5 minutes of group speeches. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 3 minutes. The debate is opened by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u9	Mr President! The Corona virus epidemic has rapidly changed economic policy plans, and the outlook for the economy is completely different from that for the public finances plan last autumn. At that time, the starting point was stable, albeit slowing, economic growth. During the spring, the economic situation has deteriorated very rapidly, leading to disturbances in production, a sharp decline in demand and economic downturn. The cost of public finances has increased significantly and, at the same time, tax revenues have decreased. According to the budgetary plan under consideration, support measures in the context of the interest rate crisis are expected to increase the general government deficit by nearly EUR 14 billion in 2020. According to the recent fourth draft amending budget for the year, this estimate has been revised as expenditure has been increased to EUR 18.8 billion in net borrowing in the current year. Although the economic disturbance is assumed to be short-term, it remains a deep trace of the economy. Economic growth is not estimated to be sufficient to strengthen the budgetary position, so public finances are expected to remain in deficit for several years. The Ministry of Finance estimates that the debt ratio will rise to nearly 80% of GDP in 24 years. On the other hand, according to a report published by the Ministry of Finance, the so-called Group of the Greens, it is justified to set the minimum size of the adjustment requirement at 3-4 % of GDP, which is likely to be sufficient to stabilise the GDP ratio of public debt. Depending on the pace of economic growth, this could be a success even in the debt ratio of less than 80%. It is important to strive for rapid and sustainable growth so that this harmful effect is as short as possible. The Committee welcomes the fact that the government has implemented the active fiscal policies required by the situation and has launched rapidly, during the spring, a wide range of measures to support the economy. They have secured jobs and livelihoods, facilitated the financial situation of companies in difficulties arising from the corona virus and strengthened healthcare funding. In addition, the fourth draft amending budget for the year contains measures to support the rapid recovery of the economy, perhaps by a quarter. In addition to a number of decision-making measures, the so-called automatic stabilisers also support the economy and alleviate the plight of households. These three generous additional budgets have come, as it were, from Aladdin’s magic lamp, and it has seemed to me that, on the face of it, we are going to be able to raise such large sums of money for the necessary expenditure. At the same time, the three are perhaps a decisive figure, as is the case with Aladdin, and there will be no wonders just as significant in the future. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs stresses that economic policy must be timely and properly targeted so that the economy recovers as quickly as possible and growth is stronger than anticipated. It is therefore justified that the first phase of the crisis has focused on mitigating the immediate economic impact and safeguarding the existing production base. In the second phase, if restrictions are relaxed and eliminated, demand needs to be resuscitated as a matter of urgency. In order to increase economic activity and demand, both public and private investments are needed, such as investments in transport projects, the reduction of transport network repair debts, investment in domestic industry and services sectors and the increase of affordable housing production. The decision-making process must prioritise actions that contribute best to economically, socially and ecologically sustainable development. For longer-term growth, it is necessary to strengthen productivity by increasing education, research, development and innovation. Furthermore, in the current situation, it is essential to adhere to the target set by the Research and Innovation Council that Finland’s national RD expenditure will rise to 4% of GDP by 2030. It is also important to ensure that Finland does not fall short after the crisis phase. It is therefore necessary to invest in training, increasing training places, continuous learning and raising skills to reduce labour shortages and promote employment and the emergence of innovations. They are also prerequisites for growth and key tools for achieving the goals of a digital, carbon neutral and climate-sustainable economy. The stimulus measures will strongly increase central government expenditure, and the changes are expected to bring central government debt up to EUR 125 billion. In particular, structural unemployment and the drift away from the labour market must be reduced by reforms that increase labour supply and demand and which reduce the problem of labour matching. It must also be possible to extend working careers by promoting the employment of young people, in particular those who have just graduated into the labour market, and by promoting the employment and employment of older people. The preparation and implementation of these measures are therefore all the more important. The Committee also highlights measures to improve the productivity of working life, which should be implemented in all sectors and administrative sectors and also in cross-sectoral terms. It is therefore important to promote, inter alia, the digitisation of state activities and the development of information systems and public procurement. The Committee notes that as a result of the corona virus situation, government debt and guarantee liabilities have increased further with the decisions already taken and are still under considerable pressure for growth. Although the guarantees have not incurred significant losses in recent years, their increase still poses an increasing risk to public finances. The committee is also concerned about the high level of household indebtedness. Increasing indebtedness has raised concerns among public authorities, including the European Systemic Risk Board and the IMF have warned Finland about this. Private consumption based on consumer confidence is very sensitive to negative news, so high household indebtedness also poses a risk to economic development and needs to be actively monitored. The aid package included in this last amending budget is very important for the local authority, as many key services and investments are carried out specifically in municipalities. It is also important that the government is committed, if necessary, to complement the package of measures for municipalities in the August 20 budget debate, by which time the impact assessments of the corona crisis have been revised. The Committee stresses that the long-term economic impact of the corona epidemic must also be monitored after 20 years and that compensation for the additional expenditure and loss of income associated with the epidemic must be ensured for the local government economy. The committee considers it important to implement a change in the law on carerisation and stresses that the cost implications of its implementation should be monitored as the reform progresses. The Committee stresses that the impact of new and expanding tasks on local government finances should be realistically assessed in all circumstances, in order to ensure that the increase in central government participation is fully in line with the increase in costs caused by these tasks. The Committee also draws attention to the adequacy of the resources resulting from the extension of compulsory education. This is one of the main structural reforms of the government, which increases the compulsory education age to 18 years and builds on various forms of study and support, among other things. The Committee considers this reform to be important and believes that extending compulsory education will strengthen skills, educational equality and employment, and it will also be a means of preventing the exclusion of young people. The committee stresses the careful preparation of the reform and the measures taken to ensure its successful implementation. The Committee on Finance agrees with the opinion on the report and adds its own position to it: ‘The Commission does not have to comment on the management of the budget,but requires the government to adopt the following measures: Parliament requires the government to take decisive measures to stabilise public finances gradually by further strengthening the conditions for sustainable economic growth, employment, competitiveness, skills and the productivity of public administration."
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u10	Before we move on to the group debate, I will give Mr Vanhanen the floor for three minutes at this point, because he has an Ecofin meeting at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u11	Mr President! The committee's proposal is a very binding and heavy one, not very many lines, but even more so. The fact is that this epidemic has changed the economic outlook of the entire decade that has begun, quite apart from what we hoped and expected when it comes to this decade. But it's a reality, and you live by it. According to the Ministry of Finance forecast in March, GDP in the national economy is projected to decline by around 5.5 per cent. This world of predictions lives. No one yet knows what will be the economic development as a result of the aftermath of the epidemic. If the financial crisis phase is assessed, Finland was one of the countries whose banks handled their own affairs in such a way that there was no bank crisis here, but when its global effects turned into an investment recession, we were one of the biggest economic sufferers. As regards this epidemic, it is also not known what economic development will be and what its final effects will be. According to the current estimate by the Ministry of Finance, the consolidation of the government debt in this decade would require some EUR 7 billion in adjustment measures. I would imagine that there is not yet a full basis for such an accurate assessment, but it shows the scale of the challenge we face. In the first phase, the government has launched measures to minimise damage and stimulate demand. There will be a referral debate tomorrow on the very large additional budget for this year, which is now being discussed in other countries as well. All this leads to a significant increase in government debt. It is now a question of creating a credible plan of how, however, we keep this debt on the scale of our government, so that our ability to take care of its obligations is believed. This will have an enormous impact on the conditions under which the Finnish State will live on the market in the future. The Government is aware that the objective is demanding and requires extensive measures. These measures must be taken and a road map will be drawn up in connection with the budget debate. Action to strengthen employment is a key element of the sustainability road map. We are looking for a situation where insufficient demand for work does not limit growth in employment. This is the same subject that the chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen, has just referred to. These challenges are great, but not undefeated. You don't have to raise your hands here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u12	And then a round of group talks. — — — — Social Democratic Parliament Group, Congressman Pierainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u13	Madam President! Throughout the spring, we have lived under exceptional circumstances as the corona virus pandemic rips the world and our country apart. We have worked hard to help Finnish people and companies. The government’s efforts to deal with the health and economic crisis caused by the pandemic have been secure and prompt. In the past, the Government has adopted three amending budgets, and the fourth is currently before Parliament. Amending budgets will support job and business survival, improve social security networks and health resources, and support municipalities in the midst of distress. This budgetary plan has been drawn up in a situation where exceptional circumstances prevail in Finland. It is therefore of a different nature than under normal circumstances. Madam President! We are entering a phase of reconstruction in a corona crisis. Ensuring human health is still a key issue. In economic policy right now, it is important to save jobs and prevent bankruptcy. It is important to continue to support businesses and prevent lay-offs from becoming redundancies. The best remedy for this is the safe and controlled opening of society, remembering, however, that the virus is still among us. We do not yet know how much scar the corona crisis leaves in the economy, so it is now time for decisive action. In addition to recovery, we need structural reforms and measures that will enable us to maintain jobs and create new ones. The Government’s strongly reviving fourth additional budget, as well as the reform of social security and the extension of compulsory education, meet these challenges. It is now important to direct money to transport projects, to reduce transport network repair debts, to invest in domestic industries and services, and to increase affordable housing production. A timely and well-targeted economic policy will mitigate economic damage and recover as quickly as possible. The economic outlook is also bleakened by the decline in the global economy caused by the corona virus. Decisions restricting the activities of businesses and the free movement of people and other activities have significant global economic implications. For export-driven Finland, it is essential that the European economy and the global economy be brought into a growth path as quickly as possible and that policies support market stability as much as possible. Madam President! In this situation, the SDP finds it particularly problematic to talk about economic cuts and stalemates, which in particular come from the opposition. The time for fiscal consolidation will come, but it is not now. This is not irresponsibility; this is wisdom. The government is committed to strengthening public finances and stabilising the debt ratio by the end of the decade, as recommended by economic experts. It is important that budgetary consolidation is carried out at a time when economic recovery has already begun. We must not put it at risk by measures taken too early. At the same time as we look at the long-term balance of public finances, the state's income base needs to be strengthened and taxation should not be excluded. Structural reforms, such as extending compulsory education and social security, are progressing, although the opposition is trying very hard to prove otherwise. Starting places have been added to higher education institutions, which is important. Employment measures are set out in the autumn budget. Pension reforms have always been carried out in cooperation with the social partners, and this should be the case now. The SDP considers it important to extend working careers from both the beginning and the end, above all by speeding up young people's access to work and by investing in maintaining working ability and well-being throughout their working lives. For longer-term growth, it is necessary to strengthen productivity by increasing education and research, development and innovation. New innovations hide Finland’s new soots and other success stories.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u14	First of all, congratulations to the President and the new Minister for Finance. The state and direction of our public finances are shocking. According to Eurostat, the ratio of government and central government guarantees to total output in 2018 was the highest in the euro area. At the same time, municipalities and households were more in debt than ever before. So this situation was before the corona — shocking. So debt has been taken in good times, and in bad times all the more so. What is our government doing in this situation? Its government programme was, at first, an entirely over-optimistic, imaginative stimulus to the expectations of employment and economic growth, which increased all spending, calling its investments into the future. Where's the money? Well, by debt — again — of course. The government cannot forever cloak its own political goals as recommendations for experts. There are supporters in the government for every move. That is why it would be good to listen at times also to those who look at the state of our public finances as a whole. Their greetings aren't that nice. What is the government doing, knowing all this? It makes a policy that is a soup cooked by five chefs, in which each cook has thrown his own spices, his own co-cooks dragged in. It is easy to propose to voters when billions of euros are thrown in the bucket. But what happens when one day the time comes for payment? Madam President! When a Member State has become over-debted in an EU federation, we take out a loan and lend it — in other words, as a gift — money to that Member State. When we support the countries of southern Europe with low VAT and large gold reserves, will you really live in the belief that they will buy our exports? Why, then, is it not shown in our export statistics? Italy accounts for just over 3% of our total exports, while Spain and Greece are still significantly smaller. So the others get theirs, we pay, we are net contributors all the time. Now it seems that the Finnish State guarantees everything and anyone who dares to ask.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u19	Madam President, congratulations to the Assembly on behalf of the parliamentary group! Since the beginning of our independence, it has been an honour in Finland to manage the state finances responsibly. In this way we have gained a reputation that enables Finland, as a contracting partner, to be trusted, including in terms of debt repayment. As a result, we have recently received money from the financial markets even at a negative interest rate. However, our ratings have already deteriorated and we are no longer in the top three-A class of the other Nordic countries. The main task of the Marin government is to reverse this development and restore Finland to a Nordic country of responsible economic management. Simply breaking the debt ratio is a dangerously unambitious goal. Our public finances are in an unsustainable career and Finland is not an attractive and competitive investment destination. The labour force is declining and our labour market is the most rigid in the world. Madam President! Uncontrollable debt is different from debt. Every business leader knows that indebtedness must be accompanied by a sufficient return on capital, which means that debt acts as a lever and a driving force for economic growth. Central government finances cannot be directly compared to the business economy, but if the state continues to take on debt, particular attention should be paid at the same time to factors that improve competitiveness on a permanent basis. This was done during the Sipilä government, and employment started to rise strongly. According to the old saying, there is no recipe for success, but there is a desire to please all. Originally, the Rinte government lost its grip on balancing the economy when, before the corona crisis, it wanted to please everyone and distribute debt money as well as money from the sale of productive assets to more than one billion, good targets. On the other hand, all structural reforms in the field of working life led to decisions being taken by the external parliamentary working groups. It can be said that the government's attitude towards increasing government revenue and employment is very pro-NATO: no action, talk only. Mr President! Over a few years, Europe has been revived by the ECB with thousands of billions. By pumping money into the market, attempts have been made to help companies invest. Almost all experts believe that the period of low interest rates goes on for years. It may be, but if the government thinks that under these circumstances additional debt is harmless and the ECB manages the debt in one way or another, this view will not be purchased by the coalition. A success - oriented athlete always tries to learn from those who are at the top. Finland must learn from Germany and Sweden. Their budgetary prospects are strong, which is also reflected in the current account surplus, and can therefore afford to revive without any concern for credibility. Sweden and Germany are expected to be in surplus in three years' time. Finland, on the other hand, will continue to be heavily in deficit for years to come. Finland’s public finances are falling deeply into deficit. We are sinking into a weak euroland in the north. The fact that our current account has been in the cold for eight years in a row also tells us. These are weak starting points for a decade of competition for young people's skills and investments and the severe budgetary costs of ageing. Liberalisation of the labour market and increased labour inputs must now be a priority, not a preference for income transfers. Madam President! In the budgetary plan, the Government’s objective was to close the sustainability gap and raise the employment rate to 75%. The objective was right: balanced public finances by the end of the parliamentary term. In reality, the government abandoned its own goals. Expenses were raised as soon as the government started. Thus, public finances were in reality becoming heavily in deficit even before the corona crisis. The new objective is merely to stabilise the debt ratio by the end of the decade in relation to GDP. No objective has been set for the level of debt, nor for the state’s ability to pay. We now see traces of this new destructive attitude in the amending budget, where money is distributed to the interests of each party without any idea of how the bill will be paid. This is a direction that the Assembly cannot accept. On page 6 of the public finance plan, the government states that ‘it is essential that the level ofrecovery should also decide on structural measures to restore Finland after the crisis to a path of sustainable growth,high employment and sustainable public finances. “ We have a multi-billion-dollar recovery package in this Chamber, but no employment measures have been decided. The government cannot run away indefinitely from the structural changes needed to break down the incentives traps as well as to increase the flexibility of doing and agreeing on work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u20	Mr President! Finland is in an exceptionally serious situation. Although we have so far overcome the fear of coronavirus with smaller human losses, the danger to human health is not yet over. In the world, the number of diseases is still increasing. Finland’s economy has been affected and has suffered considerable damage. At the end of April there were 433,000 unemployed job seekers. Although there are also many laid-off ones in that group, this figure alone shows how deep Finland has fallen. Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, the Finnish economy was put in good shape. It enables us to build a bridge over a bad day. Debt is taken to prevent Finland from falling into a wave of bankruptcy and long-term high unemployment. They would have serious consequences, especially for the weaker members of our society. However, the debt spiral must be brought to a halt. The bill that is now due must start to be dealt with next autumn. The Centre considers that it must be done fairly for all Finns and for the whole country. Mr President! A big choice is made between growth and employment policies and reforms on the one hand, and tax increases and expenditure cuts on the other. As far as possible, the Centre wishes to prevent tax increases that degrade Finland and expenditure cuts that discriminate between Finns. That is why the first thing for us is to increase the amount of work and productivity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u29	Mr President! Interest has pushed society as a whole and, as a result, the economy into a deep crisis that will not rise without a sustainable recovery. We must now ensure that we are also more able to cope with future crises. This calls for a green reconstruction, which will at the same time prevent emissions and poverty when the economy is being brought back on its feet. The fossil economy that accelerates climate change and inequality is a very fragile and risky base for the welfare state. That is why we should try to get rid of the fossil economy. This makes sense both for the sustainability of the economy and for competitiveness. Even the toughest capitalists in the United States are already causing climate change to withdraw their money from pollution. There is much more demand for climate change investment than supply, and this is an opportunity to seize when building Finland's way out of the corona crisis. We must therefore try to reform as we correct the signs of the corona crisis. This is a green reconstruction. Mr President! Korona has taken away an unfortunate number of jobs, livelihoods, and even a loved one’s close spirit. Thousands of Finns now need help and support to recover from the crisis. This is not the first time in Finland’s history that it requires extraordinary joint action to safeguard people’s well-being. It should be remembered that the welfare state was built on the ruins of the two world wars to safeguard difficult times. It is therefore time to strengthen safety nets and not cut off these vital services for many. Instead of cutting, it's time to build a new one. The green reconstruction is based on five principles: First of all, global warming must be kept below 1.5 degrees, otherwise there will be a much greater crisis than the corona. This will require rapid emission reductions and investment in energy renovations as well as, for example, sustainable transport. At the same time, tax and business subsidies should be reformed so that sustainable choice is always the most economically viable choice. Secondly, we must safeguard people's livelihood and well-being and combat the growth of inequality. This requires strengthening both social security and social and health care services. No one should be left alone with his illness or distress. Thirdly, there is a need to invest in education. This will improve employment and productivity as well as the well-being of people. Especially in times of crisis, we must ensure that everyone stays in a changing world. A genuinely free education and training path is needed, which will continue for everyone from the age of five to adulthood. The starting places for higher education institutions were increased now, but more needs to be added, because the future of Finland lies in high levels of competence. Fourthly, the corona crisis is recovered through international cooperation. As long as the disease is raging around the world, unfortunately we have not won it either. The world's recovery from the interest rate is also a prerequisite for Finland's economic recovery as an export-driven open economy. More than half of Finland's exports are directed at the EU region, when EU recovery measures in particular are central to Finland's economic recovery. Finally, we must ensure that the effects of the corona crisis do not fall on the shoulders of one generation, but are fairly distributed. The Government has already committed itself to ensuring this in the framework of the spending limits debate. The crisis package of over 300 million children and young people is a good start to this, as is the massive climate effort. We know that young age groups are smaller than their predecessors. We will not be able to assume our responsibility for saving the climate, the welfare state and the economy unless we have exceptionally strong resources to survive in working life. This cannot be done without proper investment in well-being — above all, mental health, whose problems are unfortunately the most common cause of incapacity for work even now. The most efficient investments in working capacity and productivity are made in day-care centres and schools in this country. The skills of children and young people must be raised to a higher level than ever before. It is not sustainable that, without further action, the generation of my parents is becoming the most educated in this country, while at the same time the demands of working life are growing at an increasing pace. Mr President! If we cut our wings off from the recovery and recovery of people and the economy, then we will certainly not emerge from this crisis. Children and young people need to be given a good chance to resolve the major crises of the future. Just talking about the debt burden is not going to solve this. Action is needed, investment in well-being and knowledge. At the same time, we must make the polluters pay, because the greatest risk for the future of both children and the economy of this country is climate change. That is why it is great that the government has long since committed itself to deciding in the autumn to reform both business subsidies and taxation so as to rebuild the economy on a more sustainable basis. Everything must change, for on a dead planet there will be no more debt clocks than a welfare state.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u32	Mr President! Finland has successfully suppressed the corona epidemic. However, we also have new infections, and outside Europe the virus is now spreading with frightening force. This uncertainty will inevitably continue in the economy as well. According to the Ministry of Finance, Finland's GDP will decrease by 5.5% this year if restrictions can now be removed and there will be no second wave. For the following years, the Ministry predicts only an increase of 1.3%, although the forecasts for the European Commission, the IMF, domestic economic research institutes and banks for the next year are 4% on both sides. The difference between these things is enormous. It must be understood that the implementation of these forecasts depends not only on ourselves but also on the recovery of other countries and, in particular, the EU. Domestic demand needs to be taken care of as well as exports to the domestic market. The path to which we then take is more fundamental than the depth of the pit. This applies not only to growth but also to debt. Finland receives an interest-free loan for tens of years, and other countries seem to be in debt even more than Finland. For example, Germany, known for strict economic discipline, announced a recovery package of up to EUR 130 billion last week. It is therefore irrelevant how much the recession and the recovery of mass unemployment cost. It is essential that they are rejected and that debt can thus be reduced after the crisis. It requires that people are not replaced like in the 1990s and that the education of children and young people in Finland should not build a future. Mr President! So far, the worst threats have been rejected. As the report states, determined government action has secured jobs and facilitated the economic situation of businesses. For the time being, the wave of bankruptcy and mass unemployment have been avoided. However, the livelihood of many Finns has deteriorated. According to the SOSTE survey published yesterday, economic problems such as the need for food aid and debt problems have increased. In a survey of the Children's Association, one in four children felt their mental well-being was poor due to an emergency. In low - income families this was experienced by up to 43 per cent. It is therefore important that the government now invests in the welfare programme for children and young people and in the temporary improvement of income support. For the Left Alliance, safeguarding the well-being and livelihood of people is a priority. Mr President! Strengthening income and trust are also essential for the economy. Increasing consumption requires that people are not afraid of infection, that they trust their own economy and that they can afford to spend. Public investment is also key to relaunching the economy. It is easy to agree with all economists that demand needs to be taken care of now and not to block the economy by means of adjustment measures, which will not be until two years later. The opposition, on the other hand, is difficult to understand. After putting forward billions of extra expenses themselves, starting with the flight of empty aircraft, they are now calling for demand-cutting measures. Prolonging the recession with an early belting policy would be both a human and an economic mistake. It seems that the opposition still lives in the '90s and has not noticed that the world around it has changed. In any case, during the 2020s, society will have to be rebuilt in many ways. In this situation, an ideological economic policy is a much greater threat for future generations than a pragmatic approach to debt, especially in a situation where the European Central Bank supports massive purchasing operations. Mr President! Due to exceptional circumstances, the budgetary plan is of a technical nature. In the autumn, when the government updates its economic policy objectives, priority must be given to actions that contribute best to socially, ecologically and economically sustainable development. It is also important to consider the environmental debt that we are leaving for the next generations. A future-oriented and responsible economic policy can only be built on low carbon solutions. In addition, we need to create a sustainable basis for the Finnish economy by raising the level of competence and investing in research and development. Finland will only emerge from this crisis with the help of people who are well-off and highly skilled.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u33	Värderade fru talman! Det är självklart att coronavirusepidemi har ändrat på utsikterna för de offentliga finanserna. Finlands ekonomis är inte den enda berörda, utan hela den globala världs ekonomistin har drabbats. Osäkerheten har berört oss alla, inte minst då det är oklart hur länge epidemi kommer att bulls. Vi har de Senaste månaderna befunnit oss i en situation som ingen kunde se kompa. De economiska utsikterna i dag skilker sig avsevärt från höstens förväntningar om en stabil, dock avtagande tillväxt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u34	Madam President! Warm congratulations on the new demanding task and also wisdom and strength for you. The Christian Democratic Parliament Group emphasises the responsibility of the whole Parliament — responsibility for the Finnish economy. But we particularly emphasise and expect the government to take responsibility for the Finnish economy. The exceptional situation caused by the interest-rate crisis cannot mean that the government has an open spike in its debt without a plan to balance the economy. Public finances will not be corrected by repeatedly postponing decisions. Ambitious goals and road maps to find ambitious targets do not save the economy of the state and municipalities. There is now a need for clear measures to increase employment and control public spending. The structural problems that weaken public finances have not disappeared anywhere. The report notes the need for a permanent reduction in public finances, strengthening the revenue base of public finances and curbing future spending pressures through structural reforms. However, no such action is proposed in the report. Government action has been more the opposite, and debt money is also increasing public spending to targets that are not related to the management of the interest rate crisis. The Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament considers it important that the improvement in the level of care for the elderly is maintained despite the crisis. This was the will of all parties before the parliamentary elections. However, the costs must not be left to the municipalities. The municipalities must be fully compensated for the additional costs of the legislative amendment. All projects that increase the costs of public administration and businesses should be buried — that is, all, such as the gender-neutral social security label project, which brings the additional cost of hundreds of millions to businesses and public finances. On the other hand, efforts must be made to improve security of supply, to tackle the labour problem in agriculture and the problems of profitability, and to ensure domestic production of critical products in the future. There is a need for additional investment in family services and education, but they must be targeted in such a way that the benefits are maximised. The budgetary plan provides for funding, inter alia, for the extension of compulsory education. However, the level of funding is so small that a large part of the costs will be borne by the municipalities. This is not sustainable and reforms of this kind should now be frozen. The committee's report states that we need structural reforms to reduce the need for budgetary adjustment. Key reforms include social and health care reform and social security reform. The government's planned model of social welfare reform, with its numerous regions and additional administration, will not bring any savings. At the latest at this stage, party policy objectives must be abandoned and set out in a parliamentary manner, in consultation with experts, to build a sustainable model for social and health care. According to its own words, the government has many ambitious goals. However, more ambition and clear objectives would be needed to promote social security reform. The reform of social security must be promoted immediately and must be based on the objective of encouraging employment in all situations. The Christian Democrats offer a model of their own encouraging basic security model, in which it is always worthwhile to accept work. The committee takes a position in the report on the increase in the number of Finnish state guarantees and guarantees. However, increasing EU responsibilities are not taken into account in this context. In its report, the Economic Policy Evaluation Council has highlighted the risk to central government finances in the high guarantee portfolio. The absence of an overall assessment of the growing economicresponsibility — both national and EU-related — can contribute to the overall crisisarrangements that can be maintained as a basis for the Constitution Only a madman takes debt to pay off someone else’s debt, who has always been reckless in managing his household. Mr President! Finally, I propose that Parliament approve the statement of objection 3, which includes twelve statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u35	Mr President! Good luck to me, too, on a new challenging task. President! It was remarkable that the government commissioned a report from economic wise economists, and it was remarkable that in its own paper four copies of our highly respected economists, Vesa Vihrälä — from Holmström to Korkman and Uusitalo — took on such an economic thinking as has also been promoted by the government. What I think is significant in this paper was the fact that, now that we have faced such a huge, gigantic, completely new crisis in Finland as well as on the whole earth, it is wise to act in such a way that we first deal with the crisis here and now with acute measures, then we will take massive stimulus, and then we will move on to this sort of normal return and economic adjustment by the end of this decade, as if by the end of this decade. This is the line the government is following, and there is good support for it, and it now has a strong background for economists in its own paper as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u40	Mr President! I support the statements made by Mr Koskela in response to protest 1. The main weakness of this budgetary plan is that it does not include the means of achieving a stable economy, not to mention the surplus and debt reduction. The head will be put in the sand with regard to all the major issues of the future, including indebtedness, employment, job creation, competitiveness, purchasing power, sustainability, moderation of the size of the public sector and the crisis in the euro area, to mention just a few more — yes, there will still be those gender-neutral identity numbers. Interest rate measures were taken too late and too weakly, mainly due to pressure from the opposition. Time and money were wasted on inefficient wringing and settling, there was no leadership. It was unclear who has the power, who has the responsibility, and in Finland we had to try to reinvent the wheel, but we could not learn from the experiences of other countries. Even before the corona, Finland and Europe were going down in the economy. It was already known that the collapse was coming, and now it came with the corona earlier and more violent than expected. For years, the economy had been based on the creation of imaginary money, with little real economic growth in the euro area. At the same time, even a small branch is sawed under with oversized climate measures in Finland and Europe, both nationally and supranationally. The government is still not compromising on past unrealistic expenditure increases, even though they lacked a financial basis in the past. The hundreds of thousands of jobs it would have required will not be created by themselves or, in particular, by the dismantling of former employment measures. At this rate, we are not faced with either tax increases or spending cuts, but both, and it is a vicious circle that continues to feed on economic growth. Perhaps before the corona, the government could think of sweeping these problems under the carpet with debt and the sale of assets; now it will no longer succeed. This cannot be overturned by the next government. The Committee on Finance’s opposition to the Finns of Finland states: ‘Previous speeches on the higher climate leadership of Finland,the greater European solidarity,thehumanitarian development of the countries of immigration and the creation The government might well admit that the situation has changed. Although debt is apparently cheap, it can only be taken into genuinely profitable investments.” There are many wise words here for the government to consider. We've got to redo the government program. Mr President! Finally, on this recovery package for the euro area, when I myself have been sitting in committee for hours and experts hearing that even our own problems would be enough without Finland jointly and severally going to the debt union to pay the interest-rate debts of other countries and to compensate for the poor economic performance of their countries. Finnish taxpayers are not required to pay the reduction in VAT rates in Italy and Germany or to finance the Spanish basic income experiments. Finnish taxpayers' money is for the benefit of Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u41	Madam President! This budgetary plan is already out of date, because the amending budget before us tomorrow will no longer fit in its frame, and this should certainly be taken into account when looking at these future economic figures, namely that Finland is about to take on EUR 19 billion this year and that year is only halfway through. We understand in the assembly that to deal with the corona crisis, debt must be taken out, but what we do not understand is that the government is unable to decide on structural reforms that will create the conditions for how to deal with these debts later. Reviving expenditure increases from our point of view should have been decided at the same time as reforms to boost employment, and a credible plan is also needed on how to pay off debt in the future and to stop this indebtedness trend. The Bank of Finland has today warned against rising unemployment. I am very concerned about young people, because during the last term of the government, we achieved a reduction in youth unemployment. The number of young people not in education and working life turned to a marked decline, and now it seems that with the corona there is less faith and hope for the future for young people. There is a need for credible measures to restore and strengthen this belief in the future. Last August, the Coalition Party already carried out a credible programme in paragraph 16 on the creation of 60,000 new jobs in Finland, and that was the beginning. We are prepared to make further proposals. But more than a year has passed since the government took action and these employment measures have not been seen. In fact, the government's balance is in the cold that the reforms that the government has made so far have had a negative impact on employment. Of course we understand that, with the corona crisis, the economy is also in a very challenging international situation, but it continues to underline the importance of its reform. The new Minister for Finance, Matti Vanhanen, has spoken with confidence about the need for economic adjustment, but today the Prime Minister has already pulled the carpet from under his feet, and it must therefore be asked of the centre whether you will continue to look at this activity for a long time, in which your speech and the reality of the government are absolutely at odds. And I would like to ask the honourable SDP representatives whether the SDP's plan is to transfer debt management and all these unfortunate, difficult structural decisions to a truly future government. Because that's what it sounds like in your speech. And Mr Viitanen, you referred to the report by Mrs Vihrälä. We are well pleased that its actions are being carried out, but we have such an impression that it is time to read it by choice. I would therefore like to read one important quote to you from the report of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance on page 95: ‘It is therefore important that the objectives of the policy of adjustment and employment and productivity are also defined in the same way that significant solutions for economic recovery are decided. Believability also requires that these policies can be specified and implemented as soon as possible during the current Government term.” - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u42	Mr President! I think it is good to hear that Mr Grahn-Laasonen is also here and that there are concerns about young people and about this situation, which is what the corona virus epidemic and this situation are causing for the situation and uncertainty of young people about the future. There is also concern in the government, in the government parties, but not only to be concerned, but also to act. Minister Kosonen is here, and under his leadership there is an increase in starting places for higher education institutions, and they are concrete steps to enable young people to hope for the future and to study. I think this is an excellent thing, and I am sure that together we can say that this is a great thing that will be done. Mr President! It is understandable that we cannot now and that this budgetary plan has not been able to provide very precise forecasts and an idea of what the future of the near future will look like here through government measures, because we are now actually living in a fairly foggy economy. We do not know how long this virus-induced health crisis will last and at what stage and how quickly the economy will start to recover. Like the Committee on Finance in its report, I also welcome the fact that the government has implemented the active fiscal policies required by the situation and has launched rapidly, during the spring, a range of measures to support the economy. This corona crisis brings us to the path of a sustainable economy through a three-step programme. Firstly, we need to get out of the acute crisis as quickly as possible into normal conditions. Right now we are walking this path and at the same time we have built a bridge for Finnish companies across its deepest gap. This is necessary in order to safeguard Finnish jobs and well-being. We are gradually entering the second stage where, through resuscitation, we not only provide people with livelihoods but also grease the wheels of the economy. At this stage, it is not worth taking drastic adjustment measures; instead, we need to get the wheels of the economy running and employment back on track. They're laid off back to work, employment up. Then there comes the third stage, which is also ahead of us, where social reforms, adjustment, both expenditure adjustment and tax adjustment need to be made with certainty. In the long term, we must bring our economy to a sustainable path, employment to a sustainable path, and also to a situation where debt can be stabilised in such a way that it does not increase in relation to our national product. These decisions must also be taken during the autumn. We need to build that road map and carry out the related social, labour-related reforms. This autumn is their time, but we must remember that we are still in the middle of a crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u43	Mr President! The post-corona situation is heavy worldwide. The need for aid is increasing, private investment is decreasing, and total output and trade are expected to fall. These concerns also have a strong impact on the euro area. The decision-making process must prioritise recovery measures that contribute to sustainable development in the best possible way. Throughout the world, resuscitation is also seen as an opportunity to guide action to accelerate the construction of a low carbon society. This is the opportunity of this crisis that must not be missed in Finland either. The Green Recovery may include improving energy efficiency, increasing renewable energy production and reducing transport emissions. High skills in these areas are also an export asset for companies. A high level of competence is a prerequisite for the success of a small export-driven country in the future. It is important to ensure that Finland does not fall short as the population ages and education levels fall. A high level of competence will safeguard the conditions for growth. Invest in the quality of education throughout the levels of education, increase higher education places, invest in continuous learning and increase the level of RD funding. It must also be possible to extend working careers and improve the employment of young people. The employment of older people must be invested in by supporting part-time work, opportunities for part-time work and overall well-being, e.g. through measures to promote health and mobility. Mr President! If immigration remains at the current level, the number of foreign-language speakers will more than double in Finland by 2040. The skills level and learning outcomes of the foreign-language population are currently in pursuit of the native population. When considering the prerequisites for Finland’s success, it is necessary to recognise this change and the need to invest in integration and education right now. The growth of the foreign-language population is concentrated in the largest cities. More than 205,000 foreign-language speakers already live in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, i.e. as many as there are residents in Oulu. Most of the growth hits the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. Turku and Tampere will follow. These changes further reinforce the need to take into account the different development and financing needs of municipalities. The economic situation of municipalities has also been affected differently by the interest rate. The financial damage caused by an epidemic of interest is particularly felt by large cities due, among other things, to the income structure based on tax and operating revenue and the service-intensive business structure. Compensation for all municipalities was significantly introduced in the amending budget. It seems clear that, in order to maintain the level of service, more funding will need to be provided once more impact assessments have been made. Finally, on the personal identity code reform that emerged here: its aim is to modernise personal data management, increase information security and prevent identity theft.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u44	Mr President! Even in the midst of the crisis, it is important to create a sustainable basis for the Finnish economy by investing in well-being, knowledge and ecological reconstruction. This is a forward-looking and responsible economic policy. We do not want to repeat the mistakes of the recession of the 1990s, which is precisely why the government is now safeguarding people's well-being and livelihoods, defending jobs and creating the conditions for growth. The right-wing opposition has already called for cutting lists and fomented uncertainty in the midst of the crisis. Finland, Europe and the world are likely to face a massive recession. The only way to deal with it is to resuscitate it. Yet the right-wing opposition would like to tighten the economic policy line, drive down the public sector and plunge our country into an ever deeper recession. Is that what the children and grandchildren would thank us for? We are in the middle of a crisis, and fortunately we have a government that focuses on safeguarding people's well-being and livelihoods and economic recovery. Mr President! The number of unemployed is expected to continue to increase during the summer and autumn. As early as 73% of social workers estimate that food aid needs have increased and that good 40% say that rent breaks and other debt problems have become more common during the emergency period. People's livelihood and well-being must be maintained and maintained. Among other things, the self-reliance days of unemployment benefit have been abolished and entrepreneurs have also been brought into the scope of unemployment benefit. The latest amending budget includes, among other things, a support package for children and young people and an improvement in income support. The budgetary plan, in turn, ensures the financing of the extension of compulsory education and also the dimension of the 0.7 maintenance staff of elderly services. It is also necessary for longer-term growth to strengthen productivity. It is therefore necessary to invest in training, increasing training places, continuous learning and raising skills to reduce labour shortages, promote employment and the emergence of innovations. They are also key tools for achieving the goals of a digital, carbon neutral and climate-sustainable economy. Mr President! Our committee stresses the need to monitor the long-term economic impact of the pandemic beyond 2020 and to ensure compensation for the additional expenditure and income losses associated with the epidemic for the municipal economy. As a member of the committee, it is easy to agree with this emphasis on the report. It is also estimated that the crisis will increase welfare and health inequalities, and it is therefore particularly important to ensure that adequate resources are allocated in the future to child protection, mental health and substance abuse services, support for families with children, measures to reduce exclusion and compliance with the time limits of the care guarantee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u45	Irade the Talman! When the government programme was written, we lived in a completely different situation: we had prospects of economic growth and the employment rate of 75% was a fully achievable target. Now we are living in a situation where the economy will dive closer to 10 per cent this year and hundreds of thousands of Finns are at risk of losing their jobs. The export industry is facing very difficult challenges. German exports of the European locomotive fell by 31% in April. It is a staggeringly large drop, and it will also be visible in our export-driven economy. At the same time, when our own cost competitiveness appears to be deteriorating according to the forecast published just now by the Bank of Finland, it can be said that the perfect storm is complete. During the Korona Spring, we have talked a lot about service sectors, restaurants for good reason, because these industries took the first punch in the corona spring. But much more essential for our longer-term economic development is the way things are going for our investment-intensive industry. If our export companies fail, not only will we lose jobs, but we will also lose the opportunity to get our economy back on the path of growth relatively quickly. International value chains are not just being rebuilt. Mr President! Mr Vanhanen, Minister of Finance, said yesterday that we should be grateful for Germany's recovery of EUR 130 billion. If Germany succeeds, it will be of tremendous benefit to us. This is an essential observation. What Sweden, Germany or something else is doing in our important export countries is of great benefit to us. But we can't leave this job to others. On the one hand, the Government Programme is based on long-term competitiveness reforms, but it is also based on increasing employment. You can't pass this other leg now. Of course, it's premature to talk about surgical lists, but we need to talk about adjustment. We can chew gum and walk at the same time. The problem won't get any smaller if we push it in front of us. The snowball that is on the move is growing, and therefore the time for employment measures is not later but now. It is also about fairness and social responsibility. Work is the best social security and we do not have the right not to turn every stone in order to achieve the employment objective. A week ago, Vesa Vipriälä, a professor of working life, spoke of the need to raise the employment target to 77% to 78% and that this objective could be pursued within five years. This should also be a government objective, because all the good that we are seeking depends on this. When we consider employment measures, we are in a happy position not to have to reinvent the wheel. Many of the reforms that we should be doing in our neighbouring countries have been made. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u46	Mr President! First of all, I support Mr Laukkanen's objection 3. The report notes the need for a permanent reduction in public finances, strengthening the revenue base of public finances and curbing future spending pressures through structural reforms. However, no such action is proposed in this report, but rather the opposite has been done by the government and public spending is being increased through debt money. In addition to the necessary support measures and resuscitation, the government is increasing its permanent expenditure. I listened carefully to Mr Adlercreutz's speech, and I must say that it had a slightly different tone from what has been in the government's exits so far, and I hope that the government will now take on board those words which put particular emphasis on this employment, because employment is crucial to a sustainable economy. Unfortunately, these employment measures on the part of the government have only been kept waiting. The increase in employment cannot be left to the future governments, but employment must be increased already during this parliamentary term, and employment must be raised by a couple of percentage points already during this parliamentary term after the crisis, and action must be taken to bring it up to 80% by the end of the decade. It is not just public investment and wage subsidies that are enough to improve employment, but measures are indeed needed to enable new jobs to be created in the private sector. It is particularly important to improve the competitiveness of the export industry and, indeed, to dare to introduce tools for working life and, for example, to promote local reconciliation. Mr President! The government is currently taking on significant new debt. This year, the State will only take up 18.8 billion in debt to date. Although debt is currently at low interest rates, it is extremely important to keep debt under control. As the committee points out in its report, the high debt ratio reduces the scope for fiscal policy in the context of subsequent recessions. We cannot afford uncontrollable debt, and we therefore believe that the debt ratio must be reduced at the latest by about 80% of GDP, preferably even before that. In its report, the committee also draws attention to the increase in the number of Finnish state guarantees and guarantees. According to Eurostat statistics, the ratio of Finnish government and central government guarantees to total output was the highest in the EU countries in 2018, but these future EU liabilities have not yet been taken into account. In that sense, Mr President, it is very important that Finland should not be linked to these growing EU responsibilities, because we must also take into account what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has set out, and that we should be able to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u47	Mr President! The budgetary plan has been drawn up in a context where the real prospects for economic development will be very difficult to assess over the coming months and years. Although the coalition has already called for actual cuts, the plan does not yet include an economic stabilisation programme, and there are very strong reasons for this. The government is pursuing an economic and fiscal policy that is strongly reviving the crisis and immediately thereafter, avoiding direct savings and cuts. Although the acute management of the crisis and the recovery are indebtedness of public finances, it is now necessary. This line will receive strong support from experts looking at the overall picture of the economy in the longer term. They stress that although solutions to the sustainability problem of public finances must be actively sought, consolidation must be done gradually. The government will take this step and take the situation seriously. It is now important to ensure that the conditions for sustainable and stable economic growth are safeguarded. Without them, there is no room for economic recovery. Crisis support for business has been necessary, but this alone is not enough. Strengthening Finnish exports and creating new work require a strong investment in knowledge and education, research and innovation. Major infrastructure projects are also a key element of growth and recovery, which are now being launched. But we also need investment in people's well-being, health and safety. The fourth budget for the year includes a number of measures to respond to these needs not only in the midst of the current crisis, but also in the long term. We have plenty of time to discuss these tomorrow, but let me say that we cannot afford to repeat the mistakes made during the recession in the 1990s. We are still paying the sick debt that was incurred at that time, and we have not yet fully recognised it. The Coalition Party is concerned about debt, but they obviously cannot calculate the price for ill health and human suffering, let alone see the cost of it as factors that slow down the growth of the future or, let alone, be seen as a debt that must be repaid. The structural reforms included in the Government Programme are essential, the reform of social welfare and health care systems and the extension of compulsory schooling in the first place. It is important to note that future investment should be considered as a whole. In addition to increasing the well-being of citizens, they form part of a stimulating policy and form the basis for sustainable growth and employment in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u48	Mr President! The fourth draft amending budget of the year submitted to Parliament on 5 June 2020 will increase central government expenditure in such a way that net borrowing is estimated to rise to EUR 18.8 billion in the current year, and this figure does sound terrible. The state of public finances is the sum of many consequences, it has not been facilitated by the corona crisis, but, overall, the state of public finances is horrendous. Finland’s gross domestic product is estimated to fall sharply. Employment is falling, unemployment is rising, and layoffs are continuing. At the same time, the rapid increase in social and health care expenditure further tightens the finances of municipalities and makes it difficult to organise basic services. The interest-rate crisis and its preparation have caused an inscrutable need for service, and there are a lot of people waiting in waiting lists for follow-up. Urgent times have been moved, and social and health care services have been in a predicament throughout the spring, when the epidemic has rightly been prepared. Now these treatment lines need to be dismantled and urgently, but it will require a great deal of resources, debt-taking and future tax evasion. Debt is taken and debt is used, but it must not be used to buy future electoral polls or to buy the profits of the next election. It now seems that there are no limits to debt-taking and money-sharing. Money is also being drawn in different directions. Planality and logic are exhausted. The government should soon find that, although the debt is seemingly cheap, it can only be taken into genuinely profitable investments. The action seems shortsighted, and the style of dragging after things continues. There should now be a clear view of how to start paying the interest rate bill. The Government should quickly decide on measures to support the local government finances, even before autumn. The plans for the second wave of the corona virus epidemic to arrive in Finland and meet us in the autumn should also be well advanced. We should be prepared for different scenarios. — Are you, the government, prepared that the corona wave number two will be in front of us in the autumn? Finland is now, if ever, facing a real priority. However, these priorities must not be made for care of the elderly, not for informal care, or hospice care. Caretakers must be brought to the finish line, but their funding must be found elsewhere than in digital services or pharmaceutical reimbursements. Mr President! In the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, it is gratifying that the Finnish people's proposals on the inclusion of a therapeutic guarantee, among other things, are:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u49	Mr President! Mr Eestilä gave a group speech to the Assembly, and he said in it that it was an honour for Finland to manage our economy responsibly. That's right. We can be trusted, we pay our debts — but there is a pragmatic aspect to this, of course, that if we settle our debts and we know it in the world, then the credit rating will remain and we will get debt on good terms. But now that we see what's happened this year, we're taking some pretty loose debt. According to this amending budget, which is under discussion this week, Finland will take up nearly EUR 19 billion of debt this year. There are a lot of good things in the amending budget, such as increasing start-up places for universities and investing in children and young people, but there are also many things that could probably be postponed. It would not be absolutely necessary to invest in them at this stage. If you look at the government program, there will be 1.4 billion permanent additional expenses. But in reality these are not investments; these are expenditures, and this will also be quite a lot of feedback from the municipalities, for example, to the parliamentarians here. Municipalities are also in distress this year — when public finances are spoken of. If I look at my own hometown of Espoo, we will lose an estimated EUR 100 million in tax revenue this year, which is not a very small amount when we think about what to start patching it up with. Mr President! In the hearing with the Committee on Economic Affairs, the experts estimate that this year our GDP will fall between 5.5% and 13%, but how it will be achieved is also very much dependent on how exports develop — we have had exports, foreign trade accounting for 40% of gross domestic product — and it is therefore very dependent on how this end year and the period from now on will go. And it is particularly important to see how the situation in Germany, the United States, Russia and Sweden is developing, because these are the most important trading partners for us. Exports in Finland are still too infrastructural, the technology industry's share is quite high, and in practice it is precisely these infra-investments that the countries are the first to compromise if there are problems in the economy. So that means that we should invest in diversifying exports. In the last Government Programme During the Sipilä period, the objective was to double the exports of small and medium-sized enterprises, but unfortunately this objective has not been seen in this government programme and I would like to see it returned to that. One question is also the flexibility of the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u50	Mr President! Many of us MPs are also the municipal decision-makers and know that even before the corona crisis, the economic situation in the municipalities was difficult. The cash flow from operations and investments will remain strongly negative during the monitoring period, and the loan stock will also continue to grow. The lack of room for manoeuvre is the result of an increase in social and health care needs and expenditure, a high level of investment and a high level of repair debt in the built environment due to an ageing population. The new challenge is the corona epidemic. Its exceptional arrangements, in particular, reduce the tax revenues of municipalities but also increase their expenditure and increase future financial liabilities. Part of the municipalities' income from payments and rents is also not received. The Ministry of Finance estimates that the corona epidemic will reduce the local government finances by between EUR 1.6 billion and EUR 2 billion in the current year. The impact varies from one municipality to another. It is also estimated that the crisis will cause long-term expenditure for several years, even though the focus of epidemic costs is in 2020 and 2021. However, this fourth draft amending budget, including a package of measures of EUR 1.4 billion, will improve the situation in local government finances in a short time. This package includes direct state aid to medical districts, a fixed-term increase in the share of municipal corporation tax, a fixed-term increase in the share of the central government in basic municipal services and an increase in the discretionary share of the state. It is also necessary and a good thing that the government is prepared to complete the package of measures for municipalities, if necessary, in the August budget debate, by which time the impact assessments of the corona crisis have been revised. Mr President! The long-term economic impact of the interest rate epidemic must also be monitored after 2020 and compensation for additional expenditure and loss of income associated with the epidemic must be ensured for the local government economy. The crisis is also expected to increase welfare and health inequalities. It is therefore necessary to ensure that sufficient resources continue to be allocated to child protection, mental health and substance abuse services, support for families with children, measures to reduce exclusion and compliance with the time limits of the care guarantee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u51	Mr President! We live in extraordinary and challenging times. In order to cope with the problem of interest rates, we now need confidence that we can revive the country's economy and secure people's personal livelihoods in a sustainable way so that everyone can keep up with it. The central goal of the Government is to make Finland the first carbon-neutral welfare society by 2035. Extensive recovery measures after the interest crisis provide an opportunity to accelerate green reconstruction, which will bring Finland on its feet and make our society sustainable for the environment and people. The Covid-19 Science Panel has highlighted the need to build a new, ambitious, responsible and environmentally sustainable society through stimulus measures. Deeper instruction in the pandemic should also be taken seriously. Finland also needs to step up significantly its efforts to protect biodiversity. The rise from the corona crisis will provide the opportunity to make a system-level change in Finland's reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the creation of a climate-sustainable business structure. Social acceptability and fairness are also important for the success of climate action. Mr President! The Committee on the Environment also issued an opinion on the budgetary plan. The Committee stresses that climate change and the loss of biodiversity together represent a challenge that is even greater than the corona epidemic and threatens the conditions for the survival of mankind, albeit in the longer term. The loss of biodiversity and climate change are inextricably linked and the threats they pose must be addressed simultaneously. This is why resources and attention need to be focused in particular on coping with the crisis in a way that at the same time promotes the exit from fossil fuels and the transition towards a low-carbon society, and that is how the government will make a sustainable recovery through its actions. Mr President! By investing in combating climate change and halting natural degradation, we can at the same time support employment, the economy and exports. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection points out that efforts towards recovery measures, even with significant measures to support employment, should not, at the same time, make it difficult for the long term to move towards a fair transition towards climate-neutral structures. Mr President! The budgetary plan now under discussion is of a technical nature and does not include any significant new policy decisions. The economic policy package will return to the budget debate in August, when the road map for sustainable taxation will be laid down, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u52	Mr President! The Hetemäe Group of Chancellors and the Group of Economic Wise Men of Vipriälä suggest that the additional debt of around EUR 20 billion arising from the economic crisis and the interest rate measures will be closed by a ‘pain package’, which would amount to between EUR 7 and 10 billion. There would be cuts and ominous structural reforms. This is the case, although it is clear that improving the status of ordinary people would now be important and would require significant additional investment in social security and services. There has not been much of that, even though people’s daily lives are becoming more difficult, their livelihoods are deteriorating, and social problems are growing in the country day by day. The Social Barometer 2020 tells of growing social problems. The need for food aid has doubled. The number of rents and debt problems and the need for income support have increased. At the same time, Kela, for example, has not been able to meet these needs. Regrettably, the government's efforts to date have been limited in line with people's needs. In the fourth amending budget, a fixed-term increase of EUR 60 million in central government expenditure is expected to increase to last-minute income security, income support. The increase is very welcome, but the measure is something quite different than, for example, for companies. In the course of the corona crisis, businesses have been offered 15 billion to 20 billion different economic benefits and funding, depending on the way in which they are invoiced. Mr President! One of the targets in public spending seems to be protected from all cuts. It's an HX project. It's a new fighter procurement program. The impact of the HX project on the general government deficit and government debt is very significant. The fighter project will increase the debt by at least EUR 10 billion between 21 and 30 years. The price of the HX project in the Government Programme was set at EUR 7 to 10 billion, but last October the Committee on Economic Policy raised it to EUR 10 billion. According to the information in Suomen Kuvalehti, it was decided at the same time that life-cycle costs should not exceed one tenth of defence expenditure. According to estimates based on international examples, costs are lower. As in the past, the acquisition of their replacements will also be carried through with an under-estimation of costs. Mr President! Finally, the consultation mandates now leading to the change of Minister for Finance should be clarified carefully for the whole Government. There's a lot more at stake than ministers' performance skills. Tekir, who sold consultancy services to the Ministry of Finance, and Harri Saukomaa, are the F-35-manufacturer in charge of the HX project, Lockheed Martin. In this situation, it is very important to ask and find out: how far into the Finnish Ministry of Finance is the hand of this American arms manufacturer Lockheed Martin? — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u53	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Indeed, the budgetary plan has been drawn up in a situation where the outlook for the economy has changed abruptly and strongly as a result of an ongoing virus pandemic. The picture is quite different from the budgetary plan discussed last autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u54	Mr President! This time, the budgetary plan has been drawn up in a situation where there are exceptional circumstances in the country, both in the Emergency Act and in the European Union's Stability and Growth Pact, and that is why this report does not actually contain a plan for the coming years, and now there are enormous expectations for the budget debate. The statements made by the new finance minister Matti Vanhanen, who was appointed today, have been promising, and I wish him every success in this work in order to achieve a career in which Finland can continue to succeed. After all, the government is going to have to make, and it is expected to have strong decisions, strong decisions, if the economy is to be managed in a sustainable and fair way for future generations. In order not to leave us, as if, under the pretext of corona epiemia, a long-term thorn for various billion-dollar amending budgets and additional debts open, we urgently need a plan to strengthen employment measures, that is, this employment policy programme, and also effective structural reforms. It is good that the government has taken this social reform forward now, but it does raise concerns about whether it is sufficiently ambitious to manage the economy. Then I would also encourage the government to speed up and speed up the timetable for social security reform, because we need reforms to the whole of social security and taxation, where it is always worthwhile to take up work and do work, and here I would like to encourage the government to look at the proposal of the Christian Democrats for the last parliamentary term to reform social security. structural problems undermining public finances, above all the ageing of the population and the reduction in labour force;
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u55	Mr President! In accordance with many economic guidelines, the government has taken decisive steps to stabilise our economy. In the current acute epidemic situation, we need strong additional efforts in health care, in support of businesses and in strengthening households' livelihoods, as layoffs and redundancies are now testing a large number of people. The report of Professor Vesa Vipriälä's Group of Financial Experts supports the government's economic policy and its timing. In the light of the relaxation of measures to limit the epidemic of interest, it is essential that the government strengthens the economy and the confidence of people and businesses in the future. Public investment in transport projects and housing creates work and also mobilises individual investments. It is also essential to ensure that all regions have a career in growth and that investments are spread evenly across the country, which is the best way to strengthen our economy as a whole and our employment. Timely recovery measures must strengthen both the immediate recovery of the economy and the creation of longer-term growth conditions by investing in research, product development, education and the strengthening of skills. Mr President! Our municipalities produce a lion's share of our welfare services. The problems of local government finances existed even before the corona crisis. It is therefore of paramount importance to take care of the financial situation of our municipalities so that the municipalities are not forced to drift into a spiral of layoffs, redundancies and the dismantling of services. The broad municipal package of the government is now creating greater visibility for municipalities towards the future, but it is also important to continue to monitor the local government finances situation. The next stop will be the end of the summer budget line, so it is possible to review the state of municipal finances. The third step in economic activity will be fiscal consolidation. The consolidation of public finances must be timely. In strengthening the economy, attention must also be paid to structural reform, as is now the case with the reform of social welfare and health care, which is progressing under the guise of interest rate news, and the strengthening of skills in further training places. The government is wisely committed to establishing a common road map to strengthen public finances and stabilise the debt ratio by the end of the decade. It is also important to note that public finances can also be strengthened in a fair manner without resorting to long-term reduction lists.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u56	Mr President! I congratulate your new colleague, Mr Vehviläinen, on his election, and I wish you all well for the tournament. I also wish Mr Vanhanen a reasonable success, good health and a longer term of office for his predecessors. When we look at the key figures for central government finances, we can agree that it would be important for the country as a whole for the government to get its ranks in order and stabilise its operational capacity. Otherwise, Finland’s future does not look rosy. Mr Vanhanen is already the fourth Minister of Finance since June. Few people will remember that last June, as Minister of Finance, was married by representative Orpo. This should be borne in mind when listening here to the bourgeois talk about the state of public finances. According to estimates, the central government budget deficit will rise to more than 7 billion by the end of the spending limits period. When considering the additional budget, it has to come to the conclusion that the government is seeking political support through debt-driven growth. In the old red mulch division policy there is a significant increase in Lapland, which whips the middle class that has been burdened with the tax. Green reconstruction was mentioned here — sounds like a delightful term, ecosocialism. It consists of the elements of Marxism, socialism and green ideology. In ecosoticism, society, as we know it, will over time be in crisis and will result in a paralysing of the social order. Citizens working in Ecosocialism are overly burdened with free expropriation and the funds received are redirected to cultural Marxist utopia. Such a development should not be tolerated. It would be difficult to justify tax increases to Finns when the amount of VAT in the gift money package in Italy, Spain, France and Greece is lower than in Finland. Even if some of them now have salmon and squid on their plate, tax increases would feed on the current purchasing power and future growth. As regards the bridge that Mr Kiviranta has raised, it is a drawbridge, where the bridge is left to Italy and the landing to Finland. The adoption of the European Union debt package would have an impact on the state's financial position and credit rating. In the spending limits period, an increase in interest rates is likely to be expected. As far as tax revenue is concerned, however, my own view is that the budget debate will not necessarily be as challenging as the public is proposing. This is justified by the fact that the significant reduction in tax revenues has been assessed by the prolongation of the interest rate crisis, and yet already many sectors in the internal market are returning to normal, and I therefore believe that more tax revenues will be achieved. However, I encourage the government to adjust the economy and avoid spending increases. True Finns require:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u57	Mr President! The Government's report on the budgetary plan under discussion 21-24 is an important guideline. Finland must continue to be a responsible Nordic country for economic policy. The Coalition Party has objected to the report by the Committee on Finance that debt cannot be kept indefinitely. Due to the actions of the Marin and Rinte government, Finland’s public finances were in an unsustainable career even before the corona crisis. Fortunately, past governments have made it possible, through their actions, to provide buffers for the current government to take on additional debt and to deal with the acute situation. However, the only objective must be to cover the direct costs of the interest rate, to cover companies over the crisis, and to provide for a well-considered recovery. The opinion of the Committee on Finance is that ‘the Member State requires that the government is engaged in quantitative measures to stabilise public finances at stages by strengthening the conditions for sustainable economic growth,employment,competitiveness,knowledge and This is a hard entry. It has been signed by the government parties, but will it lead to concrete measures for the government? It was interesting to listen today to the policies of the newly elected Finance Minister and also of the Centre: the outlook for the economy has changed, action to boost employment is needed quickly, a policy for growth and employment needs to be sought, more local reconciliation, EUR 7 billion for adjustment and so on. The SDP's group speech had a softer tone: action is needed, public finances will be balanced later, employment measures sometimes in the autumn. The Left Alliance then had nothing to worry about the economy: a couple of years can be spent with debt money very well, and then we'll think about more. Mr President! Citizens must always rely on Finland to stand on a strong pedestal and to endure even in a bad place. Citizens need to have faith in the future to recover from the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, these economic policies of yours are contradictory. Who's going to decide what's going on here? Tell me — even Mr Savola, in the next speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u60	Mr President! First of all, I would like to congratulate both the new Parliamentary President Anu Vehviläinen and the Minister for Finance Matti Vanhanen. I believe that in this situation we will get the best finance minister in Finland. We need stability and experience to overcome these challenges. The interest-rate crisis has put us in an exceptional situation: in the last two and a half, three months, there have been exceptional laws, different restrictions and different problems, which have come here on a daily or weekly basis as a result of this crisis. That is what has been achieved in the most important area of disease prevention. We have very few victims, and that is, of course, the most important point, that is, people above us in this regard. Well, of course we have wanted to pay attention, and in a way, even through this crisis, we have recalled the basics of security of supply, the fact that we have our own food production, energy, medicines and protective equipment. Some of these have been in short supply, especially in the pharmaceutical and protective sectors, but this is what we are going over. So let us also remember the basics in the long term when economic reforms and adjustments are being made. These are the key to us. Well, let's resuscitate. Let's resuscitate with quite a lot of money. This additional budget, which will be discussed in this Chamber, is exceptionally large. In addition to this, there have been measures which have been taken to support companies in different ways and which have been tried to build a bridge for companies and for this society over this crisis. This is a lot of money, and we're taking a lot of debt now. This recovery budget, which is being presented to us, contains specific measures specifically for infrastructure, is for education. But it is probably central to public finances to remember that in this additional budget almost EUR 1.5 billion — EUR 1.4 billion — are now being given to municipalities, because they are, after all, providing basic services for us people over there. In particular, municipal courts and health care are on the wane. For example, in the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia, it is estimated that this pandemic will cause losses of between EUR 12 million and EUR 14 million, with an estimated municipal share of between 11 million and 13 million. The treatment lines are getting longer, people are not currently treating themselves, and this will be repeated in the coming years. So we should pay particular attention to this municipal economy and also remember these joint municipal authorities, such as the hospital districts, and that is why, for example, the population base would be a good way to give this allowance to the medical districts there. Mr. Speaker! Finally. It is essential to have jobs in the long term. Companies, jobs, tax revenues, confidence in businesses, confidence in investment, trust in employment — this needs
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u61	Mr President! Acute action is needed here and now for the benefit of people and the economy, but the budgetary plan also challenges us to reflect on the prospects and development of the longer term. While we must do everything we can to slow down and combat the ongoing pandemic, we must also be able to see the time after that, with its risks, but also with its possibilities. Now that the economy is to be strongly revived, we must also take account of social and ecological sustainability alongside economic sustainability. Mr President! Despite the Koronapandemia, curbing global warming remains the most important challenge for mankind. Unsustainable development threatens the viability of the earth and poses a greater threat to health and the economy than the corona virus. In its own opinion, the Committee on the Future stressed that controlling global warming is not a problem in the sense that we cannot solve it. It's a matter of common will. Finland must be an example of this, because we have the ability and the ability to act as a pioneer. Finland has traditionally been and continues to be highly skilled in, for example, the technology industry and related design and process know-how, and this opens up a large market for Finland where we are already competitive. The bioeconomy is also our strength and competitive advantage. Mr President! In order to gain public confidence, this so-called green transition must be done fairly and at the same time contribute to sustainable job-creating growth and everyday well-being, as well as to supporting the operating conditions and competitiveness of Finnish companies in international markets. A pioneering approach to these issues requires investment in research, science, innovation and quality education at all levels of education from early childhood education to higher education. Trained, skilled and skilled citizens are our best asset in global competition. President! There is also a need for particular attention to social sustainability. During the corona crisis, Finns have been confident that society will take care of everyone and that no one will be left to their own devices, and this same climate of trust is important also to maintain the corona in post-care. We still need a message that we will overcome this crisis together. In this process, hope and trust are key issues. Now we also need a renewed resilience, that is, the resilience of change and the Finnish spirit. The treatment of the recession in the early 1990s was particularly unsuccessful in helping children and young people and families to overcome the crisis and, as a result, many of those who had spent their childhood and youth became hopeless in many ways in society for several decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u62	Mr President! The municipalities are the foundation of society. When a welfare policy based on the state, municipalities and markets fails, something new and effective is needed. The current operating models have largely lived up to their time — this is reflected in the extremely poor economic situation prior to the corona of municipalities. The bad economic situation is highlighted during the crisis. After all, in this situation, the municipalities are not even trying to revive them, but are now simply compensating for the massive costs of the interest rate. So the situation in the municipalities is really gloomy. The EUR 1.4 billion promised in the fourth amending budget for municipalities and health care districts will not be enough, as the impact of the interest rate will be at least EUR 2 billion. This would therefore be needed to remedy the situation, not to revive it. In the last ten years, the central government shares of municipalities have fallen by 9% and there has been an increasing number of tasks, although they have had to be reduced and it has been promised that the additional costs of the new tasks will be fully reimbursed. For example, cities the size of Jyväskylä also make about 100 million minuses this year. To support the economy of municipalities, I would suggest developing and investing in the social economy. Civil society has been a great asset in the history of Finland, and I would see that it is possible to help Finland and the municipalities out of the abyss this time too. In the social economy, maximising neo-liberal benefits is not at the heart of the economy, but the aim is to increase both social and psychological well-being in addition to livelihood. Social economy actors include associations, cooperatives and organisations that operate on a wide field of games, filling the void of traditional welfare and other services. Mr President! The municipalities have unused resources and resources, and the pooling and coordination of these resources will enable society and municipalities. However, the delimitation must be clear. Of course, not all tasks can be outsourced. For example, the role of organisations and associations must be primarily to prevent social problems. Municipalities could function in hybrid form. In this model I presented, public authorities, businesses, parishes, cooperatives, associations and organisations would cooperate and coordinate with each other, complement each other and independently. Difficult times and recessions often highlight the potential of civic orientation and self-activity. There have already been some delightful examples of this already in the course of the corona. To reconcile this puzzle requires skill to lead and coordinate. There is an unfortunate management deficit in the current local authority. The government should pay attention to this deficit in order to maximise the potential of society's resources. If municipalities are able to take the catch and understand the possibility of this hybrid model I have presented, it would be possible to avoid many unfortunate mergers of municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u63	Mr President! Now that the new red soil is gone and the old red soil is back, we must hope that the old one is better. I would also like to congratulate the new Finance Minister on Old — he is in the process of dealing with EU affairs at the moment — and I would like to wish and hope that he will immediately become Minister of Finance. This country needs someone like that right now. In this JTS, the government itself states: ‘It is also necessary to decide on structural measures to restore Finland to a sustainable growth,high employment and sustainable public finances after the crisis. “ We agree with the assembly, but we have to ask: why is this tumultuous entry not followed by one single measure? The report of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also states: ‘It is important that the objectives of the policy on adjustment and employment and productivity are also defined in the light of significant economicrecovery. Believability also requires that these policies can be specified and implemented as soon as possible during the current Government term.” One measure does not include this budgetary plan. It is therefore necessary that, when we vote tomorrow, additional permanent expenditure for municipalities and the state should be abandoned. We call for measures to improve employment, and we expect, as an example, that, now that billions are being spent, does not there really find 35 million people to implement the Youth Therapy Guarantee, and we also raise concerns about the state of services for the elderly and about the fact that measures are now being taken which change one part and are likely to weaken other services for the elderly. We expect that this will also be the subject of a proposal for a correction to the House. Tomorrow, Parliament will vote — including those in the centre, those on the patriot’s side, those in the defence of the country — on whether or not the HX project is to be adhered to during this period, and also on the way in which rural roads will be maintained. We expect the amounts of asphalt to be increased to more than 6000 kilometres a year during a cheaper asphalt. Mr President! I propose a change in line with protest 2, which would take Finland on a much more responsible economic path.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u64	Mr President! As you listened to this discussion, you wondered if the Swedish People’s Party and the Left Alliance were in the same government. The RKP immediately called for export and employment measures and also for the immediate initiation of adjustment measures. In the Left Alliance, on the other hand, Mr Saramo insisted that nothing should be done for two years. I can't believe you're running from this responsibility. What then is the central line in this red government, where the red majority determines the direction of division policy, is likely to be seen soon. We haven't seen it yet. Mr President! True Finns do not require surgical lists. We are calling for a new allocation of appropriations in the budget, in the additional budget and in the budgetary plan so that they strengthen Finnish society in order to overcome this crisis. You are well aware of what we have in mind, where we want to transfer funds for education, research and knowledge, for the benefit of young people, the elderly and the sick, for combating unemployment and for many others, and also for municipalities in particular. The municipal association estimates that local government interest losses, losses, tax losses and cost increases due to the interest rate are nearly two billion. The government promises 1.4 billion, or about half a billion, of local government finances that are already in crisis. This leads to cuts in municipalities on the side of services or tax increases, layoffs and unemployment. Is this what the government wants? Are you responding to the fact that the municipalities receive so much funding as a transfer from these other more pointless destinations, which the government drives, that the municipalities survive and that the decent livelihoods and services of the citizens are maintained? We're rushing into social security and social security. And we would remind you that when the recession was in the '90s, it was only the Lipponen government that was operated on, not the Aho government, and the Lipponen government that made major cuts to the key elements of basic security. This should not be done now, but cuts, when they are made, should be made in another way, that is, mainly to the amounts that go out of the country. Mr President! There is an 18-point programme, a statement that was put to the vote, in the protest of the people of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u65	Mr President! From the outset, I support Mr Heinonen's protest. Mr President! According to the Civilization Dictionary, ‘the plan ‘is’a matter of prior consideration which will be implemented in the future. ’ Therefore, the government's budgetary plan in today's feedback debate should be just such a well-thought-out strategy on how to keep public finances in order. Unfortunately, this cannot be said with regard to the current Rinteen-Marin government. Even before the current interest rate crisis, the government made a huge increase in public spending. Of course, there were also good and well-founded targets. At the same time, the government has stood directly behind the adjustments to the responsible public finances. A more detailed plan, let alone a list of measures to bring Finland's employment rate closer to the other Nordic countries, has not been seen or heard, despite the fact that the government has been assisted by a total of seven tripartite working groups, i.e. seven tripartite working groups. Now, in an exceptionally serious and deep crisis of interest rates, the government has even forgotten its responsibility for the sustainability of public finances. The new objective is merely to stabilise the debt ratio by the end of the decade in relation to GDP. No objective has been set for the level of debt, including the state’s ability to pay. Mr President! The alarm clocks should now be ringing and loud, especially in the center, which has declared itself to be a brake on the reckless stewardship of the green Left. It's time to finally put your foot on the pedal. Action is needed to alleviate the long-term economic challenges facing Finland today, here and now. The most essential thing now is to foster employment and the competitiveness of Finnish companies and work. One effective option, which in Germany and Sweden, among others, has produced more employment than we do, has been a strong increase in local reconciliation. Another concrete issue that, according to economists, would create more jobs would be the abolition of the so-called supplementary days of unemployment security, the so-called pension line. This would particularly improve the employment of people aged over 60. These are some of the things that we have already put forward in the alternative budget for last year. I now appeal, Mr President, to the new Minister for Finance to seize these means. Finland is in a difficult situation and, in addition to the mere distribution of money, the government must take responsibility for the sustainability of public finances. We need all the means at our disposal now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u66	Mr President! One consequence of these exceptional times has been that millions in the economy have become billions. In the world, in Europe and in Finland, rescue packages have been made and are almost astronomical in size. In recent weeks, the Finnish State has also taken a hit on behalf of the rest of society so that unemployment does not explode in the heavens or large-scale companies fall. Society has been mobilised and the economy is being revived. For example, road and other infrastructure projects carried out at a rapid pace across Finland directly employ and revitalize. At the same time, they will improve in the longer term the conditions for business investment and the vitality of the regions. South Ostrobothnia also thanks: the fourth additional budget includes, among other things, a major recovery measure between highway 9 and the Seinäjoki-Laja. And while Minister Andersson is here, I would also like to thank you for the important education and training measures — a very wise, sensible policy. However, President-in-Office, our financial buffers will then be in much worse shape. We cannot solve this type of crisis indefinitely by indebtedness. We must be able to outline how income and expenditure will be brought closer together in the future. We have learned important lessons from what we need to develop in order to be more prepared for unforeseen crises. The best thing to do is to get the economy in order. We need to get people to work, and we need to extend their careers. Too many of us can't make it to retirement age. During the time of the corona, we have managed to reduce sickness absence by as simple a means as good hand hygiene. Working fatigue is a much more complex problem than influenza, for example, but that does not mean that it cannot also be found simple and cheap solutions to tackle. President! I also believe that we will eventually be able to renew ourselves. Structural reforms in Finland have been in a hurry for years. They still have to be done. The aim of the Centre is to avoid tax increases through reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u67	Mr President! When you have listened to this debate, you do not sometimes know who is sitting in this Chamber in the government. The Minister of Finance, Mr Vanhanen, talks about adjustment, but his own party, from the centre, sometimes comes up with speeches that now is not the time to adapt. As we have heard here, Mr Vanhanen, the Minister for Finance, said that we have a EUR 7 billion need for adjustment. It cannot be lumped together by the fact that we are increasing expenditure to the public sector, for example, but that these expenditure increases, which have been presented here too, must now be taken away with courage. As Mr Kankaanniemi cleverly said, we do not want to put on the cut lists either. But it must be possible to deal with these matters in such a way that we put money into basics. The Greens have given the floor not to cut the wings. There's no one here to cut the wings, but you shouldn't do it for them if the wings work. And that means that we cannot afford to continue with such a system, where people can, for example, move to the country and stay here for years without working, even their whole lives. Prioritisation means that we take care of both safety and basic security networks in this country, but in this economic situation we must also be able to look through, in the interests of Finland and Finland, because now, for example, this country is putting EUR 3 million into development aid every day. Can we afford this? It's like the question. Such matters must be able to be prioritised when this country is in trouble. I would now say that, in such a situation, the government parties must be able to abandon all ideological projects. Now we have to look only at the interests of Finland, how to get ahead of this, because this is certainly not a short-term crisis in any way. Similarly, I heard from the Greens that immigration will double by 2040. It is such a costly way of helping that this too can be tackled by politics in such a way that we do not maintain legislation in which this country is so attractive that it can come here and not work and not integrate here. This is not inevitable; it is the result of political decision-making and legislation. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u68	Mr. Speaker! Finland is in an exceptionally serious place. In such a situation, unity is needed. Finland's economic, unemployment and debt problems are very great, but, as the new finance minister has said today, they can be solved when we work together. Finland is now also able to take on debt because the economy has been managed responsibly over the last period. In order to bring Finland back to its feet, we need both growth and employment policies and major reforms in society. The more we succeed in this, the less we will have to make poor tax increases and unequal cuts. Finland now needs to rise, economic growth and employment. It's gonna take all of us good ideas. However, it is equally important to keep all Finns and the whole country involved. The health and economic crisis must not be allowed to expand into a crisis of non-participation. The basic security of people must be taken care of under all circumstances. The fight against poverty in families with children and the marginalisation of young people must be fought. These are the things we talked about before the corona, and these things have never changed. People's services and social security networks must be put in place in a sustainable way, and that is why we also need this long-awaited social reform. The bill for this corona and abnormal conditions for us should be distributed fairly from the perspective of all Finns and the whole country. We will have to live with vigour and responsibility in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u69	Mr President! The government has announced that it will conduct fiscal policies that respond to cyclical developments and that it will commit its expenditure increases to an increase in the employment rate. If the employment rate does not rise sufficiently, expenditure will be cancelled — that is how we have been told this early period before the interest rate. With the serious real economic crisis caused by the epidemic, this principle should be even more topical after clear economic and health remedies and recovery. Unfortunately, there is no sign of any strengthening of such thinking. Unfortunately, it seems likely that cuts in the basic funding of the welfare state will still have to be made during this spending limits period. The definition of adjustment measures and structural reforms aimed at achieving a balance should take place immediately. Employment: It is one thing to increase the employment rate by building sustainable employment that is also beneficial for the balance of public finances. In particular, the assessment must take into account productivity, the development of gross income, who will be employed, what kind of jobs and what kind of public assistance, and whether you will get paid or whether it will require social security or other compensation. The overall picture is very relevant, both in terms of social security incentives and in terms of immigration. Instead of publishing some kind of concrete measures to increase sustainable employment, the government was content to increase its target of job creation. However, raising ambition is not a policy measure. Moreover, the expansion of the public sector alone is not a sustainable measure of employment, even if it leads to an increase in the employment rate. Unprofitable work, especially at lower wage levels, is one of the most important structural problems in our country. This is not just about the incentive problems of social security; it is about the impact of the labour market, the business structure and, for example, immigration. Immigration to Finland is primarily a chronic expenditure item. A labour-related transition to low-wage sectors as well as a humanitarian immigrant with refugee status entails considerable costs. We have very few highly educated experts who come to us in relation to the inconvenient speeches. As long as the Finnish Government refuses to understand and intervene in the total cost of immigration, the problem remains and is getting worse. If it bothers you that we're talking about it, you'll have to react to it. Please acknowledge the costs and act. This is not a button shop and a small matter, a small amount of money, as Mr Rantanen has said before.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u70	Mr President! The budgetary plan will enable a very wide-ranging debate on all important economic issues. My own speech may now sound a little technocratic, but I quote the same point in the proposal for a decision which Mr Sankelo quoted a while ago. This is the case: ‘The Commission requires that the government is engaged in quantitative measures to stabilise public finances at a stage by strengthening the conditions for sustainable Since the speech is brief, for understandable reasons, I shall now focus on this last point, the productivity of public administration. Today, at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, when we were discussing some other issues and holding a meeting in the Finance Committee's room, I raised the current budget and looked at page 211 of the budget, where, for example, police productivity was described by ABCs per person-year, and the result was that in the other year, from 2018, when this activity was described in chapter 859, productivity fell by 2% to this year, which is described by the budget and which is described in chapter 844. This is just one isolated example. I have made a long career in health care, and productivity has been there all along, you can say, as a red thread, as difficult as it is to measure it in health care. But, for example, in special medical care, there are good indicators; we talk about the price of the DRG point, which makes the costs of treating very different diseases combined, and that is how productivity can be assessed. In the 2010s, for example, productivity grew by ten per cent in the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa. I would now like to stress very strongly this issue of productivity. To conclude, I tried to set an example in the current area. We are now living in the midst of this corona virus, and if we get vaccination and then we effectively get that vaccine for the Finns, then if the unit price of the vaccine and the related vaccination work total 100 euros, then the price is 550 million euros. If we increase productivity by 20% by getting a cheaper vaccine or by making vaccination more effective, then we will be able to improve productivity by 100 million, or 20%, but the most important thing is the effectiveness, the fact that we will be able to eliminate 10,000 infections and, in fact, its social impact will be up to 10 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u71	Mr President! Disasters arise when individual events and bad decisions are chained up in risky circumstances. Finland is approaching an economic disaster because the government is not prepared to critically review its programme or decisions taken. We all understand that the corona crisis is historic, but does the government understand that it is preparing the next disaster by stubbornly sticking to the government programme and denying the facts? Europe never solved its debt and euro crisis, but killed it with central bank money. The economic conditions were deteriorating even before the corona crisis, and the ECB has no tools left but to add the same. The EU offers solidarity that is unsustainable for Finns. Finland’s public sector and guarantee liabilities are among the largest in relation to Europe. Circumstances are now particularly risky. Well, now the continuing fatal chain of events started from an unbelievable government base and an unrealistic government program. At first, the interest-rate crisis was managed with a reasonable degree of responsibility, but with the fourth amending budget there was a complete failure of judgement. The budgetary plan includes objectives without means and a social welfare reform for open cheques. These choices and events lead to the stalling and falling of the Finnish machine at the end of its carrying capacity. They will lead to an economic disaster. But what does the center do to avoid an accident? In his first speech, the new Minister for Finance outlined his support for the solidarity promoted by the EU, which raises the risk of Finland to another power. Mr President! The Government will continue to increase expenditure, the public sector and debt and imagine that raising the employment rate target will pay for expenditure from the shoulder. European or Finnish GDP does not generate sufficient growth by any amount of new debt. The sustainability gap will only be addressed by measures that genuinely enhance and reduce public finances, releasing skilled labour to the private sector. Finland will be saved as it permanently reduces its oversized public sector relative to GDP. In addition, we need to ensure cost competitiveness, strengthen domestic purchasing power and favour Finnish people. It is now the last moment for the government to break the chain of events leading to economic destruction. The Government Programme and the budgetary plan must be completely recast.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u72	Mr President! The Ministry of Finance estimates that without measures to improve employment, the employment rate will be below 72 per cent in 2023. The increase in employment cannot be left to future governments; employment must be increased already during this parliamentary term. For longer-term growth, it is necessary to strengthen productivity by increasing education and training. This is why we need to invest in increasing the number of training places, and fortunately the government has responded to this by adding 4,800 new starting places for higher education institutions. In the longer term, such measures will contribute to employment and the adequacy of skilled labour. Similarly, the employment of young people and, in particular, the access of graduates to the labour market should be promoted. In addition to education, productivity must be strengthened by research, development and innovation, which we have committed 4% of GDP to finance. However, it is amazing that, in line with the government's proposal, this objective is not being achieved by these measures. Mr President! In its report, the committee also stresses the particular importance of ensuring adequate resources for child protection in the future. In the future, marginalised children will be adults with a significant burden and expense to society in addition to human suffering. The root causes of child welfare must be addressed now at the latest, as the crisis will increase welfare inequalities. The expansion of child welfare has brought with it so many mild phenomena that it requires further clarification. The legislative drafting of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and various projects have enabled the creation of a billion-dollar business in foster care, which will displace our children, causing untold human suffering. The comprehensive reform of the Child Welfare Act, which entered into force in 2008, was intended to reduce the number of detentions. However, there has been an increase in the number of care visits, which almost doubled from the 1990s to the 2010s. There are no national statistics on the causes of investments. The wishes and needs of the social service user or of the child welfare customer have never been extensively explained and customer satisfaction surveys have never been carried out. Therefore, the measures could not be targeted correctly and cost-effectively either. In the protest of the Finns Party, we expect the government to submit a bill to Parliament to eliminate child protection defects, improve the level of protection and reduce costs. Mr President! All levels of education have financial deficits. All levels of education also have a learning gap. Almost all organisations are in favour, at the very least, of a change in the timetable for extending compulsory education, such as the OAJ today: ‘The finalisation of the legislative process raises the reality that young people who have not yet completed a secondary degree need more support and education, both in basic education and in vocational training. With free travel and materials, they do nothing without education and support. Major changes in principle are still needed in the overall picture before
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u73	Honorable Speaker! First of all, I would like to raise the committee's proposal for a position on this draft report, which was unanimous. In other words, there was such a statement that ‘the government will initiate measures to stabilise public finances in stages by strengthening the conditions for sustainable economic growth, employment,competitiveness, know-how and the productivity of public administration’. And this is one of the key issues, the productivity of public administration should be raised, and why not the other, the overall productivity level of the nation as a whole, because it is not just because we get more jobs in Finland that makes Finland rise. We need to raise productivity, and that is a key issue. In general terms, the budgetary plans are good. They do not include the stability programme in themselves, and the stability programme, as a standard, will only come in the autumn. But this is a big question when we see how we have such poor prospects for economic growth, and when we combine it with the fact that Finland is constantly in debt and the responsibilities for EU support packages are growing, we have an unforeseeable situation in which direction Finland is going in the future. And perhaps we lack such a broad national vision, Finland's vision, of where we should go to take Finland. Ensuring cost-competitiveness and reasonable public expenditure is the main issue to which attention is to be paid. At the same time, domestic consumer demand must be raised and international competitiveness increased. It is the only sustainable way to bring the economy back on its feet. Investment must be mobilised, productivity increased and employment measures taken in small steps forward. Bring us a single measure of employment here to decide, a single one, a small one — I hope it will come quickly. Don't think about making big, big packages, making a big employment program; bring one small one, let's start with it. And then I have to say that at the turn of the year the Finnish economy was quite close to potential, but now that we have this disease situation, we are in a pretty bad situation. Our economic outlook is very weak at the moment. That is why we are calling for those employment measures. Fiscal policy was very loose in the past, now it is really loose. And I realise that all possible additional expenditure was put into the additional budget, because we do not have spending limits rules now, so that the government was in favour of bringing them here. At the end of the day, I would like to say that:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u74	Mr President! I would like to raise a few points about the committee's report: Firstly, the opposition has already been called for more investment in education, especially higher education. Well, now we are also doing so in a rather unprecedented way with regard to starting points. EUR 124 million has been presented directly to new starting points. They should, of course, be directed above all to areas where full employment is already known, so it is quite certain that young people who receive a place of study and a direction for their future will also find a job of interest. Of course, it is not quite so clear which sectors will be employed in the future. We must also be alert to the fact that our industrial and industrial structures are changing all the time, and we do not know all the areas of the future in which young people will be employed in the future or in which they will become entrepreneurs. But there are also quite certain areas, such as the employment of doctors in the health sector has been full employment for a long time, and we know that we have an ageing population that needs more health services. It is also important to support municipalities in a difficult situation. Municipalities not only make an important and large part of the services, municipalities also make investments that have just as much revitalizing effect as government-led investments. It might even be argued that local government investments are so carefully considered that they often go well into need. Now that we are thinking about the future of the economy, the priority is to revive us in such a way that we can also make an ecologically sustainable change for the economy, which combats climate change and improves biodiversity. This requires a reform of our industrial structure, but we have had a long need for it. Finland has too concentrated its industrial structure, and now, especially in the corona crisis, the service industries have also suffered very badly, and employment there is very significant. When we look at where resources will be directed in the future, we have to rely on research knowledge and have genuine arguments that we are on the path of knowledge and that we make such decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u75	Mr President! This spring has demonstrated in concrete terms how uncertain and unpredictable life can be at times. Although we are in this situation together, this crisis also strikes others harder than others. The red thread of economic policy must be how we keep everyone involved, and we must look first and foremost at those who have already fallen or are falling outside all the safety nets of society. Fortunately, the government is now focusing on safeguarding people’s well-being and livelihoods and on economic recovery. People must now be given the message of a better future, where justice is at the heart of politics, not cutting lists for low incomes. Although the government programme has been written before the corona crisis, its far-reaching, ambitious and courageous structural reforms have not become obsolete — on the contrary. For example, the extension of compulsory education and its genuinely free second level is only more topical. In a situation where more and more families with children have a critically tight economy, we need more and more investment in educational equality and the free education that is closely linked to it. Finnish society has been developed to be more equal for decades, even in previous economic downturns, by investing in free-of-charge education, not in need-tested and stigmatising poor wood. Fortunately, the budgetary plan for extending compulsory education has wisely secured funding. Mr President! If we really mean that we are facing this crisis together, then it must be reflected in a great deal of economic policy. For example, we need to hear the message we have just received from the social barometer. The need for food aid has increased and debt problems have increased significantly during the corona crisis. Are we now making economic policy decisions to keep these people involved as well? Did we pay attention to the children who live in these families? Researchers have tackled the phenomena of the current crisis in a commendable way and we already have preliminary results on how the differences in family welfare have increased during the crisis. All of us who grew up in the shadow of the recession of the 1990s can be glad that this government is taking lessons from dealing with the previous economic crises. Now let's save both companies and people. Children and young people are invested in their own well-being package, unemployment benefit days are abolished and municipalities and businesses are supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u76	Mr President! It is clear to everyone that Finland’s public finances are in a bad career. We have the most rigid labour market in the world, the workforce is falling, there is no desire to invest abroad, the economy is wiping out the negative — and this is a situation picture from before the corona crisis. When the effects of a pandemic are brought into this equation, the situation is not only gloomy but almost uncomfortable. Fortunately, until now, we have managed the state finances responsibly, and so our credit rating is at a level that at least we can borrow cheaply. Things have not always been this good about the loan. However, our ratings are on the decline, and we have not been the best group A for a long time now, and we will soon be class B borrowers if expenditure does not change. In this situation, the main measure taken by the government is to steer the development in the other direction, so that Finland will certainly be trusted as a responsible country for economic policy. This is not enough simply to break the debt ratio. Mr President! Even before the corona crisis, our economy was in bad oxygen. I think that the Rinne and then the Marin government understood this too, but what has been seen so far gives the impression that the government’s finger is in its mouth with regard to the ways in which our country’s economy can genuinely be cured and its welfare increased. Money is distributed to the proud for all kinds of good purposes, but it is not intellectually or skilfully demanding. Anyone can share money, even a child. Structural reforms in the field of working life, means of increasing state incomes, increasing employment — these are things on which there has been vague talk, there have been sightings of companies, but no vigorous action at all. The saddest thing is that everyone knows that neither does the government have any genuine solutions for genuine economic growth and economic health. Nothing has been achieved in the seven Employment Task Forces, and this expenditure will not be achieved. Mr President! Debt is never good, and especially in a situation where there is no knowledge or courage to make any reforms in fear of losing support that could reverse the course of the economy. Our public finances are falling into deficit and we are becoming a weak euro country. For eight years, our current account has also been in deficit. Such an approach does not address our challenges, such as competition for young talent and investment and covering the cost of ageing. The labour market needs to be liberalised and the amount of work needs to be increased; instead, the government seems to only promote income transfers, a living society. Mr President! The Finnish economy is not justified by these social democratic doctrines. Originally, the aim was to eliminate the sustainability gap, to achieve an employment rate of 75% and to strike a balance between public finances at the end of the parliamentary term — right, the means have so far been wrong, wrong because,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u77	Mr President! Let us discuss the budgetary plan in a situation where it has, of course, become obsolete. In this kind of recession shock, epidemic shock, it is quite right to use the government deficit as a buffer and allow it to buffer this shock, but, as economists have said many times, this kind of activity must be accompanied by a credible view of how public finances can be rebalanced. Now, although the representatives of the government parties do not like to emphasise this, we were already clearly in an unsustainable career before this epidemic. I have noticed that the epidemic is smiling among the representatives of many governmental parties, because now all these economic difficulties can be put on the line. However, we will have an absolutely terrible adjustment burden in this decade, and the fact that the debt ratio alone will be established is an extremely ambitious objective. I should at least tell you what level it can be adjusted to. And the way in which the government has chosen here, namely that these issues should be outsourced to the working groups of the social partners, will not succeed. I am familiar with the economic history of many countries, and I do not know of any cases where, with the help of the trade union movement, structural reforms in the labour market, which actually increase employment, have been successful. This is a hard fact. I have nothing against the trade union movement, but that is the way it is. Our political system is now being tested in this decade, and so far, Mr Government, the signs are just not looking so good. There have been all kinds of promises, and all the time we are moving on. And just as Mr Kopra has just said, it is clear from Finland that if you look at these trends, you will be coming to Italy in northern Europe. We are slowly sinking into a weak euroland, and this kind of thinking, which goes somewhere behind the back of the ECB, is unfortunately spreading among the left-wing parliamentarians. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was shocked when I wanted to mention in this JTS opinion the need for adaptation measures after this crisis and the fact that the ECB could hardly make a significant contribution in the long term. This was not good enough for the government front, which wanted to dictate such a statement: ‘In particular, attention must be paid to the growing role of the central banks, to the new mechanisms for public debt management and to significant changes in the Stability and Growth Pact. So here, apparently, some of this group believes that the ECB is doing this job. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u78	Mr President! Thanks to the responsible economic and employment policy of Sipilä's reign, our country can now afford to build a bridge over the worst. The government debt-to-GDP ratio was around 60 per cent before the interest rate, even slightly below 60 per cent. The situation is quite different for us than for those countries that are already in debt. Finland can withstand the debt peak, as long as at the same time it outlines how income and expenditure can be consistently approached. Balancing must be timely. Mr President! In order to restore Finland to its feet, we need growth and employment policies and social reform. We need to increase the workload and productivity. The more successful this can be, the less tax increases and unequal spending cuts will have to be made in Finland. The ability to agree, cooperate and reform is needed in Finland's survival. By contrast, Finland will not be brought back on its feet. It is necessary to keep all Finns and the whole country involved. The health and economic crisis must not be allowed to become a crisis of widespread non-participation. The basic security of people must be ensured under all circumstances. The fight against poverty in families with children and the marginalisation of young people must be fought. People's services and social safety nets must be put in place in a sustainable way by completing the necessary reforms starting with the reform of social welfare and health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u79	Mr President! The representative, Mr Kopra, highlighted the weaknesses in Finland's competitiveness. I have this feeling that it's a little too long for the Copra show about it. I myself am from Varkaus, and there is a metal industry and a paper industry, and business is about export profits. We had a situation there that the Japanese company, such as the screenboard factory company AFT, decided to concentrate all its activities on Varkaus, and it was against us to invest in Canada. The Canadian State also financially supported the competitive situation that it was located in Canada, but Canada disappeared, and the underlying reason for this was our level of education and our skills and skills. Similarly, this kind of pulp mills and energy plants build Sumitomo Foster Wheeler to build a new machine shop for theft, and the starting point is the same reason, it's our level of education. Having listened to this debate, I have come to the impression that we have not understood that our best future-oriented recovery measure is to raise our level of education. The obligation of secondary education to be able to carry out a profession without cost is a very important part of our own competitiveness and our ability to cope with this competition with other countries. This was also evident in the report by Vihrälä. It's something you don't want to compromise on at all. When I personally monitor the demographic situation in Finland and the number of retirements, I believe that these are the necessary measures to ensure that every young person receives education and occupation in order to be able to work. In my opinion, we cannot afford to lose any young people outside the labour market. We need them all to work for Finland here, which is why investing in education is a very important part of our recovery policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u80	Mr President! It is good to continue with the previous speech because I too believe that these additional places of education are good, at least when they are targeted at areas where there is probably work to be done after graduation and where there are also enough capable students to avoid compromising the level of education. It makes perfect sense to improve competitiveness in the long term. The bigger picture, as Mr Vartiainen has said here, is of course also that in this situation it is time for a revitalising policy. However, it is worrying that, at the same time, these structural reforms, above all in the labour market, have not been able to take place — there is no indication that they are even ready to do so. Last August, the Coalition Party presented a programme that would have provided 60,000 jobs in Finland according to the calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service. Well, I understand that the government does not have to take the opposition's programme, but it is in fact the case that our main proposals are also included in the Vipriälä report. I wish it would gradually get there. When there is no astronomy in which these are invented, I find it wonderful that these seven employment groups of the government are sitting and sitting, even though everyone has many times the means to do it. Today, Olli Rehn, President of the Bank of Finland, said very well that, in the midst of this crisis, our labour market system has been working just fine. We have been able to make the decisions from there that you can lay off more quickly and that anyone who gets laid off will receive its compensation without any liability — this is quite right, and the unemployment security of the entrepreneur and many other things. This has been the right way to act in this situation, and this is how it plays. But, as Olli Rehn says, now comes the second round. We must now be able to make the reforms that will permanently improve our competitiveness and maintain Finland's international reputation, as the representative of Eestilä here in the group speech of the Assembly said very well: Finland is the country that manages its economy responsibly and is also able to pay its debts, as we have done in the past, and that is what we are known about around the world. Well, here's the real point of evidence. Even in the government's own budgetary plan, I think there was a record that structural reforms need to be carried out along with recovery. In the Greens report, it is very clearly stated. I understand that the new Minister for Finance has also drawn attention to this. But now it is just beginning to be the time for those proposals to come so that we can put this economy on a credible footing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u81	Mr President! I have not finished my previous speech. It would have been just that I wanted to ask: what is the situation with regard to the taxation of the Ay movement? In his reply to my written question, Mr Kulmuni, the former Minister of Finance said that the government would examine whether, in order to strengthen the tax base, it would be possible to introduce a 5% withholding tax on dividends received by the Ay movement by 2022. At least a working group was to be set up for the above-mentioned report, whose work had to start this summer. There is no mention of this taxation of the Ay movement in the tax base changes in the fiscal plan. What is the state of the investigation and possible tax change?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u82	Mr President! The debate has gone far enough, and it has been well remembered that companies have now been supported and in that way the effort has been made to preserve jobs, and this is truly unique with such significant contributions. Then an evaluation has been made of what the government is doing or what it has failed to do. However, the government has removed restrictions and is constantly monitoring the progress or decline of the interest rate and, as a result, whether or not it still needs to react to the coronavirus in the autumn. If it now appears that it is going to come to a recession, then that is probably the case, then it is time for these measures in the debate in August, which the opposition has now put forward very well here. As has been pointed out in many of our speeches, the government is prepared to do so, and I defend the views of the government in that respect. I'm sure the representatives will know that the government alone can't make all the performances. The social partners are one important factor, and when it comes to ensuring that social peace is maintained, these measures will be taken together and then taken forward. In this situation, it has been very good to invest in transport projects, to support the activities of municipalities, and specifically in health and medical care, also because there have been significant costs. And one of the important things is education, as has been said here. Training, starting places for higher education and extending the compulsory education age. At this stage of distance education, which has now been experienced by, for example, secondary school students, it makes sense to continue with the compulsory education age and in that way to try to move everything now into the service of society and to make its own good contribution to this society. Employment is considerably better when there is no such break from the training chain. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u83	Mr President! In Finland, interest rate measures have been bit quite well. Finns have been fine in complying with restrictions, and the number of infections continues to fall in practice on a daily basis. For this, a big thank you belong to every Finn. We need to get out of the interest-rate crisis as soon as possible, because the social blockade has cost Finland about EUR 1 billion every week, and the pace has accelerated. In fact, these restrictive measures are still being maintained by the Marin government, even until next October, which means that there will be more of this fall. Because of the actions of the Marin government, our country’s public finances were in an unsustainable career even before the corona crisis, but now they are in an increasingly difficult situation. Even in times of crisis, significant additional expenditure is justified if it is targeted and timely and also on a fixed-term basis. A recovery policy must aim only at covering the necessary costs of the corona crisis, at carrying companies over the crisis and at a well thought-out recovery effort. The Marin government has shown recklessness in the distribution of funds and indifference in the sustainable financing of important services in the welfare society. If you are in debt, Mr President, you cannot go on forever. As a result of rising expenditure and falling tax revenues, weak budgetary developments are threatening to turn catastrophic. Unlike in our control countries, we will not see a slowdown in our deficit trends in the next few years. We'll be taking 10 billion more debts every year from next year. Such a development is completely intolerable in the context of a worsening sustainability gap. We cannot accept in the assembly that the economy should be allowed to move ahead with a disastrous career in these planning years. The Coalition Party felt that it was irresponsible to promise permanent spending in the Government Programme of EUR 1.4 billion, because it was not even possible to deliver on these promises before the crisis. It is even more irresponsible to insist on increasing public finances during the crisis. The government is holding on to the financing of expenditure through the sale of assets, while the value of the assets has fallen dramatically. So national property is being sold at a defamation price. The greatest economic crisis in world history is certainly a sufficient reason for changing the picture of the situation. The increasing tasks of municipalities and consumption expenditure called investments weaken both the finances of municipalities, funds and central government. It is clear that the government programme must be rebuilt, and we are pleased that the centre's ranks have raised this issue. There would be a lot to discuss here, and it would certainly have been desirable for Prime Minister Marin also to have participated in this important economic debate, but tomorrow we will continue this debate. Mr President, I should like to add that I warmly congratulate you on your valuable role as President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u84	Madam President! I took the floor to make a few comments. There was talk in this Chamber of improving labour productivity, and it is true that labour productivity should be improved. For example, the Left Alliance has long argued that labour productivity could be improved by, for example, dividing work into more jobs. It has also been tried in a neighbouring country and there are encouraging results. So if we are talking about the productivity of work, then it is worth considering these means and also bringing to this debate what the opposition wants to suggest to us that the productivity of work can be improved. As far as jobs and the management of employment are concerned, this government, in this very challenging, difficult situation, has done everything in its power to save jobs and make a living, and here comes the importance and importance of these reforms. We cannot leave families with children alone without support, and now there is support for it. We cannot leave young people without support. We need support for learning paths, from early childhood education to higher education, and this extension of compulsory education is one of the cures in the range of means by which we keep all our young and children involved. We cannot afford to lose any of them, and I am very pleased that this has been included in the government programme and that this is also being taken forward and that this budgetary plan also has the money earmarked for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u87	Madam President! Welcome to the chair. We here in the last few metres are talking about this budgetary plan, and I would like to remind you of what we said in that Committee on Education. We are now paying particular attention to these effects of the interest rate. When the local government finances have been in trouble for a long time, of course this situation of interest rates makes it more difficult. And, in fact, the poor finances of the municipalities and then the services of children and young people correlate very much, they have a lot of connection. That is why we drew attention to the fact that, for example, living conditions, family relationships and coping with everyday life are really being tested in a situation like this when we have a lot of vulnerable families with mental health problems, substance abuse, violence and so on. Holidays, the threat of unemployment and all of these have often also affected families’ livelihoods. In other words, this corona situation has made the serious situation of municipalities even worse. We also drew attention to the fact that children, young people and families need support after this interest rate, and I am very pleased that there will be more money for it in supplementary budget 4. We must remember, however, that this corona is not over yet, but it may be that another wave is coming out of it, and that is why we should now think about what the most urgent things are and what is being invested in, because money still needs to be left on the bottom of the bag, because we are going to have the difficult situations that we have had, which are only going to get worse in this situation. Sometimes money does not help, but it does make things easier many times when support services can be provided. For example, tackling the learning gap and student care issues will be particularly prominent in the autumn. We need to bridge the learning gap that has come to many people this spring. We also need special education, we need schooling. We also need to take account of the teachers and staff who have become rather strict this spring. But then, at the end of the day, I would like to say what we in the Committee on Culture also took a stand on. For many today, this corona has caused negative economic effects, and I mention art and culture, including people in the music industry, and also athletes. So there is a lot of this kind of problem which now needs to be dealt with after the interest rate, especially since there was a so-called debt left at the bottom. I hope that we will be able to respond to these in a long run. It won't be easy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u88	Madam President! Mr Hänninen spoke of this secondary school requirement, a compulsory education which is now being pushed forward by the left-wing government. We are not in favour of compulsory school or compulsory school education at second level, but we see that it would be more effective to allocate that appropriation if such money were actually to be allocated — that is, debt money, too — that it would be preferable to focus on, for example, primary school, early intervention and the strengthening of basic skills, and then, for example, to improve quality in vocational education and in upper secondary school education. After all, today there has been quite a strong statement from the Education Employers, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities and the Teachers' Trade Union, all of which clearly state that these appropriations, which the left-wing government has set aside for extending compulsory education, are well below the threshold. They are 129 million in this framework and we are talking about considerably higher costs. One of the fundamental problems here is that Mr Hänninen and also Mr Andersson, Mr Andersson, that you would end this compulsory education before a young person becomes a matriculation student, before he was able to leave high school and also before he graduated into the profession. So this would not be a guarantee of second-degree completion or going through. I would like to ask the Minister for Education, Mr Andersson, when he here has been busy listening to this debate and by investing in education and training, this country will continue to succeed in the future. When, as a large part of this, this second-degree freedom is included, it is a broad consensus that it is important that no one's studies should be caught up in the fact that they cannot afford learning materials or other studies, then I would ask the Minister for Education, Mr Andersson: Is this freeness, however, intended to extend to the entire upper secondary school, i.e. also to the year when we are 19 years of age, i.e. in the third upper secondary school year, and also to vocational education after the age of 18? What's the end of this college obligation you've been planning? The big problem here is whether you can find those places in the fields where the young people want to go, or whether you have to show them that if you don't get to be an electrician or a plumber, then it is shown that you go as a nearby nurse, or if you don't get to be a barber-dresser, then the man is told to go as a plumber. That is not the way it will work, Mr Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u89	Madam President! First of all, congratulations on your choice. I am going to have to deviate a little from the debate on employment policy and business subsidies, but this will allow me to do so. By the beginning of June, a total of 540000 employees had received notifications of layoffs from the Employment and Economic Development Offices. According to recent data from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, there are 125,000 more full-time lay-offs and 62,000 more unemployed than at the end of February. In March, support was opened to companies in an unprecedented manner as soon as exceptional circumstances began. It is important to combat unemployment through state intervention and to try to ensure that workers who have been laid off or made redundant can return to work as soon as possible, and company aid could contribute to this if employment were to be made conditional. This has not been done now, apart from a very small part, i.e. half of the support package for restaurants. To date, between EUR 15 billion and EUR 20 billion have been available to businesses and employers in different forms. Of this, about 2 billion are direct grants. In particular, the consideration, incentive or steering effect of these direct grants has been non-existent, mainly theoretical at best. It is therefore legitimate to ask whether these billions have supported employment or, to what extent, have they more been transfers to the owners of companies. The preparation of the aid has been urgent and inadequate and, on the other hand, the distribution of aid has been quite lax. In addition to direct grants, companies have been allocated a number of billions of euros of tax and payment deferrals, as well as a reduction in labour law, such as speeding up lay-offs, resulting in economic benefits and benefits. By the end of June, the Ministry of Finance estimated that speeding up the lay-offs would generate a profit of as much as EUR 1.2 billion for companies. Accelerated lay-off has also been misused. According to the SAK, 15% of their shop stewards reported such layoffs. This accelerated lay-off procedure is now being extended from the end of June to the end of the year. Obviously, we are preparing for cuts in labour costs, especially in the export industry – this is what Antti Herlin warned us about during the weekend in Helsingin Sanomat, among other things. For example, I am concerned about the future of the maritime industry in Southwest Finland when cruise ships transfer their orders. The Turku Shipyard, which has so far recruited and invested in production, now threatens to lay off 450 people and lay off as many as 900. The majority of all personnel are covered by the measures. In the sub-contracting network, this impact is multiplied by several thousand. These redundancies should also be avoided by all means in order to preserve the outlook for the future of this sector and not to lose the high level of knowledge and investment made. Overall, instead of direct business subsidies, equity investments would better secure taxpayers' money. Aid for financial criminals or tax havens should also be prevented. Instead of a lighter lay-off procedure...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u90	We have a three-minute speech limitation recommendation here. Thank you, Mr Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u91	Madam President! I will say a few words about this JTS, that is, the budgetary plan. It is very good that these training efforts are being made. My only concern, of course, as a teacher, is that — when education is not so much as a single effort — how much of this funding can be maintained, since it now seems that there are quite a lot of these one-off contributions. I have given some thought to them, as well as to the funding of upper secondary school education, which I myself have wondered how we would get it, because the municipalities are currently financing a great deal of it. That amending budget has now entered the starting points for higher education, which has also been given attention. Now that we have such a situation that we need people in the field of social services, for example, it is important that we have these places of origin. But, of course, it is now interesting to see what the unit price is, with which it is calculated, because we have very different training places at different unit prices, and that is why I think it is important that this funding is then sufficient, because it unfortunately only reduces the quality of education if it is very low. Then there is funding for research, development and innovation. Of course, Finland is going to rise on the ground, and that is why I hope that it will be possible to do so. When the target is that we spend 4% of our GDP, it should be kept, and that road map already exists, but this has a lot of repair debt in the way it has been mentioned. Then we talked about this extension of compulsory education, and everyone in this Chamber knows my position on it. I am speaking now as a teacher, when I personally believe that we should first invest in the basic skills there. We have a lot of students with learning difficulties, mental health problems, neuropsychological difficulties, and we should get that investment, we should get special education, we should get a lot of support. The very ones who have learning difficulties then pack up from there, but it does not help that the other end is extended. I myself have been a teacher in secondary education and I know what that means when a student gets there and can't do it there. He's going away so easily. I claim that this drop-out could be eliminated by investing both in the support and in the versatile tailor-made support, and in student guidance. It would then be good to point out that economists have been on this side, but I am waiting because educational researchers and educational scientists come forward and also tell their views. There's a lot of information that's been studied. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u92	Mr President! Just a brief summary of what has just been said. Although these business subsidies have been justified precisely by safeguarding employment, in fact they do not contain much of such an incentive element for employment, not to mention the fact that they would be required as a condition for employment — in a very small way, for just a few ten million, there is one in this restaurant subsidy, but otherwise very little. The value of these subsidies has been non-existent and the steering effect and the accuracy of the hit in the national economy has been weak, if not non-existent. These have not provided sufficient incentives to maintain economic activity and employment. In fact, many aids have also clearly prevented them from flowing directly to financial criminals or tax havens. We do not yet know the final balance in this respect, but the signs seem a little bad and I fear that all of this will be very costly for workers, taxpayers and the entire national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u93	Then Secretary Andersson, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u94	Mr President! Thank you for a long debate. I thought I would answer a few questions that were put directly to me in connection with the appropriations for education and education and, in particular, with the extension of compulsory education. There may have been a slight impression that some of the porridges and vellets have been mixed up here, perhaps because this is now about the budgetary plan and later this week also about this draft amending budget. Of course, the draft amending budget includes fixed-term, i.e. one-off, investments financed by debt, but if you look at the budgetary plan and the permanent expenditure increases that the government is making, it is worth noting that, in the course of the government negotiations, the government has also agreed on the revenue burden, i.e. permanent revenue increases, to cover these permanent expenditure increases, which are made for the various administrative sectors. Questions were raised in connection with raising compulsory education. Indeed, compulsory education ends on the day that a person turns 18, because we do not have much of this kind of obligations for adults. It might also have created constitutional problems if compulsory education had been extended to more than 18 years. But this freeness of charge for secondary education will continue until the end of the year when the youth turns 20. This is also a way of ensuring that everyone has a real chance to complete the secondary degree.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u97	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u98	Mr President, congratulations on my part too. As all the representatives in this Chamber well know, this past spring has been a very exceptional spring in Finnish primary schools. On 17 March 2020 the Government adopted implementing regulations on temporary restrictions on the obligation to organise early childhood education and education. In practice, because of the corona epidemic, Finnish comprehensive schools moved to distance education mainly in order to safeguard the health of pupils and teaching staff and the general population. From mid-May onwards, however, on the basis of the recommendations of the health authorities, we moved back to contact teaching in accordance with the separate hygiene and lightness guidelines issued by the National Institute for Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Education and Culture. With this bill now under discussion, preparations will be made for autumn. Since the objective is that the Emergency Act no longer needs to be used to manage the epidemic, at least in the education sector, the Ministry of Education and Culture has also prepared for the autumn semester with these amendments. The challenge is, of course, that we do not yet know what the epidemic will be like in the autumn. No world expert can yet say whether there will be another wave or not, but it is wise, in this situation, to prepare for all possible scenarios and to ensure that we have, on the side of normal legislation, the tools that can then be used. The Government is therefore preparing for the autumn semester of basic education in 2020 by submitting a Government proposal that would allow the organisers of education to move to extraordinary teaching arrangements if the infectious disease situation in the autumn term so requires. The aim is to provide a flexible response to the communicable disease situation from local sources. This is why the government is proposing a temporary provision for the Basic Education Act and the Helsinki European School Act. Our current Basic Education Act does not know distance education, which is why the student’s right to receive basic education can be prevented in practice in the event of a serious infectious disease. The laws currently under discussion would provide for exceptional teaching arrangements, such as rotation between local and distance education, provided that certain conditions of the Act on communicable diseases are met. These legal changes are intended to be temporary. Distance learning is not intended to be used more than it is necessary to secure learning, and of course everyone's wish and the assumption at the moment is that, during the autumn term of 2020, basic education can be arranged mainly as local education. When, then, can exceptional educational arrangements be resorted to? On the basis of this amendment, they can be relied on if education could not be provided safely as a local education at school or at another place of education, i.e. teaching, could not be carried out in accordance with the guidance on the safe use of educational facilities contained in the decision of the infectious disease authority. Exceptional arrangements may also be introduced if the space used to organise education is partially or completely closed under the Act on communicable diseases. The education organiser must cooperate with the local or regional infectious disease authority in assessing the safety of local education and the need for exceptional teaching arrangements. Vulnerable pupils would continue in close-up education also in the autumn. These opportunities for extraordinary teaching arrangements do not apply to pre-school pupils, pupils in the first- and third-year classes of basic education, pupils who have received special support, students in extended compulsory education or students in preparatory education. The purpose of this Government proposal is to prevent the spread of the corona virus, mitigate its disadvantages and ensure the safe provision of education under the Basic Education Act during the autumn semester 2020. The Government wants to ensure that every person who starts his school work in the autumn has the right to free basic education also in the current case of infectious disease. The proposal also aims to safeguard the right of the most vulnerable pupils to receive basic education even in exceptional teaching situations. Finally, I would like to thank Parliament and the representatives for their flexibility in bringing forward this government proposal, because the objective is indeed that this law should be in force as early as 1 August of this year so that it can arrive in time before the autumn semester of basic education begins. It is therefore essential for the planning and organisation of school activities that this proposed legislation be brought into force before the start of the autumn semester.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u99	Mr President! Congratulations, too, on my own behalf. This government proposal is very welcome, but I hope that we in the Committee on Culture will continue to pay careful attention to a number of points. On top of that, it may occur to me that it is important for this proposal to state that local education is the primary form of teaching and that this will continue to be maintained. It is also important that we monitor the effects of this spring's distance learning period, the impact assessments of children, very carefully. We already know that there have been big differences in the quality of distance education both within schools and between regions, and we also know that for many children, distance learning would not have been possible without parental commitment and support, and not all of them have the resources at home. So, of course, this raises concerns, for example, as to how this group of vulnerable children will then be defined. It may be that many children may easily be excluded from it if they remain, as it were, the responsibility of the organiser of education to define how this distance education will then be implemented in practice. What is also important is that we do not bring teachers into a situation where, in practice, they have to take care of both distance education and local education at the same time, or where there is no means to carry out this distance education at home. So it is important that the contact with that student really remains all the time and that it is not an independent study under any circumstances. In the spring, there was a lot of debate about the school meal, and perhaps we should also consider in committee how the school meal will then be guaranteed in the autumn if there is a situation where schools will have to move to remote educational situations as a result of the epidemic. Then again, I would like to draw attention to this age limit. This age of 10 is interesting. It is based on this employment contract legislation, but it does not, in itself, have any research basis as to why it is exactly the same 10 years. Of course, children are very different and need different support, and perhaps this age limit should still be considered whether it is this 10, and what responsibility it gives to the providers of education. But I hope that a very fruitful and fruitful debate will take place in committee when this bill is being discussed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u100	Madam Speaker! Thank you very much for your choice. This presentation shows an excellent sense of the situation and a proactive eye for the game from the government. The proposal is prepared for the fact that, in August, we are still living in uncertainty about what is happening with regard to the interest rate. The proposal will enable regional and local flexibility, situation response and sensitivity to read school-specific situations. The legislation would therefore allow for a more orderly transition to exceptional teaching arrangements where appropriate and for a decision to be taken on specific arrangements at local level. We have a lot of lessons and experience from spring, and I think it is very sensible for you to have the spirit of your presentation that we do not drive the same mold at national level, but that we react where we may have to react. This is a much more agile and lighter way than these robust but, in some respects, rigid practices. At local level, there is always the best knowledge of the current situation. It is also important that decisions are not only taken by the education authorities, of course, but by the organiser of the education in cooperation with the infectious diseases authorities. This is an important issue in general for assessing situations with those authorities whose expertise and mandate are sufficient. In this case, the teacher also gets a backrest of his/her activities and is able to take into account local conditions, the situation of infection and safety and also cooperate with the homes in the decision. President! It is precisely the fact that, unlike the spring solution, the obligation to organise local education must not be limited in municipalities or schools where coronavirus infections have not been detected. It is also clear that the transition to distance education cannot be made on the basis of ‘blackened’ or ‘overtaken’ criteria. The proposal therefore proposes to include in the Basic Education Act the criteria — which the Minister was excellent and precise about — which would make it possible to move to extraordinary teaching arrangements at all. This surprising interest rate has also taught us that schools and education providers need guidance and clarity on what education and education support providers are obliged to organise when this situation is in place. The proposal also takes note of this, i.e. developments in this respect will develop. President! Mr Honkasalo gave a good presentation of the detailed, probably clarifications that need to be done and considered in committee. Fortunately, we have an excellent committee which will certainly be able to assess this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u101	Madam President! Good luck and success in a new job where your strengths are in good use! And warm thanks to Minister Andersson for a clear introduction. This spring preparedness law will be in force as long as the regulations derived from it are in force and as long as these restrictions are necessary, and it makes real sense to act as far as possible within the framework of the normal laws and to make changes to them. In this proposal, the Government wishes to temporarily amend the Basic Education Act and the Helsinki European School Act. The purpose of the proposal is to prevent the spread of this virus, to mitigate its disadvantages and to ensure the safe provision of education in accordance with the Basic Education Act. We live in a great country where everyone can go on the school path as far as they can and every student has the right to receive basic education in all kinds of times, even in abnormal circumstances. The disease situation is very different across Finland, which is why regional and local solutions are needed. If it is not safe to organise local education, the organiser of the education can switch locally to exceptional teaching arrangements. Decisions can be made one month at a time, they can be alternated between close-up education and distance education, and one good idea is that no child’s distance learning time should be too long. It is good that the same groups will remain in contact education as they are now in spring, and these were, among other things, promoted in the light of the Constitution. Small children, pupils who have received special support, students in extended education and preparatory education are excluded from this. Students are entitled to continue to receive support, student care, special education in the autumn, and there is no derogation from the scope of this support. And the right to school food will also come true. I would therefore like to thank you at this stage for this speedy preparation of the law. It wants to take the best interests of the child into account; it is the starting point of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u102	Madam President! Indeed, the government proposal before us relates to the preparation of schools for education during the autumn in the event of a possible continuation of the corona situation. In certain circumstances, the government's proposal would now make it possible to organise education as both local and distance education, even alternately. This proposed amendment would be temporary. Laws are proposed for entry into force from the beginning of August and would remain in force until the end of December. It is very good that such a proposal has now been received, and thank you for the prompt preparation. I understand that now we really need to prepare for the future. The Act of Preparedness is too heavy for these situations, which is what is needed here. The Act on Diseases helps — it can shut down schools — but we really need these changes to the Basic Education Act and to these other laws, because it is easier to operate when they are there, so to speak, in our own laws. So, in that sense, it's very good. I believe that this is also very important in the sense that this will enable this regional customisation. As Mr Honkasalo has pointed out here, it is quite true that we must, of course, look at this from a child's point of view in the committee, and certainly these child impact assessments by the Commissioner for Children must also be carried out. We must invest all our efforts precisely from the point of view of the child and the young person. In addition, I would also pay attention to the activities and skills of teachers and other staff. It is good to have an account of the experiences of this spring, and fortunately both the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Finnish National Board of Education have collected it. In particular, the National Board of Education has come to us with good data and information on what kind of experience this is now, and it is worth taking advantage of. It just occurred to me here that I am sure teachers and other staff will need further training to do this. It was kind of like being thrown into cold water, or even though it had been so-called dry practice over the years, now it really had to be carried out. I believe that this provision should also be made from the point of view of continuing training. Well, then I was just wondering out loud if it would have been a good idea to take this whole semester, so that it would have given some flexibility, and it wouldn't have been the end of the year. For I predict that we will be there in the second wave, it may even go to spring, in that sense. Well, soon, I won't say it, but I'd say it might have made sense. Then, did I understand correctly that the commentary has not really been drawn up and asked people? I am sure the Minister will answer that, although there are still many other questions to be answered, but what kind of feedback was this? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u103	Ärade fru talman, Madam President, I too would like to congratulate you warmly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u104	Mr President! Exceptional circumstances require exceptional measures. The Corona epidemic forces us to rethink the teaching arrangements, and that is why innovation has also been successfully created. It is important to learn from this crisis. I have spoken in favour of enabling distance education throughout the spring. The extensive study by the University of Turku shows excellent results. Children feel that there is a better working environment at home, and it was felt that studying using online connections was going well. The majority felt that relations with teachers remained good, and one sixth felt that the teacher had more help than usual. These answers will continue to encourage the continuation of distance learning if the situation so requires. However, sufficient resources must be provided for the organisation of student care in order to ensure that the support for learning, schooling and statutory services are organised in the manner required by the situation and at an absolutely low threshold. According to the proposal, the organiser of distance education could, by decision, switch to these teaching arrangements if certain criteria were met. Although the introduction of exceptional arrangements requires several decisions from municipalities at different levels of administration, the proposal does not assess the decision-making obligation of the municipality in the light of Article 21 of the Constitution. However, the government considers it desirable for the Constitutional Committee to give an opinion on this matter, so this should be considered. The bill of amendment states that in the event of distance learning, the pupil's guardian and the provider of distance education can be seen to have a shared responsibility for the supervision of compulsory education. What does shared responsibility mean in practice?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u105	Madam President! It is good that spring experiences are gathered and evaluated. One youth writes: “The whole story changed one by one. Everything that was important to you and long-awaited was canceled, and there was nothing left. I feel like I fell off the top of a high building and my life was taken from the bottom. My daily life is very monotonous. Every day is survival and struggle.” Of course, there is little to learn about putting up with boredom, because it is part of life, but the experiences of young people should be taken seriously. Young people suffer especially during the spring because they did not see friends. Distance learning caused some stress, and a break in hobbies had a negative impact on life. Save Children ry asked 3,000 young people about their experiences, and more than one in four of the 13 to 17-year-olds who responded to the questionnaire experienced poor or rather poor mental well-being due to the exceptional situation. In the second survey, the experience of inclusion and the feeling of being an important part of the class community fell down. More children and adolescents have experienced mood-related mood swings and anxiety. These should be taken into account, although we can really be satisfied with the whole and the fact that the school moved so quickly to remote education and briskly back to practice for the autumn. It is important that we assess and study the effects of exceptional circumstances in order to learn for future crises. And we have learned a lot so far. This temporary law is in force from the beginning of August to the end of the year. In the autumn, the need for it to continue should be assessed. Hopes have also been expressed for permanent changes to the law. As a basis for its decision-making, we need adequate evaluation and studies and their results. That is a matter for later decision-making. It is important that the school’s people and parents receive clear - language instructions on autumn schoolwork in good time, and therefore this bill should be taken forward quickly and alongside the drafting of clear guidelines.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u106	Mr President! This government proposal, which is now being discussed here, was definitely needed for this, for this stage, yes. However, I myself believe that this should now be clarified a little further if it were to be a little longer-term rather than just temporary, and the arguments are here: This spring, the entire Finnish education system successfully moved from local education to remote education. This has taken effort on everyone's part because the legislation does not know distance learning in basic education. The experience has been generally positive, and thanks to all the iron-clad professionals and also to families and the children and young people themselves. During the spring it has been observed that the provision of distance education is also possible in basic education. When drafting legislation to allow distance learning, it is important that the law is not only tied to the corona virus situation but also allowed to be used in other appropriately defined situations. It is essential that legislation is up-to-date for possible future exceptional situations. For example, there could be a fire or something like that. It is important that this is not just a temporary change in relation to the corona epidemic. Distance learning is also needed under other possible exceptional circumstances, such as the encounter of another epidemic or the fire or water damage that I have just mentioned. The law must be quickly introduced by the decision of the organiser of the training. That's why this should be right there in the Basic Education Act. Distance learning can also be used in situations other than exceptional circumstances. The possibility of distance learning in situations with appropriate limits in basic education would increase the flexibility of the providers of education. A permanent opportunity to organise distance learning would allow, for example, the organisation of rarer courses, and distance learning can also be used to support the learning of pupils with special support. Examples have also been given that if, for example, there is a very difficult school bullying situation, this could make it easier. I would stress that my position is absolutely that distance learning must not be a saving measure and local education must always be the main rule. But in such rare situations, which may happen, we should have the opportunity to make decisions by teachers and especially by the providers of education — so that none of the channels are required to do so or merely in accordance with any Act on communicable diseases. I put a written question on this, and I thank the Minister for replying that this will be evaluated and examined and the results of the studies will be examined. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u107	And our time is running towards the end, but I will give Mr Andersson the floor, Mr Andersson, at the end of the day, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u108	Mr President! Briefly, answers to a few of the questions that have been raised. Although there was no time for such an ordinary consultation due to the fact that this drafting of the law was carried out so quickly, both negotiations and consultations have been held with, among other things, the OAJ, the National Board of Education, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, Sivista, municipal employers and also the civil society leaders of large cities, but this also underscores the importance of this parliamentary procedure in relation to these legislative changes. With regard to the timetable, a solution was reached in which this temporary change would now have been thought to be valid only until the end of December because the Constitutional Committee has been rather careful not to make too long changes due to the situation of interest rates, if it is a matter of legislation that affects the fundamental rights of Finns of different ages, and perhaps this is, in particular, a fundamental right-sensitive change. That's why we ended up with this kind of shorter validity in this respect. Very important speeches have also been made on student and student care and school meals, and I would also draw the attention of the representatives to the fact that this proposal does not contain any restrictions on organisation obligations similar to those contained in the regulations adopted under this Emergency Act, i.e. that student and student care, for example, would normally operate in the autumn. Perhaps there may also be a need to make use of this remote support or other, but certainly not that the providers of education, for example, would go down these services in the autumn, because I agree with the opinion of the chairman of the Committee on Education that the need for these services is certainly even greater now during the autumn term than usual.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u109	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. It is really important to pay attention to that student care. Now that you're here, I'm telling you about this, we had a lot of care students. In our region, for example, we wonder how we can get in touch with everyone. Not all were contacted at times, some teachers even went home to see what was going on there. Well, when we got to the school, we may not have got that student service started right away, so I would like to see the Ministry of Education and Culture go all the way to the municipal student service, that in the summer we have to provide intensified service, although usually we always drive a little down all the services for the summer. I know that when I'm the head of the hospital district council, there's those summer services. This should not be the so-called summer service, but it should be the case that these services should be provided, especially to those care students. The students were able to be seen at the school, but it was two weeks and it was such a fuss when the groups went to dinner to see if everyone was there. That's why I'd like the Ministry of Education and Culture to really be patied. And the Minister's phrases are always of enormous importance, it is worth using this in the speeches as well. But then I'd just like to say about that schedule. You mentioned that a little has also been said by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that we must not make too long laws, that these fundamental rights... It is true that fundamental rights are at stake here, but if you look at the next law that we are dealing with, vocational education and training, it is not so intensely related to fundamental rights, but there too this law comes. It's a longer-term law, but its power will cease immediately if the corona runs out. The same logic could have been used here, and it is of course interesting why the logic of that law is different when it could have been used here too, i.e. that it is longer-term, but its power will cease as soon as the corona runs out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u110	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u111	Mr President! There is now a second legislative amendment to prepare the government for the autumn situation and the fact that we do not yet know how the corona epidemic will develop during the autumn. During an epidemic of interest rates, i.e. this spring, the implementation of evidence of vocational training has become more difficult because of the natural fact that many jobs have been closed or have been restricted, for example, if the risk of infection means that there has been no external access to the workplace, or if a significant proportion of workers have been working at a distance and not working at the workplace. The decisions of the Regional State Administrative Agencies on the closure of educational establishments, which have been in force until 13 May 2020, have also made it difficult to carry out screens in educational environments, as the use of the premises of educational institutions has been limited. There is a clear variation in the impact in the fields of education and training. There have been difficulties in the implementation of evidence, particularly in the services sector and in the social and health sector, which I think is also very understandable given the nature of this corona epidemic. Under existing legislation, evidence of vocational education and training must be carried out in genuine work situations and work processes. Displays must be carried out primarily at the workplace, but under the legislation already in force they can be arranged elsewhere for a legitimate reason, such as on educational sites, on teaching forests, on educational farms or in work halls. During the period of validity of the implementing regulations, the obligation for educational institutions to provide evidence was limited and the evidence was required only to the extent that it was possible to carry it out. In this context, it was recommended to give priority to the screens of students applying for further studies and otherwise in the graduation phase, but in other respects the screens planned for spring had to be postponed until autumn. This may delay the progress of studies and, on the other hand, for the coming autumn, there is uncertainty about the possibilities for delivering evidence in the workplace due to the epidemic situation. After the expiry of the implementing regulations, i.e. from 14 May 2020, the normal legislation on the organisation of vocational training shall apply. According to the law, the organiser of the education must provide the student with the opportunity to demonstrate his/her skills as soon as possible after the student is considered to have achieved the skills requirements or the competence objectives in accordance with the criteria of the degree or training. There is no precise time limit for the execution of the displays. It is clear, however, that the delay in evidence over several months no longer meets the legal requirement to organise evidence as soon as possible. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that vocational studies are progressed and carried out even in exceptional circumstances caused by the corona virus epidemic. The proposal provides for greater flexibility in the implementation of the evidence so that it can be carried out, rather than genuine work situations, by performing other practical tasks which are as close as possible to genuine work situations and work processes. Indeed, the legislation already in force makes it possible to carry out the evidence in the educational environment, so there is no need to amend the legislation in this respect. It is also proposed that the evaluation of practical tasks could be complemented by a more extensive written or oral evaluation. However, a part of a vocational qualification could not be completed by written evaluation alone, but should at least partially demonstrate its competence by carrying out practical tasks. It is important that working life can be confident that studies and assessments carried out during the corona virus epidemic have also been properly verified by the practical skills of the examiner. The proposed flexibility is proposed for entry into force as soon as possible and until 31.7.2021. It is difficult to predict the evolution of the interest rate epidemic, but the application of flexibility is linked to the circumstances of the corona virus epidemic, i.e. flexibility could not be applied if the epidemic situation no longer requires this. In this regard, I would just like to say that this difference in the timetable is indeed due to the fact that this has been seen as a less fundamental right-sensitive change compared to the amendment of the Basic Education Act, but in itself I see that the logic is the same, that both the change in the Basic Education Act and the use of these flexibility here are bound to the fact that it is necessary because of the epidemic situation, i.e. they are clearly linked to the corona epidemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u112	Madam President! During exceptional circumstances, vocational schoolchildren have studied at a distance in studies and in workplaces. Not all young people have the capacity to study independently. Thank you to all teachers and schoolchildren in vocational education and training for trying to organise the evidence as far as possible, even though the disease situation has led to a lot of catching-up in society. This reform is expected and welcome after the interest-bearing spring and in a situation where we do not know what is ahead in the autumn. At least there is a screen jam ahead, because those who are not graduating may have moved to autumn. As an old recipient of evidence, I consider it important that the displays should, as a general rule, continue to be carried out in practical tasks, in genuine work situations and in working processes. It's still good to keep that in mind. There you learn at work, you learn by doing the right jobs, and you can show your skills there in practice in the right jobs. Of course, during the epidemic, the implementation of evidence in this way has been challenging, especially in the services sector, when jobs are closed and there is a high risk of infection. It is proposed that the way in which the evidence is carried out and its regulation be temporarily modified so that the displays can be carried out instead of genuine work situations by carrying out various practical tasks. It is good that efforts have been made so far to take special account of graduates, but everything must be done to ensure that the school does not interrupt, extend or fall short. In all this, however, we must bear in mind the need to maintain quality standards. We must ensure that the labour market can count on qualified and skilled people, real professionals and women from school. We do not want to create a situation where qualifications are stretched and people are unable to work. We want to rebuild Finland, and these investments, which are ahead of us, need experts and factors. That's what this amendment of the law will do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u113	Madam Speaker! It is therefore proposed that the law on vocational education and training be amended on a temporary basis with regard to the way in which evidence is carried out. This is a very interesting law for me, because I was one of the first screen tests in Finland at the time in the Finnish National Board of Education. After all, the screen tests came in the '90s, and they have certainly evolved a lot, but it is a great thing that they exist. They are capable of identifying and evaluating skills. The situation with the corona virus has led to the fact that providing displays in real work situations and work processes is in practice very difficult or even impossible. According to the current law, evidence of skills and competence must be provided in genuine work situations, and therefore a temporary change is now proposed. According to this proposal, the change will allow the presentation of evidence of competence by carrying out other practical tasks which would therefore correspond as far as possible to genuine work situations. The conditions for the application of the amendments are linked to the corona virus situation, i.e. if the conditions of the epidemic ended during the period of validity of the law, exceptions to the provision of evidence can no longer be used. This proposed law would be in force until the end of July next year. This is a very good law. The changes increase the equality of students, as there have been significant differences in the provision of workplace evidence due to the exceptional circumstances of the spring. The proposed changes are justified because they allow for the provision of evidence despite exceptional circumstances and thus allow for the completion and completion of a qualification, but of course this will have to be re-established in the spring. You can't just move around like that, especially if you don't have enough of that skills in the schools, in the schools, in how they are organized. In exceptional circumstances, the legislation must, of course, support students' ability to complete their qualifications as well as possible, and certainly gymnastics movements there have now had to be carried out, innovative new practices to introduce these qualifications, and that is a good thing. However, I would have some reservations when it is said here that other tasks can also be used, that is, first of all, the situation is quite different from the norm, the real situation, and then other tasks can still be used. I will now take the example of nursing that man’s catheterization is a little difficult for a doll — or it may be much easier for a doll. As an experienced person, I say this, and that is why I would say that some skills are just those that should really be allowed to be on screen. Well, yeah, but there are a lot of other skills that you might not be able to do with a dry workout. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u114	Vocational education is a valuable and important secondary degree. In total, about 266,000 students studied in vocational education in 18 years and over 77,000 students completed the same degree in the same year. So we are talking about a huge group of people who, for their part, will build or build a society. Vocational education can be organised in different learning environments. Of course, such examples are classrooms, workshops, jobs or the digital learning environment. This world of diverse and diverse learning and learning is part of the strength of education. Of course, interest has contributed to or at least challenged vocational training. A specific difficulty factor has been accumulated in terms of evidence relevant to education and training and in terms of learning at the workplace. In vocational training, the implementation of evidence in genuine work situations and work processes has been difficult or even impossible in some fields of education during the corona virus epidemic. President! It is therefore proposed to amend the regulation now so that, for reasons of the corona virus epidemic, the evidence can be carried out by carrying out other practical tasks which, of course, aim to ensure that they are as closely as possible in line with genuine work situations and working processes. The aim is therefore to enable studies to be progressed and completed under exceptional and challenging conditions caused by the virus epidemic. President! I consider this proposal to be very sensible. Of course, the essential thing is that the quality of vocational training is maintained. Flexibility, agility and adaptation are important words, but the most important thing is that the right to study is maintained in every time and that the student's right to study is respected. Nor can I fail to mention that today's programme on quality and equality in vocational education and training has been published. In this context, EUR 80 million was also allocated to teachers and instructors in vocational education and training. This isn't a small thing. It covers 109 teachers from all over the country. This is how you make the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u115	Madam Speaker! Demonstration of professional skills by carrying out practical tasks in genuine work situations is a key element in ensuring the quality of vocational education and training. Although all the rapporteurs were in favour of the proposal, I am somewhat surprised that some people feel that this should even be introduced permanently. Simulation of the educational institution's environment, work situations and work processes to reflect reality is not quite simple. The current state of vocational education and training is already very harsh. In recent years, local education has been cut with plenty of hands. At the end of last year, the amistorometer also showed that 20% of respondents have thought about stopping because of learning difficulties. In exceptional circumstances, the aim is to make the methods of performing the evidence more flexible so that the completion of studies and degrees is not unnecessarily prolonged. According to the student survey, approximately one third of those graduating in spring 2020 will be completed on schedule. Graduation is delayed by over a fifth, and more than two out of five did not yet know the state of graduation. These are worryingly large figures. Even by the beginning of April, relatively few students had been confirmed whether they were graduating on schedule or not. The proposed changes are necessary and it would have been a good idea to bring this proposal to the Chamber earlier.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u116	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u117	Madam President! Congratulations, too, on my own behalf. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, has prepared a draft law on fixed-term company cost support. The aid is intended for companies whose turnover has fallen significantly due to the corona virus and which have difficult to adapt to. The aid is targeted above all at businesses and sectors affected by the corona crisis. Business foundations and associations would also be eligible for support. In order for the aid to be targeted specifically at firms affected by the interest rate, a model has been developed in which the aid is conditional on a reduction of at least 10 % compared to the reference period. In addition, if the company operates in such a sector, it is required that the company’s own turnover is reduced by at least 30 % compared to the reference period. The sectors eligible for support would be defined separately in the Government Decree, which will be adopted upon the entry into force of the Act. The situation of the industries will be assessed on the basis of the turnover development in April, comparing it with the average monthly turnover of the industry in March to June last year. The aid period would be two months, April and May. The turnover of the company in this period is compared to the comparable period of comparison to that of the sector-specific estimate, i.e. March to June last year. The aid would be targeted at fixed costs and wage costs. The aid is intended to be paid in the form of a lump sum, a ceiling of EUR 2000 and a total ceiling of EUR 500000. Aid shall be paid to undertakings whose turnover for four months during the reference period is not less than EUR 20000. The turnover data for April and the reference period 2020 are derived from the VAT data of the taxpayer. The State Treasury would manage cost support from the preparation of the practical process for decisions, final reports and possible recovery. In their application, undertakings should provide the information and explanations necessary for the granting and payment of the aid. The State Treasury could also consider the company’s application in a situation where the company does not fall within the scope of the Government Decree, the turnover of which would have fallen by at least 10 %. In this case, the company should show particularly strong reasons for a decrease in its turnover as a result of the interest rate situation. Cost support could be applied for, even if the company had already received other direct payments in the event of interest, but these subsidies would be deducted from cost support. Support for the restaurant sector and the interest rate subsidy for the sole entrepreneur granted by municipalities would be fully reduced and development aid granted by Business Finland and Ely Centres would be reduced by 70%. Mr President! Cost support cannot be granted to companies which have been in financial difficulties within the meaning of EU State aid regulation on 31 December 2019 and have failed to comply with their tax obligations or are bankrupt. It is also worth noting that subsidies received in the event of a corona disorder from Ely centres and Business Finland have been closed yesterday. Business Finland and Ely Centres normally process all applications that have arrived during the period of application for interest rate subsidies. After closing the search, Business Finland and Ely Centres finance companies with their normal financial instruments. It would be possible to apply for aid once the law and the related regulation have been adopted. The objective of cost support is to reduce the number of bankrupt companies by ensuring business continuity and maintaining economic production capacity. The purpose of the aid is to contribute to the rapid recovery of the economy after the acute crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u118	Mr President! Over the past two or three months, the government has tried to make it easier for companies to survive in a difficult situation. There have been more than a dozen methods used. Aids in the form of grants and loans from Ely Centres and Business Finland, aid for sole entrepreneurs, special support for the nutrition sector, reduction of employer's earnings-related pension contributions, tax payment systems, including the refund of value added tax, etc. have been in use. Finnvera's guarantees and the capital injections of the Finnish Industrial Investment are also worth the mention. It has been very important to adapt workers' lay-offs to the situation with the involvement of the social partners. This proposal by the government before us for cost support, which was originally referred to as general aid, is like a point on top of 'i' for all these previous forms of aid to companies. This is indeed a general subsidy aimed at reducing the number of bankrupt companies by ensuring business continuity and maintaining economic production capacity. The purpose of the aid is to contribute to the rapid recovery of the economy after the acute crisis. This cost subsidy can be applied for even if the company has already received other subsidies in the event of interest. However, the support for the restaurant sector and the interest subsidy granted by municipalities for sole entrepreneurs will be fully reduced and the development aid granted by Business Finland and Ely Centres to enterprises will be reduced by 70%.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u119	Madam Speaker! Thank you to the Minister for this proposal, and I am glad that this has now been brought here. I understand that this has not been an easy law, absolutely not. But now I would ask you about this when we are contacted very much and, as you know from my own background, I am contacted a lot by companies and entrepreneurs, and now, of course, I am interested in how to really get this moving forward quickly. I understand that it is in our hands here in Parliament and the Minister cannot do much about this right now, but I would still like you to be in it a little bit like a picket-up, so to speak, also with regard to its implementation. After all, many times a good law may go downhill in its misexecution. I kindly and respectfully hope that the machine will be started already and that as soon as that law comes out of here, it will be... I also appeal to colleagues to get this law out of here quickly and then to implement it quickly. It's time for that, otherwise these companies will squirm, and then we won't have a good one. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u120	Minister Lintilä, 1 minute from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u121	Mr President! The representative of Risikko is exactly right, and that speed is extremely important here. The basic point is that this is done entirely technically, that is, directly at the time, in practice, there, you can say, does not apply at times. In other words, the Tax Administration will inform the Treasury, and the Treasury will put this in payment. By the time we got this law pretty clear, the Treasury already started its own preparations for payment. At the point when the club in Parliament taps into this, the Treasury will be ready to make these payments very quickly. The objective at present is for the first payments to be made at the turn of the month to be on the move. The second point is that we have to use manual preparation, for example, for companies that come from a sector that is not within 10 % of this, or for example zeros, which can be found in areas such as rehabilitation or other similar. But the basic idea is precisely that there is a very quick payment here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u122	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u123	Madam President! First of all, my heartfelt congratulations. First of all, I would also like to thank the university staff and students for this spring. The universities made a quick digital leap, and it has taken a great deal of effort on everyone who has been leaping. This proposal proposes temporary changes to university law and polytechnic law due to the possible prolongation and restrictions of the corona virus epidemic. We still have a future in the fog. We do not know exactly what the duration of the corona virus epidemic is, and it is difficult to predict, for example, how the corona epidemic will develop within a year. This proposal takes into account the impact of the possible continuation of the epidemic on the statutory obligations of universities related to the organisation of studies and ensures the legal security of students. First of all: It is proposed to introduce provisions in the higher education legislation on absenteeism in the first academic year if the student is prevented from starting his/her studies due to an epidemic-related official decree or other serious reasons related to the epidemic. This amendment is based on the proposal by Mr Unif and Mr Arene. The legislation currently in force limits the student’s ability to register as absent during the first academic year. After receiving the place of study, it is only possible to register as absent in the first academic year if the student performs a service in accordance with the Civil Service Act, the Civil Service Act or the Women's Voluntary Service Act, is on maternity, paternity or parental leave or is unable to begin his/her studies due to his/her illness or disability. These reasons are set out in a list which is exhaustive and the legislation does not recognise the various reasons for exceptional circumstances which may prevent the beginning of studies. Due to the current corona virus epidemic, in particular, the start of studies by international students may be prevented, for example, due to travel restrictions, prolonged processing of applications for study permits or other reasons related to the activities of the authorities. The regulatory provisions referred to in this provision may be national or other national regulations and may relate, for example, to restrictions on entry or travel. Other heavy causes related to the epidemic in accordance with the provision refer, for example, to problems related to the residence permit process in the student's country of origin or to the lengthening of processing times of Finnish diplomatic missions or the Finnish Immigration Service. The proposed provisions require that the student is effectively prevented from starting his/her studies, i.e. the student's own decision not to start his/her studies is not sufficient to justify his/her absence. The proposed provisions do not oblige higher education institutions to organise the same courses at the same time, both as local and distance education, in a situation where contact teaching has been returned but there are still problems with entry. If, in such a situation, the university does not provide distance learning, the student may register as absent on the basis of the provision. Without the proposed provisions, students studying in international programmes would have to register to be present, which would take up the time to complete a qualification. In addition, citizens of non-EU and EEA countries should pay a tuition fee during the period of attendance and any allowances would be left to the discretion of each university. Second of all: It is proposed to add provisions to the University and University of Applied Sciences Laws that universities are not obliged to organise studies and guidance leading to a qualification in such a way that students can complete a degree in a targeted manner provided for by law if it is not possible to organise the studies included in the curriculum due to an epidemic. Delays in the progress of studies due to such changes in education arrangements would be taken into account when deciding to extend the right to study. Derogations from the obligation to organise higher education and guidance in higher education during the coronavirus epidemic have been provided for in the implementing regulations previously in force under the Emergency Act until 13.5.2020. Regulation on the obligation to organise education is necessary in the event of a possible continuation of the epidemic in the next academic year. According to the legislation in force, the university must organise education and student guidance in such a way that it is possible to complete full-time studies within the time limits laid down in the University and University of Applied Sciences Act. Students have the right to complete studies leading to a degree in accordance with the university's degree code and curriculum. The methods of organising and organising university and polytechnic education are not specified in more detail, but universities have a wide range of opportunities to carry out education and training in a variety of ways, including in the form of local education. According to information received from universities and universities of applied sciences, distance education has mostly been very good. However, when universities organise education and guidance rather than local education in alternative ways, they must ensure that students are able to complete a degree in the goal-oriented course provided for in the University Act and the Polytechnic Act. Education organised in alternative ways must also take care of the research-based nature of education and the quality of education. However, due to the nature of the field, some areas of higher education are more challenging to provide distance education, which has slowed down the progress of studies under exceptional circumstances. There are laboratory conditions or other special facilities in use and not all of them have been arranged. The organisation of compulsory traineeships has also been a challenge and studies may have been delayed due to the lack of such training opportunities. According to the provisions now proposed, the university would not be obliged to organise studies and guidance leading to a qualification in such a way that the student can complete the degree in a targeted manner provided for by law, if it is not possible to organise the studies included in the curriculum due to the coronavirus epidemic. For some students, the delay in studies may lead to the end of the right to study before the studies included in the degree have been completed. The student's legal security would be ensured in the decision-making process on the extension of the student's right to study, and if the student needs to apply for more time to complete his or her studies, the delays in the progress of the studies due to changes in teaching arrangements related to the corona virus epidemic should be taken into account during the additional period of the decision. According to the proposal, the duration of the law would be such that the laws would enter into force as soon as possible and would remain in force until the end of July next year. However, the possibility of applying the proposed provisions is linked to the current epidemic situation, i.e. the expiry date of the law may change and therefore is irrelevant. For example, if the epidemic would end already in autumn 2020 and entry would be facilitated in such a way that it would be possible to carry out studies normally in the spring of 2021, the proposed provisions on absenteeism will not therefore be applicable. This second part has been prepared for the wishes of universities, and this is urgent, as was the case with this urgency in the government proposals presented earlier. However, written comments have been requested from Unifi ry, Arene ry, SYL ry and SAMOK ry, and all of them supported this proposal. There has therefore been no other separate consultation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u124	Madam President! Thank you to Minister Kosonen for a detailed presentation, and in particular for these new starting points, where we will dismantle the applicant state and raise the level of competence in our country. The training will carry us over the corona. The Government proposes to amend two points in the University Act and in the University of Applied Sciences Act. This is done on a temporary basis because of the state of emergency caused by the epidemic and the restrictions associated with it. The aim is to facilitate the position of students starting their degree studies at the university next autumn and the following spring during the epidemic. It is a good thing that this proposal will allow this to be registered as absent in the first academic year if it is precisely because of an epidemic that the start of studies is prevented. This affects international students in particular. We still have a shortage of experts in many areas, and it is necessary that international students who are now in difficulty with the restrictions in many countries also apply to Finland. Of course, we also need to act in such a way that they also remain here after school to serve our country. This second point relates to the teaching arrangements. When changes in the interest rate may delay studies, it is good to take this situation into account when decisions are made in connection with the right to study. The changes are part of the interest rate measures in order to ensure that the training wheels are running in society, and, at the same time, it is a question of legal protection for students. When we combine curricula and corona precautions, it is certainly a challenge at times. It is important that the flexibility and changes we make do not undermine the quality of education in higher education institutions and also the skills acquired by students. In addition, the delay in studies due to the interest rate must be accepted as a criterion for defining the periods of examination. No one should be exposed to their health in their studies. Let's take care of college students. For their part, they're taking our country across the corona.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u125	Mr President! Indeed, periodic changes are proposed to the higher education laws due to the corona virus situation, which would be in force until the end of July next year, i.e. the whole of next school year and intended to enter into force as soon as possible. The Minister has already presented this with merit. Now, of course, the situation is that many universities have already announced that they will provide education as a general rule in the autumn term as distance education, some even very much as distance education. In practice, universities are therefore prepared to organise distance learning in such a way that international students are also able to participate in the education. That is a good thing, because this bill also relates to international students. These proposed changes are very much based on the proposals made by Unifi ry and Arene ry, which have been surveyed by all universities and universities of applied sciences in the spring. So, what is the main content of this proposal: both the University Act and the University of Applied Sciences Act add provisions that students can register as absent during the first academic year if they are prevented from starting their studies for reasons related to the epidemic. After all, the current law does not allow for absenteeism in the first academic year except in some of the situations provided for by the law, which do not include the epidemic. In that sense, this is an excellent change. Registering as absent would also facilitate the position of international students arriving here and the activities of higher education institutions. This entry can be a challenge for the next academic year. In addition, the law is amended so that universities and universities of applied sciences are not obliged to organise studies leading to a degree in such a way that the student can complete the degree in a targeted course. This may, of course, lead to an extension of study periods, but this has also been taken into account. However, the law provides that if there is a delay in learning due to the causes of the epidemic, this will be taken into account in the decision to extend the right to study. Well, these proposals for these laws are very welcome and, of course, it is important that we do not just think that this can be done, but that we support students to graduate, for example, in challenging situations, and certainly universities need support to do so. It is justified that, in the first academic year, you can register as absent because of official regulations relating to the virus epidemic, so that the student does not pass the student’s time if you are not effectively able to promote your studies, for example because of cases of disease. There is concern, however, whether this could lead to unnecessary lengthening of study periods, and I therefore believe that it would be worthwhile to create such a support package for universities and, above all, students, but more intensively now ensuring that, for example, distance learning or otherwise extending the scope of studies, can support university students. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u126	Madam Speaker! Universities and universities of applied sciences are a significant flagship and pride in Finnish education, education and research. Even during the Korona Spring they have done what they can so that teaching arrangements not only in terms of studies but also in terms of entrance exams would not destroy the foundation of Finnish society, education. This proposal proposes quite sensible changes to both the university and polytechnic laws — all of this, of course, on a temporary basis during this corona virus epidemic. The proposal includes flexibility, for example, if the student is prevented from starting his/her studies due to official regulations relating to the epidemic or other serious reasons related to the epidemic. This is very common sense. Similarly, a higher education institution would not be obliged to organise studies leading to a qualification if it is not possible to organise the studies included in the curriculum because of the existence of the virus. Such delays in the progress of studies due to changes in education arrangements would be taken into account when deciding to extend the right to study. These are all necessary changes in these special times. President! I would also like to join Mr Kinnus in thanking the government, and in particular the Minister for Responsibility, Mr Koso. Indeed, the government is investing in sustainable growth in the amending budget by allocating these additional funds to higher education institutions and research. It is a very big thing when the one-off cluster of university start-ups is increased by EUR 124 million. This amount will provide the universities with 2,600 new starting places and 2200 new starting places for universities of applied sciences. Increasing the level of competence of Finnish people, supporting young people's opportunities to move forward in life, and at the same time increasing the confidence of young people in the future, as the candidate population of higher education institutions is dismantled. President! Now that more than half of the representatives in this Chamber are from Seinäjoki, I cannot help saying that I believe and hope, of course, that Seinäjoki University of Applied Sciences will succeed in this. I know, therefore, that the Minister has been well informed and quoted by these aspirations of Seinäjoki University of Applied Sciences. I say this because the high-quality and high-quality activities of Seinäjoki University of Applied Sciences are extremely important for the future of the South Ostrobothnian province.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u127	Mr President! When the minister is here, it is, quite rightly, very good to say — Kivisaari actually took words out of my mouth when I thought I was talking about these starting places — that it is terribly important and wonderful that you have received more of them. You have done a good job there, and what is important is that they are also viewed regionally, and indeed the Seinäjoki region needs them. Then we also have many other issues, just like sectoral ones. Then, of course, it is important that, when those starting places are raised, the unit price is sufficient that it does not end up being taken into account for the quality of education. But while the minister is here now, I would like to ask you about this, given that JTS has also been dealt with today. In the JTS opinion, the committee also drew attention to these student choices of universities and universities and, in particular, to changes in the selection criteria due to the interest rate situation. The change was, among other things, the reduction in the quota of students selected on the basis of a previous university selection test and the corresponding increase in the proportion of students selected on the basis of certificates in several faculties. The decisions on the change were made after the end of the joint selection process, when the status of applicants who were legitimately trusted by the selection test in the application process was weakened, depending on the university and the faculty, and this is problematic for the legal security of those involved in the application process. After all, there have now been dark complaints and complaints to the Parliamentary Ombudsman, and I would now ask you, Minister, when I know that you have been on this issue and that by 5 June you have been asked by the Ministry of Education and Culture to report back to it — even though universities are autonomous, but it does have that connection with the Ministry of Education and Culture — that what the Ministry of Education and Culture was trying to do to ensure that this did not happen. After all, there is the possibility of fraud and all the complaints that have been made — that these remote tests are not necessarily what they should have been legally, and then, of course, this change in the selection criteria during the application period is a pretty serious case. Of course, depending on what the Ombudsman says, it will certainly affect this situation. It is wonderful that the starting points have now been increased, but that does not help with the legal problem, and I would like to ask you, the Minister, how the Ministry of Education and Culture has tried to influence the fact that this would not happen, given that the regional authorities provided 17.3. permission to conduct selection tests at the schools.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u128	Mr President! Thanks for the thanks. This performance has indeed been done in good cooperation with Unif and Arene. It is clear to me that such rapid changes must be made, and I believe that we too in this House will be able to act quickly so that we can get the laws into place and find the key to cooperation in that too. These starting points have really come in need, as Mr Kivisaari well explained about the applicant state. Of course, we are also looking at the important situation in the south as a whole. The representative, the chairman of the committee, on the question of fairness, fairness with regard to these choices: Since the end of March, we have had a situation room together with universities and the Ministry of Education and the National Board of Education because of this epidemic situation in relation to many of the issues related to this epidemic. There we have also gone through these selection tests and the choices made by universities in general. This is precisely the case, which means that universities are autonomous and that autonomy includes student choices and the organisation of entrance exams, but we from the Ministry of Education have constantly raised these legal principles and consulted lawyers and thus helped them. After all, in colleges, healthcare professionals, Academy professionals, candidate professionals and lawyers have been used to organise the selection tests, so this has certainly been very well thought out from that point of view. This is not a small matter when we leave tens of thousands, over 100,000 to choose and reorganize the choices. After all, at the end of April the epidemic situation was still such that the predictions showed that the epidemic in Finland would have been just May to June — the scene was still that way. However, the selection tests have been completed, and now we are getting relief at these starting points. In addition, there are also more study opportunities through the Open University of Applied Sciences and the Open University of Applied Sciences. I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u129	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for these, and it is very good that you have been there to monitor this situation. As far as that is concerned, I do know that universities and municipalities, for example, are autonomous, but I remember that when I was Minister of Local Government there were different events, and even though there is an autonomous municipality, there are still some issues that can be addressed. That's what I'm worried about now. What will be the end of it? It is excellent, to which you referred, that we will have those starting points and that we will also have them through open channels. It makes this situation a little easier, but it is a difficult situation. Health above, of course, must go, that is quite clear, but it is a bit annoying for me too, that 17.3. The regional government authorities allow you to use it, and order that schools close, but the selection tests can be carried out with regard to health and safety, and then we are now in such a situation. Well, there is a lot there — when I checked, I wonder how many of those complaints are currently there, but some are related to those remote tests and some are related to changes in the selection criteria. But let's see what the end result is. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u130	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-09-ps-90.u131	Madam President! Just to be sure of what we did in that committee. After all, we have produced this report and we absolutely believe that this recognition of professional qualifications has been done quite well in Finland. But since this came about, however, that the Commission was not satisfied with the procedure, we received a comment on it, and now the legislative proposals have been corrected. However, I would ask you to bear in mind that Valvira, for example, has done these things quite correctly, applied exactly as the law now requires, so there has certainly been no problem in that respect. But the laws have now been corrected in line with what the European Commission has demanded, and that is good, and it is great that we managed to make this progress even during this period of interest. There was nothing different about this, but we can move on with these legislation. — — — — Thank you.
