ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u2	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u3	Madam President! It has become apparent that the government has tried to conceal the EUR 750 billion package of documents from Parliament and therefore from the whole population. On the package, the Commission is putting Finland into debt imprisonment with a gift of solidarity, and you want to hide the debate on it. A week ago, the government explained that there must be a sufficient public debate on support packages. Immediately after that, you demand the silence of the Parliament. So which one of you had been said seriously? Mr Ojanen, Professor of Constitutional Law, finds your activities very questionable. Answer me, government, clearly now: why did you want to hide the taxpayers' billions of papers?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u4	Madam President! It is excellent that Mrs Elomaa is asking this question, because it is a matter that needs to be calmly addressed here with the seriousness of the matter. The Government has not deliberately concealed anything and has not prevented Parliament from exercising its right to information, but it is a perfectly normal procedure to protect Finland's negotiating objectives in the ongoing large European financial framework. This has been customary in all previous procedures within the financial framework. I remember that myself after eight years of being a Member of Parliament in a large committee. The previous government also asked Parliament to remain silent during the negotiations on the financial framework. The last time I remember this was in 2018, and this document is still fully covered by secrecy in parliamentary deliberations. But there appears to have been a slight blunder in dealing with this issue, which is linked to this corona crisis. Since experts were consulted in a large committee over the Teams procedure in social media, the E-letter of the Government, which was then subject to confidentiality, could not be distributed to experts, but this is a matter for Parliament and it is probably the Parliament itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u6	Madam President! It's a very heavy blunder. Is it difficult for the government to grant a generous donation of billions of dollars, or is it the issue of concealment of this debt imprisonment package towards the Federal Republic of Common Debt and Current Transfers? You are clearly following the example of Foreign Minister Haavisto, who hid the bringing of terrorist women to Finland. You will not be able to circumvent your attempts to conceal documents, and this is not an accusation made by the Finns of Peru, but the Constitutional Committee, experts and the press have been harshly critical of this secrecy. Tell us once again how this can be discussed when you have acted misleadingly. If the essential things have been kept out, why have they been kept out? Will there not be a direct answer to this now, or was it a blunder?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u7	Madam President! In order to be clear, I will try to open this whole thing up again. This is a perfectly normal procedure when it comes to negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, and as part of this, of course, we are also going through this whole recovery fund. We have negotiations ahead of us, and that is what we are doing. Of course, we cannot open these detailed negotiating positions publicly. Of course, all that material has been provided to Parliament. It has been a matter of silence, but Parliament has received it and a large committee has dealt with it. And the great committee itself, that is, Parliament itself has decided not to hand over these documents to experts in some respects. This is not a matter of Government origin. The Government has not asked a large committee or a parliament in any way that these documents should not be handed over to experts, but this has been a decision taken by a large committee and Parliament, and it is good that this has now been opened, because there has also been a variety of information about this in the public domain, which has not been entirely correct.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u8	Madam Speaker! In the EU, Finland is in the process of eternal debt imprisonment. If the Commission's proposal were to come true, Finland would give more power to the EU. The EU is becoming a Union of transfers. Although the sitting government is so spineless that it seems to allow this, the matter should be examined very carefully from the point of view of the Finnish Constitution. My question to you is: when VAT is 24% in Finland and VAT is 22% in Italy — VAT on food is 14% in Finland and it is only 4% in Italy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u9	Mr President! This same whole was discussed last week in Parliamentary Question Time, and I already replied to this whole. This recovery fund is not about saving any individual Member State of the European Union. It is not even in its whole class that it has such an instrument value. Above all, in the post-corona crisis, we are now looking for the common food for Europe's recovery, which is also of great benefit to Finland. If we stayed in such a very difficult post-crisis climate and at a time of low growth, at a time of exhilaration, it would not benefit Europe, it would not benefit Finland. That would be a very disastrous situation for us, and that is why we have so here in the country of origin applied through the amending budgets — yesterday Parliament dealt with this latest amending budget — as well as with the common European instruments, such as this recovery fund, the keys to growth for the entire European economy, employment for growth, and together we will emerge stronger from this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u11	Madam President! The left-wing parties, and especially the Greens, have traditionally stressed the openness and transparency of preparation and decision-making, and this approach is warmly supported by the Finns of Finland. Now that we have the red-greenest government in the history of Finland, it would not be unreasonable to expect the historical openness and transparency of decision-making and preparation. However, if we look at the preparation of these solidarity mechanisms or, for example, the coordination of interest rate measures or the import of Isis women, then the government's action seems to be rather characterised by secrecy and evasiveness. On the other hand, information kept confidential is constantly leaking to the public from the committees. I therefore ask in all sincerity and in general terms: do the government and the government parties themselves believe that the government's culture of action has been exemplary in terms of transparency?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u12	Mr President! The government sees very strongly that it is good for us to be as transparent as possible, and that is why, among other things, these recent decisions of principle on interest rate measures have explicitly emphasised the desire to be transparent in providing information on matters that are deeply affecting people. Of course, confidential matters cannot be given, but otherwise all information should be given and as transparent as possible. As I have described, with regard to the negotiation of this recovery fund and the multiannual financial framework, this has been a matter of Parliament's decision that some experts — I do not know the process of the large committee, but apparently in connection with remote connections — have not been fully handed over those documents. This is a matter for Parliament, it does not come from the Government. As far as the situation in Al-Hol is concerned, I remember in this Chamber, too, discussions that have even demanded that matters be dealt with individually. Of course, that is not what we can do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u13	Madam President! Of course, it is quite true, as Mr Tuppurainen said, that when it comes to securing Finland's negotiating position, for example, certain parts of the positions are typically included in the request for silence. However, it is not quite normal for the government's position on a particular issue to be concealed in its entirety. In general, it has only concerned those parts which explicitly safeguard that negotiating position. And when the Finnish system is such that the government cannot ignore Parliament's position on the European tables and that Parliament's position is sought from a large committee, and then again the large committee is given an opinion by the Constitutional Committee, which will then determine the legal framework again — yes, when Finland quite rightly underscores the rule of law in those European arenas, then would it not be extremely important that we also take care of our own rule of law and ensure that the Constitutional Committee can carry out its constitutional function which it has, and hence also evaluate these legal principles.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u14	Madam President! Parliament's right to information in this EU recovery package has been fully safeguarded. All existing information has been forwarded to Parliament's committees, and this is followed by a number of E-letters, U-letters, Government proposals — and the debate continues in this respect. But, President-in-Office, we have now wanted to open up this debate to the wider public, and in an exceptional way to make this debate open to the wider public by means of a press release, because it is quite true that this EU recovery fund is an important proposal, and the government's press release has opened up some of its very central negotiating points so that this debate can take place. And now that there was a debate in the committees on this silence, we also opened up further points to open up to the public debate. But, ladies and gentlemen, it has always been the custom to ask the whole document to remain silent when, for example, it was a question of the negotiations on the financial framework. There's no way we've done this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u15	There are other questions about this theme for the other groups, and it is also a question for the Christian Parliamentary Group. — Ms Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u16	Madam President! The government has acted in a questionable way in that it marked the whole document as a matter of silence, not only in the context of the negotiations on the financial framework, where it is quite right to protect these Finland's negotiating positions, but also in the context of this recovery fund, which is historically large and presents many problems — both the problems of the Treaties and the problems raised by the Finnish Constitutional Committee — and which is transforming the Union's direction into a completely different one, a debt and transfer union, into one for which the Finns have not given the mandate. The government in its entirety wanted to put this document within the sphere of secrecy. There has been that mistake, and I hope that the government will acknowledge this mistake and will say that this cannot be the case in the future. But other questionable issues have also occurred in these crisis funding. For example, the government has ignored the position of the Constitutional Committee that these crisis loans from the European Stability Mechanism should have called for economic conditionality. Why has this not been done, and why have we not received in Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u17	Mr President! Once again, this is a document with negotiating objectives, a multiannual financial framework, through which this EU recovery fund will also be allocated. It is quite normal that when the document contains negotiating objectives and perhaps positions that also have the objectives of other countries, Parliament is asked to remain silent. This has been done, for example, during the last parliamentary term of 2018, in connection with the ongoing negotiations on the financial framework. The whole document has been requested to remain silent by the previous government, and it is still there, and so, Mr Essayah, has also been dealt with in relation to this document.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u18	Congressman Essayah, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u19	Mr President! I still have doubts as to whether the government has followed the clear line of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that health-based crisis loans from the European Stability Mechanism were clearly required to involve economic conditionality. I understand that Finland has adopted this package, which does not include economic conditionality. We have still not received an answer to the question that, in the case of this guarantee fund with very high risk loans and the Constitutional Committee, Finland is not one of the first to register there, so is Finland one of the first to register there. We have not received any response to this in Parliament, although I have asked the previous finance minister here several times. I am asking the whole government: why is the government hiding the way in which the Finnish Government is going into these crisis mechanisms, and why not give Parliament clear information?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u20	Mr President! This is a serious issue, and there is no reason to create the impression that there is something unclear or that there is a desire to conceal things. As such, this matter of the European permanent stability mechanism is a matter for the Minister of Finance, but I know that, yes, the positions of the Constitutional Committee have been carefully taken into account in the decision-making process. The Eurogroup, which dealt with this issue, concluded that, of course, the Treaty on a permanent stability mechanism is being complied with, but that conditionality is different from that of the euro crisis, and we will all recognise that this is not a financial crisis, the euro crisis, but a disaster situation comparable to a natural disaster and the necessary crisis instrument to be used in that context. But there is also conditionality for this advance loan from the ESM, and we are very careful to follow Parliament's positions in all decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u21	This question has also been of interest to the Business Now representative. — Mr Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u22	Madam President! The closure of the northern border proved, at least in part, unconstitutional. Similarly, maintaining the manufacturing law in a situation where there are only dozens of new infections per day is a constitutional problem. The manufacturing law cannot be maintained only in the interests of certainty. The problem is how it is found to have ended when there is no provision in the manufacturing law as to how it is to be decided. The uncertainty of the situation has been increased by the failure of mask trades and, most recently, by the preparation of the EU crisis package. In addition, the Audit Committee has criticised the poor drafting of legislation. Mr Government, how do you ensure that the rule of law is implemented in times of crisis, and how do you intend to say that the emergency conditions have ended?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u23	Mr President! It's really a stand-by law, not a manufacturing law. With regard to the Act on Preparedness, we will assess this whole on Monday next week, as we have openly announced to the public. We will be going through the epidemic situation very carefully and the situation as to whether there are any further conditions for the validity of the articles of the Emergency Act, and as soon as this requirement of necessity disappears, the government will issue regulations to abolish the articles of the Emergency Act, that is, if it were to be so that even until these articles were thought to be in force, they could not be maintained. This is where the government works, and we get an assessment from experts. I know that this assessment is currently being prepared for the government, an assessment of whether or not there are any further conditions for the validity of the articles of the Emergency Act and, if not, the Government will act accordingly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u24	Mr President! It is very important to note that the Emergency Act is not being maintained more than is necessary. As far as the north border is concerned, the border issue has never been a matter that has been regulated since the Emergency Act, but has been linked to other legislation that goes to the Ministry of the Interior. At the moment, these normal laws are being prepared by the government, so that, if there were to be another wave in the autumn, decisions might be taken within the framework of normal legislation. Next Monday, we'll see what the situation is. Currently, only a few aspects of social and health care, intensive care capacity and staff holiday rights, for example, are in force under the Emergency Act. In other words, this will be the case, and the government is preparing for a situation where the preparedness law is no longer needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u25	Mr President! The subject of our question is transparency in decision-making. The European Court of Human Rights condemned the violation of the Finnish Convention on Human Rights when an Iraqi man who, according to the Finnish Immigration Service, was not entitled to international protection had returned to Iraq and was killed. Even at the time, we wondered how an unverified death certificate, which can easily be bought online, could serve as evidence for the EIT, even though the Finnish Immigration Service expressed doubts about this. Then it turns out he wasn't dead. The matter is being investigated by the Krp and it appears that it is a serious scam involving several people. The political circus, which was mainly conducted under the leadership of the Greens, was futile. It was taken to the EIT with the help of an NGO. There's a lot of such things going on, especially in the immigration business. The Green Left government in particular seems to have a lot of confidence in these organisations and the truths they have presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u26	Mr President! Thank you for the question. This case is being investigated by the police. That is why, of course, we cannot comment on such a matter. It is of course important that the Finnish immigration policy should be reformed in order to ensure legal security in the asylum process and that the processes are of high quality and fast, and it has become clear that there have been problems in the past in the processes of the Finnish Immigration Service,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u28	Mr President! Regrettably, the government's communicative values of reliability, transparency, clarity, courage and interaction have for a long time been mere rhetoric. The government's culture of secrecy has been marking things for a long time. I therefore hope that you will take seriously the eradication of this wrong culture. As far as the EU Recovery Fund is concerned, it is clear that the coalition is constructively critical of the government's proposal. And it is clear that in return we want more market discipline and conditionality than the government. My question, however, goes to the criterion of the distribution of money. Poland, among others, has relatively suffered far less from the interest rate than Finland. Still, it's in net receivers on the fourth floor. Ireland also bounces out of the criteria. What will you do to ensure that the criteria that would now be used to distribute the money are better targeted at the countries affected by the interest rate?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u29	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to say that transparency is very important in all our joint decision-making and, in particular, in this government. And once again: Parliament's right to information has been fully respected. You have received this document, you will have it and we will also be able to hold a civil debate, because the government has made a separate statement. But in relation to this criterion. Yes, it is also one thing for us that we want an improvement on the Commission's proposal. Of course, we will not accept the Commission's proposals as they stand, but we will put our own views on them, even the marginal conditions, if that is what we want to say, which will make this whole even better for Finland. One of them relates to the way in which support from this MFF is allocated specifically to the target areas of the interest rate crisis. It cannot be justified for the Commission to look at the situation five years ago — employment and GDP — if funds are to be allocated specifically to the regions affected by this crisis. This is what we're looking for.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u30	Mr President! I think it is necessary to comment on this inappropriate first part of the speech, which referred to the fact that the government had somehow acted in secret or had not shared information or had otherwise acted improperly. I would like to remind Parliament that during the whole of this crisis, we have kept all the parliamentary groups — not just the parliamentary groups of the government parties but all the parliamentary groups — informed of the evolution of the situation. We have had a dialogue with all the parliamentary groups at various points — when emergency conditions have been decided, the provisions of the Emergency Act have been introduced as along the way in all points — and we have informed the parliamentary groups. We have answered the written questions of the MPs as they should be. We have also responded to requests for information from the parliamentary group, even though officials have been very burdened with dealing with this corona crisis. We have tried to answer all of these as quickly as possible. In my opinion, the flow of information has also been quite exceptional for opposition groups,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u31	Mr President! In accordance with the instructions of the Council of Presidents of Parliament, the large parliamentary committee acted in such a way that, as a general rule, expert consultations are at a distance but that documents which are in some respects confidential or secretive cannot be processed at a distance. That is why, at the meeting last Friday, the experts only had public documents, but the committee specifically decided that we would like to hear the views of the experts on the document as a whole, and that is why an extraordinary meeting was held on Monday to which, despite the corona restrictions, the experts were invited. The large committee also asked for a reduction in the government's request for secrecy, as the government has laudably done, and all of this, of course, serves to enable us to have a sensible, informed political debate on this important issue. And I ask: will the government now continue to think more closely about it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u33	Mr President! It is now appropriate to thank the chairman of the large committee, Mr Hassi, for this report, because this also tells us, as it were, the other side of the coin. The Government has wanted this whole document to be submitted to Parliament, but because of these instructions from the Council of Presidents, it could not be forwarded to experts over this Teams connection, and this debate arose. But we always want to act in a way that respects Parliament's right to information. All the previous negotiations on the financial framework have been conducted in such a way — as I recall when I have been in a large committee for eight years — that the whole document has been silent. Now we are going to dismantle this, and if the House asks, we will continue to do so, and certainly we will also do this on our own initiative. Transparency and transparency are our guiding principles, and on such an important issue it is also necessary to promote a broad civil dialogue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u34	Mr President! A very important principle is that the Government is fully open to Parliament in matters that fall within the decision-making power of Parliament. And on this issue of the EU Recovery Fund, the government has acted with complete transparency in relation to Parliament. We have all received that information. Another important principle is that, when a large committee mandated the government to negotiate in the European Union, issues such as documents with Finland's negotiating objectives will be kept confidential because it would significantly undermine Finland's negotiating possibilities in the decision-making process of the Union, and this principle has also been realised here. The only thing was what the chairman of the large committee said just now that because of remote connections, the experts did not get these documents to themselves. And I would like it to be this way on the government side: there would now be an understanding for Parliament in the sense that because of this corona we had this kind of blunder, that the experts did not receive these documents, and we corrected it in a great deal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u35	Mr President! Yes, it is that the government relies on the confidence of Parliament and that Parliament itself decides on its own working methods, both in terms of expert consultations and other work, and we rely on your confidence in this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u36	Madam President! Access to information is an extremely important virtue in all matters when public matters are dealt with. Over the past few years, I have often found myself in a situation where I have not even been able to get my own documents, which concern me, because they were classified because of certain endangered species. At the time, I was too tired to make a complaint to the Court of Human Rights when I wondered that it was strange now that my own documents concerning myself were no longer available. But it came to mind from this debate now — the European Union is known to be moaning a huge amount of paper, and yet in the committees where we are dealing with matters, the representatives are aware that there is now, for example, a matter of silence, so is such a procedure possible, Prime Minister, that we should make such a line decision, that the papers coming to the committees are public for the group who sit there in the room. Everyone knows that information from committee meetings is always confidential. There's nothing out there about those stories. The opinion then has what it has, or the report. Would this be a procedure?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u37	Mr President! Of course, we are acting in accordance with the procedures that have been followed until now in good administration, and we will, of course, provide Parliament with all the information and information that Parliament needs to support its decision-making in connection with negotiations on the financial framework and other Union matters, for example. After all, the big committee is the one who decides on Finland's position. The Government will bring a whole to the large committee, and the large committee will assess which committees it needs opinions on this whole and how it will then involve the other committees in this work, but of course the government will act on this mandate given by the large committee and will seek to negotiate matters in the interests of Finland as required by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u38	And on this point, the last question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u39	Madam President! The fact is that you, the government, were silent about the entire EUR 750 billion gift and loan package. We are now discussing a really big, huge issue. It is a question of fate for Finland, who will be paid. According to the Finnish Constitution, if there is a need for silence, the restriction must be precise and only apply to the necessary parts. Does the government not know the Constitution, or do you not care? We Finns have demanded respect for the Constitution and the strictness of silence if silence were necessary at all. There is clearly much to be desired in the transparency of the government, and I repeat, just as Mr Halla-aho did: why was transparency not sought?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u41	Mr President! I hope that Mrs Elomaa listened here to the speech of the chairman of the large committee, Mr Hassi and perhaps Mr Kiljune. You will be able to learn more about them than you can about how this has been done.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u44	Next question, Mr Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u45	Mr President! Korona has pushed the economy into a crisis. The Coalition Party wants to strengthen people's purchasing power and put a stop to money laundering using the power grid monopoly. We've put together a legal package to control electricity transmission prices.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u49	Madam President! I'm not going to start remembering the history from where all these things started. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u50	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u51	Mr President! Your explanation that electricity transmission prices cannot now be tackled because of parliamentarianism is incomprehensible. After all, the government has only just brought the largest amending budget in the history of this Parliament, which even resuscitates the Pandas of Ähtär, and now you say that it is not possible to strengthen purchasing power by reducing transfer prices. As a result of your choice, the monopoly barons in Caruna alone generate EUR 300000 every day from scratch. We want to correct the model by which monopoly profits are calculated. The risks of network operations are almost non-existent, so the yield allowed in the sample model is low. There is no need for you to go behind the EU. The principles of the pricing control model are also enshrined in the law in other EU countries. Minister Lintilä, do you think it is right that, in this situation, the owner of the network monopoly actually receives a return of more than 30% on its capital? In this respect, do you promise Parliament that the government will intervene in this monopoly revenue by law?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u52	Madam President! I appreciate, Mr Vestman, very much that you are prepared to correct the mistake you have made, and I promise you that the proposal that will come to the House in the autumn will correct this error where it is possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u53	Mr President! To Minister Lintilä, I can say at the outset that it was Minister Haavisto who proposed the Caruna networks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u56	Madam President! I also appreciate Mr Kauma, which is that we politicians should probably raise their hands more often as a sign of error. I agree that these increases, which have taken place in some companies, are not in relation to the work that has been done there on behalf of the companies. If we look back on that old background, it must have left it, from storm Mauri, when we in Parliament were pretty much in agreement that we had to get the ground arches done, and that was when we started to do this. This has been misused by companies to improve their own financial situation. We are now going to make changes to the draft law that we are preparing, that is to say, we are going to be able, for example, to continue the time allocated to land archery.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u57	Mr President! Finns will receive very stunning feedback about these electricity transmission prices. It pisses Finns off enormously and precisely because it cannot be influenced. It's like a machine pushing a bigger bill. Indeed, every single Member of Parliament has been contacted by the public. 92 per cent of the respondents considered electricity transfer pricing to be unreasonable in the Union's survey. In this Chamber, we have the opportunity to influence this issue. Instead of blaming the past or looking back, you, Minister Lintila and a good government, have the opportunity to influence this issue. The Coalition Party has acted in this regard as the responsible opposition party should, and under the leadership of Mr Vestman, the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party has submitted a legislative initiative which has been carefully prepared. It is ready, and it could be accepted immediately in this Chamber, if that is what you would like. Is the government prepared to take up this coalition initiative to moderate electricity transmission prices?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u59	Mr President! This matter has been raised to the Government Programme, and this matter is being addressed and the Government's proposal is being brought to Parliament, as is the case with the Minister. Lintila did a good job of filming. The coalition has, of course, only been in the opposition for a while now, before that, many times as a government party. Of course, it would have been good if this matter had already been addressed,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u64	Madam President! The Finns have acted consistently. We were against the Caruna deal. In several alternative budgets we have also raised the issue of lower electricity prices, lower electricity transmission prices, and you did not, for example, hear this during the last period. Of course it's good that you can hear me now. Madam President! The elderly are used to saving up everything. They live in detached houses, and electric heating heats their homes. They are trying to save that electricity so that the bill is as low as possible, but no matter how much it is, the transfer price is higher than the price of electricity itself. People live like prisoners in their own homes, they're like mots, they can't make any moves, once a month there's an excessive electric bill. What are you really doing about this situation now, Minister, and how do you make life and everyday life easier for these elderly people, but also young families, that someone should be fair when you light a lamp or put on the oven, let alone a sauna?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u66	Madam President! I understand very well the indignation of older people. Yes, it is well known that when you leave the room, the lights immediately turn off and the outside lights are not turned on to save electricity. Unfortunately, this electric billing has changed in a certain way. Maybe it's a little easier to compare, say, for example, to order an Internet lane: you have a certain amount of speed and stuff there, and you have that fixed fee for it, you used it during the month or not. A little bit the same is now on electricity bills, which means you have that possibility for electricity, but so much of it comes in principle from the fixed part that is the possibility for electricity, and then it becomes the billing separately for its use. Of course, this is something that happens especially in a situation where there is, for example, a second home or something like that, it is said, a house in the possession of the heirs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u67	Mr President! The debate on electricity transmission prices is important and we now need to find cost-effective solutions, those that benefit consumers, including through legislation. But just as important is that we have enough electricity to move. Finland is very vulnerable to energy self-sufficiency on a western European scale. The security of supply aspect of energy production has been highlighted during the interest rate crisis. The winter has not been cancelled, but it is coming with 100% certainty. As far as electricity is concerned, we have always been dependent on imported electricity during the consumption peaks. This will be the case next January, even though it seems to be a far-reaching problem in the heat of June. I would like to ask the minister in question: what are the terms of the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u68	Madam President! Everyone knows that Olkiluoto 3 has been waiting for some time. The pressure tests have been carried out, and since then they have started to do the repairs or patches that it requires, and STUK is of course the operator who then determines when this will be used. It is one of the key elements that will take place. Unfortunately, we still have import energy. As far as the next solutions for individual companies, such as Fortum, are concerned, I have no information on what comes from there. What I have noted positively is that the construction of our renewable energy will increase significantly. I believe that renewable energy and climate issues in general are among the factors that are currently the biggest drivers of investment in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u69	Madam President! The electricity transmission price throughout the country is excessively high, but it is particularly bad in those regions where the distribution company operates in sparsely populated areas, rural areas, and there is generally the lowest level of operational security. The differences may be as high as 80%, which means that the rural population often pays so much higher a transfer price, which also includes tax. Is the government's model, which it intends to bring to Parliament, to equalise this one, so that these excesses can be cut off and then equalise equality between men and women? This is a factor, particularly in rural areas, which is causing people to become increasingly crowded and a policy of concentration, which I would expect to be curbed by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u70	Madam President! With a government proposal, by law, it is quite difficult to set transfer prices regionally. I would say, in fact, that in sparsely populated areas quite a few energy companies are owned by the municipal authorities, so that they too have quite a significant role to play. But I doubt that it will be defined by law, we are starting to try even constitutional questions. I do not know exactly what it is, but I suspect that there could be a law on different transfer prices per region.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u71	The last supplementary question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u72	Mr President! Indeed, as the debate has shown, there is a need for a natural monopoly to be publicly owned. But I would also like to remind you that public-owned network companies have also raised prices, and so it is a matter of law, it is a question of control, and this is a matter in the hands of the government and also of this Parliament. Having listened to this debate, I do not see the contradictions to which the Prime Minister referred. I do not understand what the contradiction would be in addressing these transfer prices. Isn't there a broad consensus here? Prime Minister, should that not be the reason why we should now bring this to Parliament? The record of your government programme on transfer prices does not apply to the one core problem, namely these high levels of monopoly revenue, and that is precisely where the motion of the Assembly is missing. Our proposal is addressed in a way that is also compatible with EU law, and it is precisely this feasible, well-prepared model that has now been made available to the government. Of course, we agree on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u73	Mr President! Due to the interest period, Parliament has moved to special arrangements, and therefore not all Members of Parliament are present in the Chamber. That is why the Council of Presidents has taken the line that the Council of Ministers would not bring to Parliament proposals which do not involve this management of the corona crisis, which provoke debate and debate, perhaps even those contradictions. If the Council of Presidents changes its line, the government will certainly be prepared to bring the government's legislative proposals out of the world outside the corona crisis. So of course we want to promote those records of the government programme and those objectives of the government programme, and we are absolutely prepared to do this — if Parliament so wishes, then the government will get the proposals brought here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u74	Now we move on with the question and answer principle for the rest of the time. — Mr Filatov, first of all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u75	Mr President! Of course, this spring we have been thinking about the corona and the economy, as the Prime Minister well described here. However, I would like to raise the issue of social cohesion and equality between people, because I believe that in the long term these may be even bigger challenges than the economy. In the United States, the death of a young black man killed by the police has raised a strong popular movement against racism, and that is right. In Finland, the survey of the Ombudsman for Equality and many other studies indicate that we have a wide range of racism and it sits deep down. Even children are shouted at on the streets and insulted — even to children. Then we should ask why this is so. How can we intervene? We must not discriminate against children. We all have responsibility for equality, and it is all the greater the more influential we are. That is why I would ask the government: what is the government going to do so that we can work together to promote equality? And I asked the Justice Department if we had any reforms going on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u76	Mr President! A very important question from Mr Filatov. Racism in all its forms must be condemned. There is no room for racism in this country or anywhere else. The government takes this very seriously. We have seen what movement has been taking place around the world, and we have already been aware of this situation when the government programme was written, and we have started to move so that we are now also adopting an action programme to combat racism and discrimination. That action plan will be brought here to Parliament next year. The work has now started and this will be made more widely known. But we all have a role to play when we talk about racism and anti-Semitism. All anger must be weeded out. That's why every one of us who sees a man, a child,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u77	There is another issue here on the same subject. — Mr Forsgrén.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u78	Madam President! Finland has a place to look in the mirror. As Mrs Filatov pointed out very well, the day before yesterday a report published by the Ombudsman for Equality confirmed the message of previous studies: the majority of people with African background have experienced discrimination in Finland because of their skin colour and, as was mentioned earlier, even children are subjected to gross shouting. Breeders experience discrimination and insecurity from childhood in different institutions, schools, working life and public spaces. Unfortunately, I myself have witnessed ethnic profiling, and let us be honest: racism has also occurred in this Chamber, not to mention the language used by some representatives in the social media. We often react with condemnation to individual acts of racism and violence. However, we do not sufficiently address the attitudes and structures that make blacks and browns not have the same opportunities as others. Madam President! Anti-racism and anti-discrimination work must be carried out in all areas of society. We must ensure that the money from any ministry does not allow racist or otherwise discriminatory action and output.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u79	Mr President! As Minister of Education, I take very seriously the issues raised in this report by the Ombudsman for Equality, but similar results have also come from other studies carried out in Finland. I found it particularly sad to read in this report too that many people spoke of racism and discrimination already experienced in early childhood education or during the first years of basic education. It is clear, as the Minister for Justice has said here, that no child should have to face such a situation, and as a society, we also have a duty to safeguard the right of every child to a safe learning environment. We have a record in the Government Programme that compulsory equality and equality plans will be extended to early childhood education. It is now in the process of drafting legislation, and I believe that we should step up our efforts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u80	There is one more question for this same theme. — — — — Congressman Semi.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u81	Madam President! One of Finland’s most important laws is respect for equality. In the presence of the party president, the fundamental Finnish think tank, whose government is composed of members of the Party’s parliament, the European Parliament and the Vice-President of Parliament, published a book containing, among other things, glaring hatred of women and references to racial doctrine. Among other things, the work minimizes and justifies the sexual violence committed by Finnish men. The work is exceptionally glaring, and according to the author, the party blessed the work and publication. The publication of the work, Suomen Peru, was granted EUR 120000 in support of social research for this year. How does the government view the use of common tax resources in the form of anti-human propaganda, which attacks women's rights and self-determination in particular?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u82	Madam President! OKM has been through the publication of the Finnish Foundation. A study on this publication has been started and we will see if there is any conflict with the state aid decisions. There is a general grant for political think tanks, and one of the obligations for the recipient is to promote equality and equality. It appears that the publication does not meet these criteria. It is a matter of preparation for office and, of course, as a minister, I will not interfere in that preparation of office. However, as far as my own political values are concerned, I have said that the grips I have read are really cruel and extremely worrying and far removed from my personal image. Nelson Mandela has said that no one is born to hate another person because of skin color, background or religion. You learn to hate — you can also learn from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u83	Then the next question, Mr Bergqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u84	Irade the Talman! Skärgårdshavet har ett alldeles speciellt milövärde, och allt fler finländare vill njuta av det rauta, nu speciellt under sommånaderna. Skärgårdshavet är ett förhållandevis grunt hav och därför är det extra änsligt för övergödning och utsläpp. I regeringsprogrammet har vi bra skrivelser om hur vi ska skydda Östersjön, och exempelvis genom gigsbehandling kan vi på ett effecttivt sätt minska phosphorbelastningen i våra vattendrag.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u85	Tack för en bra fråga. Vi måste göra mycket mer för ett rent Östersjön och ett rent Skärgårdshav.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u86	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 12/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 June 2020. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u87	I will make a motion in accordance with Amendment No 1 from the People's Republic of Finland. And there's a reason for that, isn't there, this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u88	No, no, no. It's just shows.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u89	Madam President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u90	Mr President! I will make a motion in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u91	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u92	Madam President! I will make a motion in accordance with Amendment No 1 from the People's Republic of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u93	Madam President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u94	First, we will vote against Mr Vallin's proposal and then against the successful report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u95	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. In accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Council of Presidents, which is responsible for making proposals for the arrangement of sittings between parliamentary groups in the Chamber, proposes that Parliament should decide that representatives should sit in the Chamber by parliamentary groups so that, from the right hand of the President, the order of the groups is as follows: the Parliament Group of the Finns, the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party Ano Turtiainen, the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, the Christian Democratic Parliament Group, the Swedish Parliament Group, the Parliamentary Group of the Centre's Parliamentary Group, the Business Now Parliamentary Group, the Green Parliamentary Group, the Social Democratic Parliament and the Parliamentary Group of the Left, each group within the limits laid down by the Council of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u96	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Transport and Communications must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u97	Mr President! A new chapter would be temporarily added to the Act on communicable diseases, which would allow the development and introduction of an information system to improve the effectiveness of the break-up of coronavirus transmission chains. The information system would consist of a mobile application and a background system. Finland’s ‘test, track, isolate’ strategy can be supported by an information protectionrespective mobile application that would be voluntary and free of charge for the population. The application would enable individuals themselves to participate in the management of covid-19 and to prevent the spread of the virus and to protect their own health and the health of loved ones. The app would also help people who are not familiar with the confirmed infection or remember meeting them to be informed of their potential exposure. The user of the application could pass on the information he received from the application about his possible exposure to healthcare and quickly obtain information on how he or she should act. In addition, he could monitor his symptoms and by his own actions prevent the spread of the infection. However, the user of the application would not be informed of the person with confirmed infection or of the time when any exposure has taken place in his or her direction. No location information would be used in the application either. A mobile application for the use of the population would support the functioning of health care and the cutting-off of corona virus transmission chains. The information system could speed up access to exposed persons and direct symptomatic individuals to tests and treatment. It would also be possible to share reliable information, i.e. health advice and operating instructions. In its efficient functioning, the information system would be part of a broader set of monitoring and tracing of coronavirus exposure. However, the proposed information system alone is not enough to address the needs of tracing and cutting off the supply chains. Moreover, it would not replace the current tracking work carried out in the health care unit to contact the exposed. However, it would make it possible to obtain more comprehensive information on potential exposure. The application is intended to serve as an additional tool to enable the removal of restrictions and to prepare for a possible second wave. The purpose of the application, the related powers and the processing of personal data would be laid down in a chapter to be added to the Act on communicable diseases. The provision of a mobile technology information system is proposed for THL. The Social Insurance Institution would maintain a background system related to the information system. Information security of the information system will be evaluated by the Cyber Safety Centre of the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency. By assigning tasks to trusted authorities, confidence in the functioning of the information system and information security would be ensured. Mr President! The Government proposes that the Act should enter into force on 31 August 2020. The law should enter into force in such a way that the information system could be used to break the covid-19 transmission chains. However, the entry into force must take into account the technical development of the system, which is not ready immediately. The law would be fixed-term and would be in force until 31 March 2021. Timeliness is in line with the EU's common principles, and Finland is also committed to these principles. It is estimated that the information system will be necessary to prepare for the development of an epidemic, possibly even more serious in the autumn and winter. At least it's important to prepare for this. It is, of course, difficult at this stage to predict the development and the end of the Covid-19 epidemic. However, according to the proposal, the information system would only be in place for as long as it is necessary to break these transmission chains.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u98	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. This proposal therefore proposes to provide for an information system to improve the effectiveness of the transmission chains of corona virus caused by the covid-19 epidemic in order to reach those who may have been exposed to the corona virus. It is a good thing that we are doing all we can to track down the people who carry the corona virus, and it was great, Minister, that you also raised the possibility of another corona wave in this speech. I have tabled a written question on this subject today, in which I am just asking how Finland is preparing for the second wave, because there have already been different positions, such as that the worst would be over and the second wave would not be coming. It is good that we are aware that we are dealing with the virus and that it is a very dangerous guy and is very easily transmitted. But surely there is also a lot of challenge and refinement in this mobile app, but there are also problems. The factors affecting the added benefit of this proposed information system are certainly the number of people who introduce this mobile app, i.e. the coverage of the population, and once again look at, for example, the elderly and those who do not necessarily have these fine mobile devices in use and do not control their use, so how does it work — i.e. how actively people work, whether there is a bluetooth connection there, whether people are motivated to use the app in the long term, but also to trust, because I believe that such applications can also create mistrust, and people think how we are now being watched and what is happening in this world. Madam President! I mean, this app's price is pretty huge, isn't it? If I have understood correctly, EUR 6 million, and I would like to ask whether the monitoring and reporting and monitoring of this preparatory work will be careful so that we know that the application will certainly be good and comprehensive. If I have understood correctly, the application is already in use in Great Britain, for example, and there have been issues of data protection. It would be desirable that we in Finland should not have such a problem. We must do everything we can to stop the corona, but of course the traditional way, to test, is very important, and at the lowest threshold, the person must get to the test and then to the treatment. Of course, now that borders open and people travel, some go to Estonia and come back, it would also be desirable to have clear instructions from the Ministry, for example with regard to tourism in Estonia. Person coming from Estonia: 14 days in quarantine or not? This has become a lot of questions from employers, among other things, about how this affects employees. Of course, an employer cannot give paid leave. — — — — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u99	Madam President! Now that I am speaking for the first time in your capacity as President, I would also like to congratulate you warmly on your election. That is where we heard the excellent speeches made by Mr Kiuru and Mr Juvose. I'll try not to repeat the thoughts that have occurred in them. In this context, I would like to say that this is the kind of issue we are now dealing with, not years ago, decades ago, you could have imagined. This feels like science fiction. But this is, of course, related to the fact that we all now have those mobile devices, and then we will also have the technical capacity to do what is now required in this whole bill in the fight against infectious diseases. After all, the question has largely been that we now have these asymptomatic carriers, and it was one of the events that took place throughout the last three months. There was always new information about this epidemic and then it had to be taken into account. One of the most important new things for me was the idea that there are quite a few asymptomatic carriers who can then, at a certain point in time, infect and spread it. In that sense it is precisely the best way to trace it: that is, when we find someone who is infected, and then we find those with whom he has been in contact, so that we can then, by testing them, catch those who are asymptomatic carriers in the best possible way, and then prevent them from still infecting them. It will be quite interesting to see how this technique develops here. I do not have the courage to go with any such figures, but now that in the last few days there have been such new infections every day, 20 to 25, which have been discovered in the current way, and if we assume that for a certain period of two weeks this disease can be transmitted, then we would have about three hundred, four hundred people on the basis of this information, that is, in all of Finland, who at the moment could infect other people. But because they have been found and then they are isolated or under quarantine conditions, they supposedly do not move very much, and in that sense we now have a very peaceful situation. This is where Mr Juvonen referred to this second wave. I myself have said that the second wave is not the kind that comes, so to speak, but we humans, by its conduct, cause whether it comes or not. In that sense, caution is still needed, even though these levels of infection have been low in recent days.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u100	Mr President! This government proposal contains a very fine diagram on page 9, where we can see how this tracking of the exposed is done in practice. And just as Mrs Juvonen was wondering here, so there are actually two of these dilems where we have to weigh a little: on the one hand, it is really important that this is voluntary, but on the other hand, how this coverage can be ensured, i.e. this type of tracking system, if not used by very many people, will not prove effective. And, of course, it is important that when we have to consider whether there will be another wave or not, we are prepared to do so. It is also important from a data protection point of view that this does not come to the person concerned with this location or personal data, which is linked to the system. But when the minister is here, I thought that maybe you could ask at the same time that if you reach Finland from abroad and someone would like to download this to yourself, is it possible? Is there any limitations on that? So what happens if the person who may have been exposed here has already gone somewhere else? Are these persons also being traced to other countries? And is there some other possible uses of this type of system; if you think that this epidemic will be over at some point, can you think of this as something else?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u101	Madam President! To the very good speech by Mrs Lindén, I would like to make a few comments. It is precisely so that no new wave is coming for us, but what is already here in our midst is going to take off again, and we must all remember that we are still careful. Even though restaurants and terraces are opened up and people are being released for the summer, we still remember the small rules that we have learned very well. And yes, all Finns must be highly commended for having all of us so obediently and conscientiously committed to dealing with this corona crisis, and in particular the help that people have given to each other, neighbors and those living in the same ponds, it has been really great to note. Many older friends have been in contact and told that it has seemed great to have so much help without asking. So this has brought us together infinitely. While we have done a digital leap with remote work, this mobile application is now some kind of mobile leap. But this government proposal has also taken account of the feedback from the opinion, and here, too, the commentators have identified various uncertainties which made it difficult to assess the impact of the information system or its functioning, and they wanted in particular to clarify the roles of the various actors in the information system. So this is the role-sharing of actors that was raised here. I would like to ask you, Minister: who is now perhaps the author and producer of this application? How does it move forward? Madam President! We always talk about money, and we have to live on very precise euro budgets here in Parliament. In many cases these information systems and the various new trends in information technology are the major financial gaps and it is therefore important that we are very careful and that we monitor that this application, which is now under way, also responds to the demand we need. This is certainly one way, but, as I have already mentioned, perhaps older people may not find this, and there is still a need for other forms of guidance and advice on finding and access to social and health care for those who carry the corona virus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u102	Secretary Kiuru, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u103	Thank you, President, for the opportunity to respond to a few points of view. I think that this reflection on the big picture, which was very fine in all the speeches that were made, is precisely the big steak of the day. It is already clear that of course this system will have significant costs. At the same time, however, even strong restrictive measures, on which this corona virus epidemic has been managed, have a cost and, of course, these costs are also high, not only on the economic side, but also on the social and human side. Now the intention is to dismantle these restrictions and also to prepare for that possible next wave. As long as there is no vaccine and, in reality, Finland does not seek herd protection under any circumstances, as has been decided, we are in a position to keep our citizens safe, and in this respect we also need various tools. The EU and many other countries have been pioneers in the fact that these digital opportunities could also be used as a tool, and in this respect this application has now been prepared. That is the dilemma of putting everything on voluntary basis, and the answer is that yes. This must be voluntary, because when you look at the government proposal which has been very carefully considered on pages 12 and 13 of the data protection regulations and the regulatory margin, it has to be said that the regulatory margin we have has now been used here. On the other hand, it can then lead to whether there will be enough demand for this tool to be good. In this we should also be able to succeed: to tell people that this is what is needed to track down these infections. But this cannot under any circumstances be the only way, and in that respect this is one part of the whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u104	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u105	Madam President! The development of the Covid-19 vaccine is actively carried out both internationally and in Finland. The development of the vaccine requires a high level of research and its resources. Normally, the process takes several years, and it is also assumed that it will last at least one year, even though every effort is made to speed up its development. At the same time, covid-19-related drug-related research will be carried out and, in the context of covid-19-treatment, predictive algorithms and pharmaceutical technology for e.g. evaluation of the efficacy of treatment will be studied. In addition to international vaccine development cooperation, resources are needed to strengthen domestic corona vaccine development, the level of vaccine research and national competence in order to maintain Finland’s participation in international competition and at its best ensure the availability of the vaccine also for domestic use. The aim is for Finland to carry out national, high-quality vaccine research and development against subsequent waves of the virus. A coronavirus vaccine working on at least two different principles is already being developed in Finland. Studies for the safety, immune protection and efficacy of the new coronavirus vaccine should be carried out whether a vaccine of domestic origin is used or developed in other parts of the world. Research is financed through public and private funding. Since this is a new virus for which the population does not have immunity, a vaccine is needed to stop the pandemic. It is important that vaccines are defined as health goods of general interest and their availability is ensured throughout the world. This requires extensive cooperation, in which Finland should be involved. The International Vaccine Institute was established in 1997 at the initiative of the United Nations Development Programme as an international organisation for the promotion of vaccine research and development. IVI cooperates internationally in the field of vaccine research, product development and capacity building. The Institute is currently in the process of developing a vaccine that protects against covid-19 disease. Finland has previously exchanged information and collaborated with IVI through international health security programmes, but as a member Finland has better opportunities to influence long-term and strategic vaccine research and development. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u106	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes that Parliament approve the agreement on the establishment of the International Vaccine Institute. Madam President! I always read a statement from these government statements because it gives us some idea of what the commentators are thinking about, and that is extremely important information for us. The feedback supported Finland's accession, and the feedback also stated that the effects of pandemics extend not only to the health of the population but also to economic activities, logistics and mobility as well as the functioning of the service system, and therefore Finland's participation in international research, development and innovation cooperation on vaccines was considered necessary. This vaccine institute’s policies and strategy were also considered to be well aligned with the principles and strategies of Finland’s national fight against communicable diseases, and the long-term experience of the vaccine institute in the field of vaccine research and development was also emphasised. Madam President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health commented on the budgetary frameworks, and it was good that the Finns supported and presented a proposal to investigate the initiation of Finnish vaccine production in Finland. We have also had our own vaccine production and it has been abolished 17 years ago, and now, especially in this corona crisis, we have even been desperate for how to move forward and where to find the vaccine. We have a huge amount of good expertise in Finland, there are researchers and internationally respected people doing important research in vaccines as well as in various diseases and cancer research. I'd like to ask you, Minister, How do you feel about this role as a vaccine producer in Finland and whether vaccine production could start in Finland? Will you make such a statement and give us an answer in Parliament? This Finnish vaccine production has been of interest to us across party boundaries, and of course it would give us, Finland, visibility on this important issue in the world as well. Even though we are a small country, our own health care, disease prevention is of great importance to us, and it would be good if we were on that front too. Our own production of vaccines would be a very strong and powerful measure for us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u107	Madam President! Once again, there is not much to add to the excellent presentation of the matter and to the good speech here. The point is that Finland intends to join this IVI, the International Vaccination Centre, and that is a good thing. That is the point. However, I myself wanted to take the floor in order to give some background to this issue, and that would now be as follows: So now, of course, we have had this corona virus as a reminder that infectious diseases have by no means disappeared from developed countries either. Traditionally, we have thought that they are the scourge of largely underdeveloped countries. Internationally it is said that there is a communicable disease, “infectious diseases” and then there is a non-communicable disease, that is, “non-communicable diseases”, which largely refer to the diseases we then suffer from, cardiovascular diseases, cancer and so on in these countries of high standard of living. But, as the covid-19 epidemic has shown, the developed countries are also very much affected by this latest pandemic. But it must be remembered that in the world, however, we still have these familiar previous infectious diseases to a large extent. There I suddenly glanced at the fact that, in 2000, for example, 500,000 more children died from measles — well, in 2014 it had reached a fifth, or 100,000, but that is also a huge number. In Finland, measles vaccine came into use as part of our vaccination programme in 1982. I remember that conversation in society at the time, those complications in Finland before vaccination were quite diverse, and it was well founded that this vaccine was then in use, and that virtually removed this from us. I had a quick look at our very comprehensive vaccination programme, and now that I am no longer as close to the grassroots level as I have ever been to work, I would like to say here that a child under 1 year of age receives a vaccine nine different times in Finland. Well, there are vaccines in it, for example, a four - and - five - vaccine, which are used to vaccinate against a number of diseases. And certain vaccines come in series to be given first at 2 months of age, then 3 months of age and 5 months of age. Then after the first year until 6 years there are four different times. Then there's the girls' papillomavirus vaccine. Then we adults have influenza vaccines and tetanus vaccines. We certainly have the most comprehensive vaccination programme in Finland. It is one of the guarantees of good public health in Finland. So get in on this, just like the show is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u108	Madam President! When I saw this presentation, I was actually most surprised that we have not been involved in such an international vaccine institute. After examining the document, I noticed that individual researchers were involved, but that Finland was not a state. In fact, you might ask the Minister why this has been the case. Have we been somewhat self-sufficient in this matter or thought that we do not need to be involved in this type of international cooperation organisation, that we are, as Mr Lindén said, in these specific diseases that are being vaccinated, as if we do not want to be involved in this, at the level that we do not want to be involved in? Indeed, as the honourable Member has said here, it is good for Finland to re-introduce and ensure this own vaccine production in such situations. Another question to the Minister: now that we are going to join this international vaccine institute, is there perhaps now a better chance of getting involved, for example, in these new corona vaccines, hopefully soon to come? I noticed here that an official of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health had said today that this availability of the vaccine would be about six months away. I would have liked to know a little more about this, how it really is. As Mr Lindén indeed said, in Finland we have a comprehensive vaccination programme overall. For example, these three vaccines: now, in connection with this corona, it has even been considered whether the fact that the nation is so well vaccinated can possibly have some meaning that this corona is not necessarily so bad here. Well, these are the ones to which only scientists can give answers on the basis of research, that it can make any difference. But, indeed, measles, rubella, mumps are such diseases that entered the vaccination program in the late '70s. I am still of the generation that all of these have become ill and that is how the vaccine protection has been acquired. Surely in this Chamber there are those of us who are still the generation who have not received immunity by vaccinating but who have had to suffer from it. But on these few issues I would like to see some clarifications from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u109	Mr President! The government has shown commendable activity in joining these international vaccine institutes: this proposal is now on the table, and then Gavi has also been on the table, and funding has also been directed to these and then the World Health Organisation (WHO). A few weeks ago I asked Mr Pekonen a written question — thank you for his reply. It concerned the rapid and comprehensive availability of the vaccine for such a pandemic situation, whether it could be aimed at international contractual arrangements to derogate from these normal exclusive and industrial intellectual property rights and, at the same time, at the simultaneous application of the pandemic to all countries in the world, the use and manufacture of the vaccine, the distribution of the vaccine as quickly as possible. This would actually require such a new type of contract network, which could of course be run by the WHO, and in particular by the EU, in various fora. I missed the question, this as if a further step — these are quite the right steps that have now been taken, but this kind of a little more ambitious attempt to make new kinds of arrangements internationally was exhausted there. Has the ministry considered what steps could be taken to bring such a situation closer to the people of the world, as it were?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u110	Madam President! In this Chamber, we are unusually unanimous that this is a very good proposal, and thank you to the Minister for this presentation. I must say that I, too, had some thoughts similar to those of my fellow Member, that how we have not been involved in this before. This has been a little incomprehensible; it would seem that Finland has already been involved in this before, because I feel that as such a highly skilled country we have a great deal to offer to this international vaccine research and product development. I am particularly pleased — when we know that these viruses and pandemics are global — that we are doing precisely this kind of international cooperation. At the same time, we will certainly also have the opportunity to cooperate with Finnish universities and biotech companies, which means that there are also such export conditions here, as Mrs Juvonen asked if it is possible to start with this kind of domestic vaccine preparation. But this product development and research must certainly be international. What is important is that these provisions ensure the availability of vaccines in all countries, that it does not happen that a large, unnamed giant country, although the United States, then buys itself such an exclusive licence for vaccines when they are urgently needed throughout the world. It is also in the interests of us Finns that all developing countries have the same opportunities to vaccinate citizens and that they are also able to protect themselves against all these infectious diseases. I think it is very important that we work with other countries on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u111	Secretary Bakonen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u112	Madam President! Thank you for your good contributions and comments. I personally think that getting a safe vaccine as a means of this fight against the corona virus is a common goal for all of us, but at the same time I think it is remarkable to remember that when we talk about the vaccine and want to get the vaccine as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible for all citizens, it is very important to take into account that the vaccine is safe and appropriate. However, these vaccines expose a huge number of people who are basically healthy, and the risks of side effects should also be as low as possible in relation to the severity of the disease that the vaccines are intended to prevent, and that is why this research and development is extremely important. Mr Juvonen asked about his own domestic production. Launching domestic vaccine production is the responsibility of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, but for my part I can say that Fimea, who is under the authority of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, can, if necessary, instruct operators in order to set up new vaccine production and also prioritise these covid-19-related licence and change applications and also in a very short time to assess these new licence applications, if that is the case. To Mrs Essayah, I would say that we have not really been involved in this vaccine institute, and I myself was a little surprised and, of course, I was glad that we could join it now. Although we have been there as small partners for individual actors, yet when we are involved as a member, it is also possible to be better involved in these studies and thus also in the international debate, which is extremely important when we are a small country and we act here as a small country, then we really will be able to make a difference there. President! Let me say quickly to Mr Koskinen that we are having a close debate in various international arenas, not only by Minister Kiuru, but also by me, on these cooperation activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u113	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Audit Committee, to which the other specialised committees shall deliver an opinion by 16 October 2020 at the latest. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u114	Madam President! Now that we have these shorter speeches, here I am thinking about how to take advantage of such a big issue as the Government's Annual Report for 2019. I thought it was really pointless to go over the figures that are life - lived. But there is always such an interesting section in this Board's annual report, and it is this section 3, which then describes these measures that have been taken as a result of Parliament's statements and statements. So, in a way, about the things that Parliament has put in traffic with these statements and towards the future, we will then have to give our own separate annex, which then goes through what has happened. There are just a few of them here, which I thought I would remind you of even the representatives of the government parties, who are here in the Chamber, that, for example, Parliament has spoken about the development of the electoral system. And now here, election director Arto Jääskeläinen from the Ministry of Justice has stated that the Ministry of Justice's intention is to set up a parliamentary working group within the meaning of Prime Minister Marin's Government's Government Programme to examine the development needs of the electoral law, party law and electoral funding law and, if necessary, other legislation on political activities. And here I am sure — and I can say that I think — for example, this proposal for a region of social welfare may be something which, in some way, is also implicating the work of this working party, provided that some kind of transfer of territorial borders is made there. Well, another one I could say is that the Christian Democrats have a long history are these celiac allowances, because this celiac allowance was created in the past by the fact that our representative Marja-Leena Kemppainen was driving this through Parliament strongly and the celiac allowance came into effect, but the last government abolished this celiac allowance. However, the Parliament stated that the report on the reimbursement of the coeliac disease allowance will be carried out promptly and the costs of the reimbursement of the coeliac disease allowance will be taken into account in the next budgetary plan. This is a rather lengthy answer to how the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has raised this issue, and unfortunately this answer still contains the argument that celiac disease is like any diet that a person chooses to follow, and compares it with whether or not there is now a desire to give support to different diets. This is an unfortunate misunderstanding. The only possible treatment for coeliac disease is the proper diet, which means that it is a medicine. And in that sense I hope that colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in particular will see to it that this right view of this issue is raised and that this matter is being taken in a good direction. Then I'm going to compliment the government on this. Here Parliament has required that this current system of income support be clarified, and that when Kela was transferred to this provision of income support, what problems has it caused? This is what the government has now taken up, and this is a good thing. In that sense, you can add that things have been put on the road.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u115	Madam President! As Mr Essayah has said here, there are many things that could be raised from the government's annual report, but I am now raising one thing that has hit my eyes. In this chapter, the ‘Safe State of Justice Finland’reports on the issue At the time, the Iraqi man, who was not, according to the Finnish Immigration Service, entitled to international protection, had voluntarily returned to Iraq and, as it was believed, was killed. As a result, the Finnish Immigration Service decided to review some 500 asylum decisions taken by the Agency in order to identify and deal with any similar cases as required by the European Court of Human Rights ruling. Even at the time, we wondered how an unverified death certificate could serve as evidence for the EIT, even though the Finnish Immigration Service had also dealt with this issue. As we know, Krp is looking into it because the man didn't die, so it's supposed to be a scam with a lot of people involved. The Annual Report was published at the end of May a few weeks ago. I wonder why it is not even indicatively possible to add or correct the matter, or even to remove the whole point if there is nothing to say about it when the investigation is under way. In the case of the Finnish rule of law — under which heading this is — or the Finnish Immigration Service, has done nothing wrong or wrong, on the contrary. If something should be criticized at this point, it could then be the EIT, which makes discriminatory decisions on the basis of a clear lack of authenticity. This annual report talks about many points, starting with the foreword, including the corona, so the answer to this amazement cannot be that this only deals with last year's issues. In some ways, however, I would like the government in its own annual report to want to show the rule of law and its own actions in the best possible light and not to look guilty on a matter where we have not made a mistake.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u116	Mr President! This Government's Annual Report for 2019 does not deal in any way with the impact of the corona epidemic on society, so in that sense there can be no real debate on the economic situation on the basis of this report, but, on the other hand, the importance of the green economy and sustainable development discussed in the Annual Report, for example, has not been reduced at all; rather, it has been the opposite: the recovery of the corona epidemic requires investment in the green transition, among other things. We are pioneers in cleantech and the bioeconomy, and now we need to make better use of this in the global market. As Vice-President of the Audit Committee, I have now looked at this report, and the main idea I have is, when I think about this moment and compare it with this report, that we really need a reformative resilience, that is, a renewed resilience to change and that famous Finnish spirit. It is now important to see not only the challenges and the problems, but also the opportunities, so that, at the latest, from the 2021 annual report, we can see that the recovery from the interest rate has also started financially. Mr President! The Audit Committee, as its own project, has started to examine the impact assessment of legislative work. We have obtained the result of a preliminary study, and this impact assessment of ours is a great deal to be developed on the basis of this study. This report also talks about quality, that is, the quality of the assessment of the effectiveness objectives, and I would like to finish by referring to what has been recorded here on the last pages. It says here: ‘The success of reporting and evaluation of the implementation of the impact objectives The setting of targets in the state budget should be developed in such a way as to improve the possibilities for assessing implementation and could be based more on indicators. It would also be important to plan, in advance, a sufficiently comprehensive and unanimous way of drawing up information on the basis of the evaluation and the process of preparing and concluding the assessment of the achievement of the objectives.’ In fact, the preliminary report on the impact assessment of the legislation, which I have just mentioned, raised similar problems, and this report also states: ‘The assessment of environmental changes and risks still varies in content between ministries. The treatment of risks should be carried in a more analytical direction, the risks should be examined more clearly in relation to the Government Programme and the Ministry’s objectives and the risk assessment should be integrated into the organisation’s activities and the setting of targets.” So from two reports now, as it were, ideas and ideas for development in the same direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u117	Madam President! People always ask what they do other than legislate, and I always tell them that, among other things, we try to get things moving. Appendix 3 to the Board of Directors' Annual Report is a very good book. It is exactly the same as the Ombudsman's report, which I have always hoped for it to fall into the municipal court and the people to read about what is happening in Finland. This annex, which describes the statements made by the parliamentarians and the measures they have led to, is a very good booklet. From there you can see that the statements that we are actually making in the committees can lead to action, and that is a very important issue. I would like to raise three statements here, which have been of particular importance to the people of Finland, who have been promoted by the Finnish People's Party in committee, in connection with the implementation of the old-age service law and the achievement of staffing. We have a statement here, and now we also have a bill here. It is also very important that the legislation on the elderly is followed up, that we also have a statement on it, and that implementation is indeed being followed up. We also discussed the euthanasia citizens' initiative here some years ago, and we had a strong hospice theme attached to it, and we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health also had a statement that hospice care is being developed in Finland and that legislative changes are being considered. I very much hope that the government will bring the so-called hospice law to our attention. Then we have the correction of the inadequacies of the insurance system, in which we have worked very closely with Mr Ronkainen in particular, and until the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has also made a statement, we have managed to move things forward. And, of course, this insurance doctor system is now also being promoted and improved by the government, so it is a great thing that confidence is being improved. Instead, I would like to highlight the restructuring of social and health services from this government report. There was a debate during Question Time that we do not always get the information we would like. Sometimes it seems that the government is like a chamber of secrets from which we can dig with a crochet hook for the right information, especially in connection with the war. Last season, Sipilä's government resigned on 8 March 2019 and the war fell. It was to be expected that the mess was going down, but we were not just told, we were being treated with the dirt, even last July we were sitting there doing it, even though we all knew that the war was going down, it was going nowhere. Well, then we had a debate and agreed, as it were, gentlemen, that in the future we would prepare for the war parliamentaryly, and now, however, the government has brought autonomously this proposal for social protection, which is going to take place soon, next week, for consultation, and we do not know at all what is going on there. Chairman! I will take the floor again so that I can continue. [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola :Sessed. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u120	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u121	Mr President! There is a lot of talk in this government paper about being bigger than we are, even though, as I have just heard in many of the debates in the Chamber, this is what happened in the previous debate — that when we are so small, our influence is very minimal. It's a strange thing that then our influence is supposed to be horribly big when you ask the question of climate, Africa or something similar to that of ideology. I do not intend to understand why we cannot really recognise the position we are in, for example, with the EU. And then the government report on last year is made so that something big and great has been done in some way. I think we should be a country the size of us and put an end to the pursuit of things where we have little or no resources to influence the overall picture. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u122	Mr President! To begin with, I think it was a pleasure to read that. Of course, there are many challenges and, as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said, there was talk of this level of lawmaking and quality, that is the kind of thing we come across each time, and no matter who or any party in the government, it always feels that there is a place for blackmail, that there is still a lot to be done. I personally felt that this opinion of the evaluation council — which is also reflected in our report — should be taken on board that we should work more together between ministries, and this is something that is easy to agree with. So this sort of siloing does not of course improve the level of lawmaking, on the contrary it differentiates. It is good that more attention will be paid to it in the future and in the future, because that is something we can influence ourselves. There are a lot of things that we may not be able to influence so much ourselves, to which the previous representative referred. But there are a lot of those that we can influence, and that is what I think we should focus on here. What Mrs Essayah has raised, this compensation for celiac disease, is now being examined. In my opinion, it is with me the kind of thing that I would like to see it returned, because it is true that a gluten-free diet is still the only way for a coeliac person to treat his own illness. As we all know, it is an extremely expensive diet, and especially if it is repeated in such a way that there are more people in the family who are on that gluten-free diet, i.e. it is not a choice, but it is a necessity, it will touch the purse very hard. These things will hopefully be taken forward. But here's a set of entries, things that look to the future. The strategy for children has begun. The Committee will then be meeting next week when it has to be postponed for certain reasons this week. The social and social reforms are progressing. In my opinion, these are the kind of entities and reforms that need to go beyond government and opposition boundaries, the famous combination of coal and cooperation, because these are the things that move forward. They will not be completed in this parliamentary term, but will always continue and continue, and it is therefore extremely important that they are prepared for parliamentary cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u123	Now, Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u124	Mr President! The Sipilä government resigned on 8 March 2019, and we were left with an unfinished social welfare reform, which until then was made like Isaac's church, although it was expected that the reform would not go any further. We should learn from these events. Mr President! Just as Mr Hänninen said: we should work across administrative boundaries and work together on common coal and blow and work together. However, I am perplexed by the fact that why the government did not involve the opposition in the preparation of this social reform now, so that we would be involved and know exactly what this war contains. After all, the last period ended when we spoke very firmly together that the next social war would be done together in parliamentary terms. But this did not happen. This raises the question of whether or not there is going to be a secret war now, whether we have learned nothing from this last period. Yes, these things should be done openly and together, so that then there will be no similar conflicts at the end of the last period. Well, now the coming war is the biggest stumbling block, freedom of choice, away from it, and now it is considered that how are the government parties to each other going through this: is it, then, that you all sign it? Mr President! I am just reading the news from the Helsingin Sanomat that the Constitutional Committee is calling for changes to the human resources of elderly people. So there are now two problems. There is a gap between entry into force and funding. So now we are able to read in the public eye what we have raised here on numerous occasions, that funding for this staffing must be more precise and secure, and now it seems that this is not the case. It will also have an impact on the whole process of social reform. Here, too, we should be extremely open, and I would like to send my greetings to the government to open this up to us and tell us what is at stake so that we know what is going to happen on the staff line there. The field is waiting for it, so the workers, the elderly, the relatives of the elderly, because the situation has been very bad in Finland for years. This issue has been taken forward together, and we also have a statement on it together. But really, as a learner of this book, I would recommend that we do not do things the way that we did last season, for example, with regard to wars, but be open. This secrecy was mentioned in Question Time just now when the Finnish position on emergency funding was discussed. As long as the Finn is a paying agent or a paying woman, it is good that we know openly what is happening in Finland, and that is why we are doing it together, openly, parliamentaryly. That's what I'm hoping for. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u125	President! At the end of this very short time, I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place here. There have been very important points of view here, and I am sure that there are now three members of the Audit Committee present here, and we will look carefully at this broad package, and these important points of view have also taken place in this debate. As has been pointed out in this debate, one of the key objectives of this annual report is to learn from things through monitoring. Mistakes always happen. There can be no legislation or system that sometimes does not make mistakes, but it is an opportunity for learning. It's silly if you don't learn from those mistakes. We need transparency to learn from mistakes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u128	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 8/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u129	Mr President! As chairman of the Tax Section, I will present our report. This is a question of relending VAT paid at the beginning of the year for a fixed period. In addition, it is proposed that the simplified payment arrangement, the deferral of payment, should be revised so as not to allow tax refunds to be used for the payment of the tax they are subject to. And for some of this, we will return to the payment arrangement we discussed earlier, which is when we decided that its interest rate would be reduced from seven to four, and this government proposal will continue to count it to three. First of all, in this report, we recall that, on this previous occasion, we made a statement calling for this 4% level to be reviewed further, and we are of course pleased that the government has contributed to this and further reduced the interest rate. However, here we are making a few changes, Mr President, to this as a committee, and so this interest rate will be reduced to 2.5 of this government proposal. We are in favour of the motion, but, as I said, we are making some changes. One concerns the temporal determination of the interest rate. In other words, the problem with this proposal was that the tax subject to this payment scheme was proposed to calculate interest on late payment according to the statutory due date of the tax, irrespective of when the tax administration pays the tax paid to it to the taxpayer’s account. Of course, it would be appropriate for interest to be paid only when this money is so-called available. We therefore made an improvement on this, or we could not make a direct improvement, because the problem arose, surprise, surprise, systems, i.e. the tax administration's systems did not give in to this change. If they had been made, this could have come into force only at the turn of the year, and it is probably clear that this should not be done, but rather that it should be done now. Thus, we corrected this for the taxable person so that we decided to calculate this tax on the 2.5 mentioned, thereby making it possible to compensate for this problem. The second problem was the so-called application for a refund. In other words, according to the proposal, the taxable person may apply that any refund of the tax should not be offset as payment of a debt for which a payment arrangement has been made. And we have to get this separately. The problem was that, according to the proposal, the taxable person should have applied for this the day before the law came into force, and it must also be clear that it is not very reasonable to require that something be applied for even before the law comes into force, and so we in the section also corrected this, so we took 30 days to do so. So now you need to apply for this appeal within 30 days of the entry into force of the law. The report also deals with the level of interest. We note that some expert opinions have considered it important that interest rates remain even lower or even zero, but the majority of the committee believes that this level is justified. This is justified, inter alia, by the fact that this is, as it were, unsecured lending and is intended for companies with payment difficulties and in relation to the price at which these companies would obtain a loan from the market, this interest rate is quite favourable. We also stress, however, that tax revenue is needed here and now, so that we can pay the current costs of the interest rate crisis, and so perhaps it is pointless to encourage payment arrangements that are not justified, but it is precisely necessary to help those companies which would otherwise face excessive payment difficulties or bankruptcy. So, in a sense, this tax revenue in itself is also our concern, and that is why this small interest rate is necessary. We are also going to see how much the cost of this change we have made would be. They would be more or less in the order of magnitude that the calculation of this VAT rate to 2.5 would result in tax losses of some 65 million which, in the following year, would mainly be returned to the State, interest income would be reduced by 2 million, and this change in the interest rate of the payment arrangements to 2.5 would also amount to a loss of 60 million, some of which would also be to the municipalities, but they would also be returned to the treasury of the State and the municipalities. So, President, this is one way of supporting businesses beyond difficult times, and that is why the committee considers this to be justified. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u130	Thank you for presenting the report, President. Then we'll continue the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u131	Mr President! Indeed, there is one objection to this report, because we Christian Democrats and the Coalition Party do not consider the interest relief proposed by the government to be sufficient flexibility, and that is why we have tabled an objection to it. This credited payment scheme for companies will therefore now be extended to VAT due and paid in early 2020. However, as Mr Viitanen, who has presented his opinion on behalf of the committee, said, this committee's hearing was, first of all, indeed duplicating this level of interest and, secondly, that, at the moment, when this Tax Administration's information system does not give in to the fact that these interest dates can be calculated correctly, then at least the Christian Democrats and the Coalition Party believe that it is unreasonable to pay interest for days in which, in fact, there is no money in the company's possession. On these two grounds, namely that this exceptional crisis situation requires action to support the liquidity of companies with these fiscal flexibilitys and that these arrangements must not entail excessive costs for companies, and because in many other countries it has been concluded that this interest rate has been reduced to zero — i.e. to the reference rate which is currently zero — and then, on the other hand, on the grounds that it is unreasonable to pay interest for days when there is no money, we are really suggesting that this interest rate of delay should then be calculated at the reference rate. It must be borne in mind that, in fact, in the Netherlands, in Ireland, in Switzerland, in Greece, in particular, Cyprus has done exactly the same thing in this exceptional situation, with this fall in interest to zero, and it is now considered that it is extremely important to help these companies across this valley of death. And in that sense, when you think about the amounts we are putting in to support companies, it is well-founded that, in this situation, the State is not going to apply for these few millions of interest rates, but, indeed, in this situation they are also supporting business. I personally think that the zero interest rate is not the reason why companies are somehow tempted not to pay back taxes at all or not to pay them at all. Yes, the law says that they must be carried out, and someone has said that nothing is so certain but the payment and death of taxes — in that sense, taxes in Finland have always been likened to things that are actually forced to be done. Mr President! Tomorrow, in the event of a vote, we will be able to see how many of Parliament wants to support this more favourable view for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u132	Mr President! We must thank the opposition for listening to us and for including this in the programme. Of course, the only thing that annoys me is that this would have been an extremely good drug right at the start, that is, the two months that were about twisted with this would have been a good job for a lot of entrepreneurs, especially mentally. Of course, what remains to be thought of here at the time when this was being twisted was also the fact that, of course, VAT-based companies, which are subject to reverse VAT, are not able to make use of this work and, of course, no one in the committee had taken into account the way in which they would then be able to do so at that point. So now there would be a little more ball for the government to think about how these companies could be helped with a corresponding rapid effect and easy ways. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u133	Chairman! Indeed, I would also like to thank the section for its good cooperation in this matter, even though this objection by the Assembly and the Christian Democrats to the level of interest was rejected. Once again, as last time, I forgot to mention at the end that one objection was included, but was dealt with in a good spirit of association. I would like to point out here that I myself thought it was important that, last time in committee, when we wanted to make a statement in relation to this system of payments, perhaps to contribute to a lower rate of interest, we were then listened to, and now this rate has actually fallen. In this respect, we are reasonably in agreement with the other front, plus also with the Finns on the fact that it would be good to have some kind of interest rate in order not to go to zero. All in all, however, we are certainly united in the whole Chamber on the need to do everything in our power to keep companies standing to help and prevent the waves of bankruptcy, and that is why this measure is one of the many different things the government has done — since it is well known that there have been these direct aid schemes, there are now going to be this general support and many other means, but this is then a tax measure that can be used to meet these difficult situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u134	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 9/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Chairman of the Committee, represented by Mr Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u135	Mr President! I present the committee's report. The proposal therefore proposes to amend the law on police administration. The aim is to clarify the system of command and control of the police administration and of operational police activities with regard to the reporting obligation of the police administration and the appointment authority of the local police chief and the related other provisions of civil service law. The Government's proposal proposes to supplement and clarify the reporting obligation by requiring the Director-General of the Police and the Head of the Protection Police to inform the Minister for the Interior and the Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Ministry of Interior of matters of social importance which are necessary for the performance of the ministry's duties. In addition, the reporting obligation of the Chief Police Officer extends to the Head of the Police Department of the Ministry of the Interior and the Head of the Protection Police to the Head of the National Security Unit of the Ministry of the Interior. The Administrative Committee considers regulation on improving the flow of police information to be important. It is intended to contribute to ensuring that each competent authority has an up-to-date picture of the situation. Regulation will clarify and strengthen the guidance and management system for the flow of information in the police administration, while at the same time enhancing the efficiency of the authorities. The government's proposal proposes that the police chief of the local police department be appointed by the police department. It is also intended to amend other regulations at the level of the regulation so that one body of civil servants has jurisdiction: the Police Board, which acts as the Police Department. Under the law currently in force, the Head of the Police Department is appointed by the Ministry of the Interior after consulting the Chief Police Officer. The committee considers that the appointment authority should be the body responsible for the administration of its staff, as proposed by the government. On the basis of the report it has received, the committee considers that the concentration of civil servants' powers on one body will facilitate both the process and the exercise of supervisory and supervisory powers. The committee considers it appropriate to inform the Minister for the Interior as part of the normal interaction before taking a decision on the appointment. As a steering and supervising body for operational police activities and as a police department’s superiors’ office, the Police Board is better equipped than the Ministry of the Interior to assess the implementation of civil servants’ responsibilities also from the point of view of law enforcement. Mr President! On the basis of the facts and the report received from the Board of Directors, the Administrative Committee considers that the proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the adoption of the draft law contained in the government's proposal by means of an unchanged opinion on the report. A clearly defined and organised division of roles, clear control and guidance relations and better information flow and information will create the conditions for the implementation of an increasingly effective police administration. The report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u136	Mr President! This proposal, which has now become unanimous in committee, has caused us to have a lot of debate, even outside the committee, on where we are now moving. After 2014, the Chief of Police was appointed by the Government, of course after hearing the Chief of Police, and now, in a sense, this democratic choice is being transferred to the Civil Service, and at the same time this disciplinary authority is being transferred to the Police Government, and it is, in a way, a quicker response to what has happened, what needs to be done. This may reduce the power and operating conditions of the police chiefs if this leadership is not successful. That is why the Committee on Administrative Affairs asked that this issue be examined and reported on a regular basis in order to know what is going on. And when I think about this situation, after all, it is a question of management and management. The work of a police officer is a lot of human management, measures in different situations and others, and it requires good understanding and learning of staff, working with different people. I hope that this will now go to a good finish and that the police chiefs will have effective and adequate powers of action there. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u137	Mr President! This was indeed a unanimous report, just as Mr Semi said before and also the chairman of the committee, Mr Purra, before him. However, as Mr Semi has just said, there has been an in-depth debate on this, or at least a long debate, and I think that I myself did little of it, in quotation marks. That is because, in my opinion, there were no problems with this information flow issue, but this question of the appointment of police chiefs of regional police is a very interesting question. Emeritus Professor of Administrative Law Mr Mäenpää made a good statement on this issue, stating that, legally, we can act under our Constitution with option A, which is the current option, or with option B, which is now being changed, but this is a matter of political consideration. That is why the ideas — or values, perhaps even more broadly — that are behind these different options are something that should be discussed. In the course of the debate, I personally linked this to the fact that operational fluency in a fairly independent police organisation is a good thing when it is paired with clear performance guidance, which also involves the will of Parliament, the will of the Government, the views of the Ministry of the Interior and so on. At the moment, this performance guidance, not just in this administrative sector, but in many others, seems to me to be creating a lot of critical debate. I myself used as an example certain productivity targets and other performance figures in the state budget to approach these issues. So, basically, this is a pretty big change. Personally, I do not think that in any way the local police should be politicised, that is, it is not a question of this, but in my speech in committee I listed a rather long list of various public administration organisations, which generally follow the so-called one-over principle of appointment, i.e. that the supervisor does not choose his immediate subordinates but his subordinates, and this model usually reduces this kind of closure within the organization and increases transparency there. Of course, this can be done within the police administration itself. The challenge here seemed to be the fact that the Government is a different agency and the Police Government is a different agency, and then, in the meantime, it was not possible to create a system of rapporteurs in which the Chief Police Officer was the rapporteur to the Government for these appointments. As has been said, this was unanimously adopted, but I think that this debate was important and fundamental.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-11-ps-92.u138	Mr President! Just as Mr Lindén said at the end of this debate, this report has been adopted unanimously in committee, but we went through this very carefully, carefully and in discussions, and both Mr Semi and Mr Lindén were very well involved, and this is, of course, a familiar way for the Committee on Administrative Affairs, as the President knows. On this issue of appointment, we had quite a lot of discussion about the appointment of a local police chief, and here Mr Lindén very much opened up this thinking, which I share myself. In the light of these events of previous years, when the decision-makers in Parliament saw perfectly justified the delegation of this mandate to the Government, I felt that it was very important and essential that we now had a careful debate on this issue, analyse the situation and, as Mrs Semi mentioned, note that we want to follow up on the changes brought about by this change and how this situation is now beginning to evolve. But, as Mr Lindén said here, Professor Mäenpää also made a worthy contribution to the evaluation of this government proposal. In his own opinion, he stated well: ‘The current appointment authority supports the parliamentary control and control of the police administration, which is relevant to the use of public authority belonging to the local police. “ I also think that this debate, which we had in committee and which I myself consider important, is that we also have a certain role in this exercise of public authority and an opportunity to assess the exercise of power in relation to the activities of the authorities and the powers of appointment. Finland is a small country, and that is why it is important that we have these appointments in an open, transparent process and that we also have a public opinion on them if necessary.
