ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 21/2020 vp. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 24 June 2020. In the debate, Wille Rydman Päivi Räsänen has suggested that Parliament does not consent to the prosecution of Juha Mäenpää for the crime referred to in the request for a warrant.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u2	I note that, in accordance with Article 30(2) of the Constitution, a Member of Parliament may not be prosecuted for the opinions he has expressed in Parliament unless Parliament has agreed to it by a decision which has been supported by at least five sixths of the votes cast. I would also like to point out that, in accordance with Article 32 of the Constitution, the representative is unable to participate in the decision-making process in matters concerning him personally. The proposal must be put to the vote: ‘and’, Mr WilleRydman’s proposal does not ‘.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to calm down and to take your place in the Chamber. Moreover, there is a certain amount of noise from outside the Chamber here in the Chamber. I hope that we will now calm down during the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u4	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 13/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 25 June 2020. The draft amending budget will now be examined in detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u5	Proposal 6 is deleted; it was neither presented nor supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u6	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u7	Mr President! There is a proposal for a so-called "manufacture" or "manufacturer" law in the proceedings. The Finns supported the suggestion that the carer size would have been 0.7 faster than in the government’s proposal. The government proposes that it should be 0.5 from 1.10 this year. In our opinion, the dimensioning should have been higher from the outset. We have made statements in committee, and I would like to present our statements here: The first is: ‘The Commission requires the Government to monitor the implementation of the measures and The second statement: ‘The Commission requires the Government to set up and, where necessary, take measures The following statement: ‘The Commission requires the government to become involved in measures to improve andensure preventive care in the The fifth statement: ‘The Commission requires that measures be taken by the government to ensurethat the national resources for the treatment of people arerestrained,in The following statement: ‘The Board of Directors requires that measures be taken to monitor the implementation The following statement: ‘The Commission requires that the Government prepares a programme of measures to improve working conditions in the And the following statement: ‘The Commission requires that the Government prepares a programme for the monitoring of services andensures the necessary resources for the In addition, we have a statement on the financing of the old age law, and I will also make that statement. And then the last statement, which was made this morning, relating to this 22 plus student-related posts: ‘The Commission requires the Government to monitor the implementation of the staffisation of the list of professional titles in section 3a of the draft law, to clarify how the recruitment of new employees to direct customer work is divided between different professional titles and, where appropriate, to take action in the event that, for example, professionals trained in medical care and medical care have not been paid an appropriate amount’.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u8	Mr President! First of all, I support the statements made by Mrs Juvose. Secondly, just a few words about this type of personnel measurement in general. This has been ten years in the debate, and ten years have been tried through, and now it is going through. Not as we would have hoped, but in any case we are going in the right direction. I remember trying to influence this law for the first time in 2011, when Mr Guzenina was Minister of Basic Services. I wrote a long letter and said that it should definitely be 0.8. I did not receive an answer to that letter, nor did I receive many other letters that I have tried to promote this issue, and at times I feel that it is incredible that this is something that has been made so difficult. There are many different areas of care for the elderly in Finland, and this is just one of them. The fact that we are now bludgeoning through this law does not mean that we can stop and leave the rest of the care of the elderly unexamined. [First Vice-President AnttiRinne : Mr Juuso!—Please remain silent in the Chamber. We're having a debate here about dimensionalizations. — Please. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u11	Mr President! I support the proposals made by Mrs Juvose. It's very important to get the nurse's attention to the finish line. Not all of this went as the Finns would have liked. We would have liked that dimension to have taken effect from the beginning of next year. This dimension is now fully valid from the beginning of 2023. Our statements concern very important issues: what we put forward there in the area of informal care, neglect and home care, and that resource and control, hospice care. They need investment and money. We should all remember that every human is getting older. It's a very important fact to remember.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u12	Mr President! It is a great thing that the carer’s size has now moved forward, but there is still no funding and no carers. The government always says that if we started cutting now, we'd starve. But what would we do if, for example, we abolished the tax exemption for large associations of general interest and abolished this year's increase in development aid? These would bring some EUR 700 million to the Treasury. That would be the money for a nurseship and a lot of other things that are important to Finns. But these are the value choices.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u13	Mr President! For many parliamentary years, the Christian Democrats have strongly supported this change in carership, and in that sense I welcome this day with joy that we will be able to deal with it. Of course, there is still a concern here that the size of the carer is not coming to this 0.7 target until 2023 on April Fool's Day and that the elderly need their care here and now. So those people who are in 24-hour care may not be there to see that day, when this nurseship is finally in place. But, of course, it will be a pleasure to look forward to that, too, from the point of view of future care. Then I am concerned, above all, about this funding. It is still easy to make a point that the carer’s size should be set at 0.7, but it would have to be both those nurses and the money needed to hire them. However, I consider it unrealistic that the government's means of trying to tear this money apart, as it were, for example, this enhancement of the digitalisation and service of municipalities, which would in any case have to be done. The scrapping of the Kela compensation system also means that it will be more difficult to reach the public's medical services, if you consider, for example, the gynecologist services, which are in practice in the private sector, in particular for the low-income people, these Kela reimbursements have been very important. And then... If this carer’s size is really raised to 0.7, we need over 4,000 nurses, a pair of hands, more to care for the elderly, and at the same time home care should be intensified and improved. The government has not put forward a realistic plan on how to implement the total number of staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u14	Mr President! Now we have this dimensional presentation here, and that is a great thing. I think it is a good thing that it is not in any plans, but that it is at our disposal today. The timetable for how the government is going to do this has also been announced. That's a good thing, too. The way this is done doesn't hang in the air. And as has been said here in many speeches, it would have been desirable to have a tighter timetable, i.e. a faster entry into force on this law. Of course, it is understandable that if there is a shortage of 4,000 nurses, this law cannot come into force next year — that is quite clear — and perhaps not the next. In that sense, although I am sitting in the opposition, I understand this logic. But then, at the same time, I wondered that if there were the same energy to deal with this matter as with other matters, then perhaps we could have done the additional financial measures and perhaps left some of the things that we discussed in the supplementary budget and which are not part of the corona are not even close to the need for corona funding, then perhaps the money could have been channelled here. This tells me a little about the fact that this implementation and funding of the nursing system are not very high priorities for the government, but there are other things that are much higher. This is a little worrying in the sense that the government was aware of the will of all parties to deal with this matter. Each party had this issue in its parliamentary election programme before the last election. In other words, the government would have received strong support from the opposition if it had brought very radical measures to deal with this issue. For some reason the government did not take advantage of this support. This is an issue that has been central to the debate here for many parliamentary years. President! I still welcome the fact that this proposal is here and that there is some kind of frame work, but I would like the government to be able to re-examine this timetable. Since 20 billion dollars have been found to handle this interest, I have no doubt that money has been found in this matter. That training problem could also have been considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u15	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen said that there was money found to treat the corona, but there seems to be no money available to treat the elderly. Minister Kiuru said in Parliament that the manning is an hour's work and one sentence of the law is enough. Mr President! It is regrettable that Minister Kiuru is not here in Parliament when it comes to the situation of the elderly, the care of the elderly and the recruitment of new carers. I hope that the Parliamentary Bureau will take serious action against this indifference of ministers, that they will not be here in Parliament when their important issues are dealt with. Since this money for nursing is not in the frame, I wonder how on earth that money again ran out at the exact moment when it should be decided on the issues of the elderly and the elderly. Then, when you grow up, the problem is that you're talking about 4,400 nurses. Well, we currently have about 8 per cent of people over 75 in Finland who are in institutional care, and that actually means that in 2025 the need for care will be over 11,000 if we cannot reduce the number of people who are in institutional care and strengthen home care. In Sweden, 5% are institutionalized and 95% are able to live in their own home. That is why we in the assembly are concerned that the government is now making a model for transferring carers from home care, from home services to institutional care. This number of older people in institutions is likely to increase. Mr President! We are pleased at the meeting that the government is finally hiring more nurses to care for the elderly. Our elderly people deserve better treatment than they are currently receiving. But we are concerned that this government is weakening home care and this government sees virtually no need for development in family care. These two pieces should be taken side by side here: to strengthen family care for older people, but also for a large group of other people, and home care, and to strengthen people’s ability to stay longer in their own homes. Mr President! It is sad that Minister Kiuru is not dealing with this issue here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u16	Mr President! The Coalition Party wants all elderly people who need care to have it. Now, with this nurse - size presentation, we hope that the situation will improve by 40% of the elderly — those living in 24 - day care. We still have 60% of elderly people in need of care without a mandatory change, which this bill will not help. The Coalition Party has been concerned about funding, staff and the situation of home care in particular, and we have raised an objection with nine statements here: Declaration 1: ‘The Board of Directors requires that a comprehensive reform of the Old Service Act be carried out in order to ensure equality The reform must ensure that changes to a single service form do not undermine the quality or availability of services elsewhere. The proposal for the reform of the old-age service law must be brought to Parliament so that it can be dealt with during the current parliamentary term.” Declaration 2: ‘The Council of State shall, without delay, require the Council of State to adopt the measures necessary to Declaration 3: ‘The Board of State shall, without delay, require the Board of State to take Declaration 4: ‘The Commission calls for a comprehensive evaluation of the size of the staff involved overthe 24-hour period of Declaration 5: ‘The Board of Directors shall, without delay, put forward solutions to ensure adequate staffing which are compatible with Declaration 6: ‘The Commission requires that the government should, without delay, propose howto organise additional resources for staff in the Declaration 7: ‘The Commission requires that the financing of the management measure is considered as part of the Multiannual Framework Declaration 8: ‘The Commission requires that the human rights situation should be properly accessible to the Declaration 9: ‘The Commission calls for a legislative initiative on financial sources to be launched without delay. According to the budgetary plan, the legislation on sources of finance should be fully in force from the beginning of 2023 in order to enable the necessary measures to finance the staffing effort to be made.’
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u17	Mr President! I support the statements made by Mrs Laiho. We consider it important to increase the number of carers. However, it has become apparent during the examination of this draft law that there is no basis for funding this proposal, that there are not enough carers and that home care is at risk. From these points of view, we have drafted these statements with the idea that through them we can secure this whole package of services for the elderly. I wonder why the government parties could not support the motions for statements made by the Coalition Party, which are necessary to ensure good care for the elderly as a whole. If we consider what we are proposing in these statements, then we propose that the whole reform of the Act on Elderly Services be brought to the attention of Parliament, not just one part but the whole, and that the government bring to the House the necessary measures to ensure that home care is not compromised and that adequate support and services for family and family carers are ensured. We also stated in these statements that we should seek solutions to these problems, which have been raised in this debate and discussion, namely that there are not enough nurses available and that there are shortcomings in funding so that they can be ensured in the future. We also asked for an overall assessment of this to be carried out. I see that all these proposals are those that we could, as a matter of principle, support together as a whole, and I hope that the government parties will also consider it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u18	Mr President! It is very good and valuable that, at the end of the spring session, we are now in this Chamber discussing care for the elderly and improving it. Taking care of the elderly is our common honor, and it is valuable that we are now going through it from different angles. This government proposal concerns the nursing dimension in institutions where elderly people are often in very poor condition, such as memory disorders, and they are precisely the kind of people who are unable to help themselves or make noise about the mismanagement they encounter in their own care. This proposal by the government to register a nurseship in the law, as has already been pointed out in a good speech, is long-awaited and long-awaited. It is quite right that this really does not solve everything, but it is an important step towards a more elderly-friendly Finland. It is very good that, in spite of criticism, particularly from the point of view of the Assembly, this binding 0.7-manufacture is now being recorded in the law and that the matter is proceeding in a step-by-step manner. Now it is not so easy for the government to provide the necessary funding for the implementation of the scale and also to ensure that there are enough carers, and this is taken into account in the report of our Committee on Social Affairs and Health. It is a good thing that, in accordance with the Constitutional Committee, the timetable for the appointment of carers and this system of evaluation of care and funding are being specified. In the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we stress the importance of safeguarding the quality of home care as well as increasing educational places and improving working conditions for medical staff. The government has also promised elsewhere that these will also be given attention outside of this manoeuvring law. We have an important record in the Government Programme on the development of informal care, and that is one of the issues in the Government Programme that we absolutely need to stick to, because when we develop home care and family care, we will at the same time relieve the pressure from that institutional care. One of the main factors involved in the attractiveness of the care sector is the fact that many nurses are exhausted at work and have gone into other jobs, so to speak, and it is excellent that the government is now going to intervene in this and is also going to intervene in this proposal, which will contribute to the attractiveness of the care sector and improving working conditions. Mr President! All in all, this government proposal is:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u19	Mr President! This is where the debate began with great promise for the opposition representatives Juvonen, Juuso, Reijonen, Koponen and also Räsänen. Mr Laukkanen gave very positive feedback on this issue of human resources and management. After that, there may have been more criticism from the point of view of the Assembly, although it was said that it was good that progress was being made on this issue, but should have been made in certain other ways, in their view. Personally, I think this is a very important step and a great thing that we are at this stage in the process. It is true that we face many challenges in the care of the elderly. They are actually quite easy to list: hospice care, informal care, home care and so on has been mentioned here. All of them call for strong development, but my own thinking does not go so far as not to be able to take this decisive step, which we are taking today, that we still have other challenges which then need to be resolved. If we look at the whole of care for the elderly, it is quite true that improved service housing and institutional care do not represent the majority of the elderly, but we have 60% of the public resources spent in enhanced service housing, then we have 15% in institutional care and 25% in home care. This tells us that more resources are definitely needed for home care, but we will solve these issues piece by piece. This is a very ambitious set of objectives, a 30-month period of gradual reform, requiring 4400 additional carers for enhanced service housing and institutional care. I am very pleased that the spring season is ending in such a wonderful way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u20	Mr President! These issues were discussed very much before the last parliamentary elections, and all our competitors, other parties, gave the impression in the elections that this carership is easy and quick to manage in this Parliament. Now we have a government proposal on the table, which means that this much-spoken 0.7-manufacturing exercise will take effect a few weeks before the next parliamentary elections, April Fool's Day in 2023. So much for the ease and speed with which this matter could be dealt with according to the election speeches. Will there then be sufficient funding? Will there then be sufficient staff? The previous speaker, Mr Lindén, who is, of course, a major expert in social and health matters, was very optimistic about the fact that there would then be both funding and staff. This is a very important question, for if the state does not put the full funding it has promised for this reform, then the money will be taken from the municipalities. Municipalities, or perhaps provinces, will have to spend their own resources on this, and we all know how much financial difficulties the municipalities are already in today. Perhaps even a more financial issue is the question of staff adequacy. If 2023 does not have enough staff, then these nurses will in practice be taken from home care where there are more elderly people than in this 24-hour enhanced service housing. And there is a risk of home care being vacuumed by its staff, both the government of the country and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in its report. Therefore, without any delay, the assembly would have seen and, in its statement, still see the need for the other problems and issues to be resolved in the same context as the provision of this nursing allowance in service housing, as well as for the whole to be resolved at the same time. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u21	Mr President! The starting point is that we must have nothing more important than the well-being of our old people, the builders of Finland. Before the election, the Prime Minister's Party promised, promised, promised and promised the pensioners a May Day. Everything's been betrayed. A few years ago, I had a place in my life where I was unemployed. I spent that time helping veterans of our wars. I received the honor of dealing with veterans in Central Ostrobothnia every day, and there I heard many very thrilling stories that still touch my heart warmly — people who built this country and made it possible for you, the good government, to sit here now to deny and stretch the quality of their services to some 23 April Fool's Day. I simply do not understand it. I have to answer this call today to my grandmother, who asks: ‘Mauri,why does Finland reserve3million days to send development aid to the trees,but I have no sympathy? We don’t have enough nurses.” I am surprised that there is not such a strong consensus in this Chamber to deal with such a small matter — our old people and the people who built this country for us deserve all the credit that this hall can ever give to anything — but that we have one thing before their needs. Can each of you walk in front of the mirror, look himself in the eye and say, "Yes, we have done everything we can.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u24	Mr President! Finland resuscitates with work, but forgets to resuscitate care for the elderly: it may give a little artificial respiration, but the heart massage was forgotten. That's what it looks like. We were all talking here about the size of the 0.7 nurse, but it dried up. It's 0.5, and it doesn't matter much. I have been working for 25 years in nursing and I know what are the things that are affected by the number and size of nurses. Mr President! The fact that this carer size is now staggered so that this year 0.5, next year 0.55, next year 0.6 and 0.7 then possibly 1.4.2023. This development is taking place too slowly. This is very difficult to believe. And when you're asked if you never have money, I can tell you that that money has never come to care for the elderly. You've felt it and you've seen it on those night shifts when I've been alone for 14 years on the night shift, and you've had a lot to take care of — that's not really where the money came from. Then where do we find these nurses? Our basic Finns’ proposal was that 0.7 power at a faster pace. Government, you have baked 22 different professional titles for this bill that can work in the nursing work itself. You allow a great many professional titles to work in the immediate care work, i.e. close to the patient, the client, the person, the way he is called in the care of the elderly there. They give out drugs, they give medical help to people, that is, so many professional pictures. We'll find these people to do this job. And trade unions, SuPer and Tehy, have also adopted 22 different professional titles. There's more than just local nurses and nurses. There are carers there, there are housekeepers there, there are domestic assistants there. Everyone is welcome to do that care for the elderly, and with this huge number of professionals we would be able to get it there at 0.7, because all hands are needed. Why didn't you do this when you knew it? You have baked in here the fact that there are a huge number of staff here who are included in the staffing scale. Mr President! In 2007, I was still a nurse and met with the Minister of Finance, among other things, on such a working day at a landing event. At that time there was talk of elderly care, talk of carers ’ pay. Then came the election. Coalition Party, you promised 500 euros to Sari Nurse. Everyone's promised the elderly, the nurses that, and this. There was a corona crisis, not a quarter of a coin for carers, a corona supplement, for example, given in Sweden. It tells us that we actually have zero priorities in Finland when we look at health care, look at health care staff or those customers, i.e. the elderly. And yes
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u25	Mr President! I am well aware that the role of the opposition is to criticise the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u32	Mr President! This is a great day, although, of course, if you are loyal to your opposition role, you try to argue otherwise.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u35	Mr President! The elderly really need treatment that they deserve. They have built this country and without today's senior citizens we would not have a whole independent country in Finland. They really need valuable, high-quality care, and it has been a disgrace in an independent welfare state that we have managed the care of the elderly as badly as we have proved in recent years that the situation has been in many institutions. KD has been, just as Mr Räsänen said earlier, in the course of several years of the government to promote this nurseship. And in that sense, of course, it is a good thing that someone is now being given a binding number in the law and that it is really being separated from immediate treatment and assistance. In that sense, of course, we are happy, but really that 0.5 is not enough in today's enhanced service housing units or in all-year-round institutions. Today we also have such poor people in home care that for those who are there in institutions we really need more pairs of hands and in that sense we really would have liked that dimension to have been much greater than 0.5 at this point. Just as Mr Laukkanen said next to me, this is not the best possible thing that could have been coming into force at the moment. That money has actually been sought and spent on a wide range of things even in this corona period, so in that sense money could have been invested more quickly, more, and even with more than 20 items, it is possible to find more of these pairs of hands there. When we think of all the nurses who have gone out of institutional care over the last few years, as well as out of home care because there has been too much work there and they have not been able to cope with that amount of work with a good conscience, they have gone away. So we have a trained capacity that could have been regained through both pay and better working conditions. But, indeed, this nurseship — enough hands, but also enough hands to take care of home care and the situation of family carers — is the whole that will need to be better cared for in the future. Once the problems of this funding have come to light, that is, where the government is going to scrape up that money, it is not convincing. I'd like to pick up those Kela heels. We have a very female-dominated government, and, for example, if you consider gynecologist services for elderly people when cancer increases with age, today if you are going to undergo a gynaecologist's examination of gynaecologists, it is on the private side. I'm surprised our woman-dominated government isn't.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u36	Mr President! The basic principle of social policy legislation is that, when legislation and standards are created, we must of course convince ourselves that they are feasible. Finland's public finances now have an increasing shortage of resources every year, and it is everywhere. That is why the debate that has been taking place here today, and this approach represents a rather unfortunate aspect of trying to create legislation without making sure that it is possible to do so. Of course, it would be up to the committee to convince itself of this, not only in terms of money but also in terms of staff. From February, I well remember the news about how even though fewer young people are applying for local nursing training every year. These trends are in line with the fact that this is not feasible. These should be introduced honestly in the committee's report, not to mention this general financial situation. The Finance Minister, Mr Vanhanen, said here yesterday that in the course of the decade we need to adjust our public finances by EUR 5 billion. That assessment is probably also at a low level, and it is therefore not enough to write in the report that the committee requires that the resources for home care should not be damaged, but that we should do something about it and consider the means to do so. At least I have had an extremely bitter memory of this debate and it has also collapsed my view of many of the members of the government's parliaments that we want to see such a normal reading in committee, then calling it something of a brake. I will continue to believe that, in the context of this regulation, the possibilities for its implementation must be taken into account. Now that it seems to be the central means of the government parties to be barking at my party, I would say that perhaps we will then be separated from the other parties by the fact that we believe that the public authorities should not make promises that are not feasible. If any of you have any Christian convictions — and I say: There is much wisdom in the Bible for everyone else — even the Bible says in the book of Ecclesiastes: “It is better not to promise than to leave the promiseer unfulfilled. “ Let's remember this. When you look at this whole package, it is not a talk like this that then we get more money and then we put more resources there and here, but now it is just realistic in terms of this overall picture of public finances. And at least the least you could think about — even when Peltokangas asked here who could look in the mirror — think of all of them, even if they were labour market reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u37	Mr President! Today is a very important and important day, and a historic vote will take place in a moment to improve care for the elderly. As Mr Guzenina said a moment ago in his own speech, we are unhelpful on this issue too late in transport. These decisions should have been taken much earlier, years ago, even 10 years ago. However, the decision is now being taken, and for that, of course, the great thanks go to Minister Kiuru and the government for finally making progress on this issue. So we are talking only about part of care for the elderly and staffing of improved service housing and 24-hour institutional care. This change will take place in a staggered and responsible manner so that it will be fully in force in 2023. This is a responsible and proactive step forward. As has been said here, the availability of nurses has long been a problem. Why do we have such a situation in this country that nurses do not stay in the business? Why do they go abroad to work, change the business? There are the root causes that we need to grasp and what we need to resolve. There are a lot of different factors. I'm not going on the list here. The care of the elderly is a whole. Nor can we forget home care, which has been a fear here. Neither can we forget family care. We cannot forget hospice and good care for the rest of our lives for the elderly, but we cannot forget family care, which is also part of the care of the elderly, but a small part. We have many different areas that we need to take care of. There is no doubt that there is a lot of work to be done. This is not going to be an easy exercise. That is not what I am going to say, but if we do not start it now, then the job will not be done. So now we have to roll up the sleeves and really start thinking about the whole thing. We've been talking about value choices. I remember that Marja Jylh, a professor of gerontology, sometimes in a TV interview, found that, in the end, this is a question of value choices, and now this value choice has been made, and usually when we talk about value choices, we also put money where we see that it is necessary. I can only say at this end that, after this decision, it is good for us to take a summer break, and at the same time I wish all colleagues a very good and relaxing summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u38	Mr. Speaker! Mr Viljanen has rightly stated these core elements. I shall return to the background to which Mr Guzenina spoke. I was in the other jobs of the previous period, and at the end of the previous period it seemed pretty certain when this project failed, as well as the social welfare reform, that during the next period, or parliamentary term of 15-19, these big long-term reforms would be carried out, but that was not the case, and now, finally, the fact that the nurseship will be fulfilled is the most pressing criticism of the Coalition Party and the Finns, who were in the previous election period, especially in the early stages of directing the government's activities, and where this reform, its implementation, was also exhausted. After all, these basic municipal services have different strategies to ensure sufficient quality and service performance across the country. There are these most advanced obligations, subjective rights, from which the individual has the power to be sure that they will be fulfilled, and then the state must support the municipalities that such subjective rights will be realised. Well, then there are those in this middle ground, that yes all elderly people have a subjective right to receive proper care, but then when it is seen that it is interpreted in a very different way in self-governing municipalities, then this regulation at the national level is needed, and then, of course, for a long time it was disputed whether this kind of mathematical nurseship is needed or what the way is to ensure the coverage and level of quality. Well, then it has been clearly seen that this is the last and only way to ensure that all treatment units get across enough. It must be borne in mind that a significant proportion of care institutions are already well beyond this dimension, and it is as if it were done within the framework of the implementation of normal state-owned units and the basic tasks of municipalities. Now we have to get everything over that line, and here this model presented by the government and the funding that is being made available to it is enough to secure it, and it is important that it has finally been achieved, and now it would be hoped that together the Parliament can ensure that it will be implemented during this parliamentary term and also these other sectors that have been talked about, home services and so on, at the same time, will be brought to such a good Nordic level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u39	Mr President! We have a heavy sitting behind us when the right-wing opposition was prevented from investigating a possible hate crime in this Chamber. It is historic that the request of the Prosecutor General was denied.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u42	Mr President! This carer size now means the size of 0.5 when it comes into force in October, i.e. practically no change in the current situation, and it does not change anything in practice. In 2022, when it comes to 0.60, more than 60 percent of the care units reach it. Only on the day of the April Fool's Day 2023, when the dimension 0.7 comes into force, is this really relevant. Now, in the draft law, there is also a growing variety of professional titles and the lack of training can be more on duty than in the past, so the monitoring of skills and, in particular, the implementation of medical treatment with sufficient professional skills and quality will play an important role. Of course, when this nurseship comes into force, there is a risk that the threshold for 24 - day care will rise and that fewer and fewer elderly people will be admitted to 24 - day care. And when we know that there are very many sick and infirm elderly people in home care at the moment, it does not at least improve the situation of home care. In fact, I have today submitted a legislative initiative to reduce the waiting period when the decision is made to need social services, which are also covered by 24-hour care — three months in that law at the moment — to one month in which confidence could become felt that when that situation at home actually deteriorates in the situation that it is no longer able to cope with, then the care place will be properly arranged and will not have to wait for long periods, as is unfortunately the case in some parts of Finland at the moment. And the second thing: In Finland, we should have uniform criteria for what are the criteria for receiving care. At the moment, municipalities make up these criteria in a very different way and older people are not in an equal, equal position all over Finland. I have also submitted an initiative for action on this. On this point, I would like to emphasise that good drafting of the law is to consult sufficient experts and to ensure adequate funding and conditions for the implementation of the law also in practice, and in that respect this preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u43	Mr President! To begin with, I support Mrs Juvosen's very good and necessary statements. The hospice is finally coming to fruition, that is a very good thing. Everyone is talking about the fact that the work of nurses is valuable, important. It should also be reflected in the pay. That is still not the case. Although Parliament cannot directly affect wages, we can still influence the funding that will provide enough nurses in the short term. And when there are enough carers, care providers can be influenced to work better and thus to be treated for good care. The situation in home care and informal care remains weak. If it wasn't for family carers, care for the elderly and the disabled in our country would be in chaos. Only a fraction of the family carers receive small compensation for their work. True Finns have often raised these difficulties with family carers: tax relief, the functioning of holidays, the small amount of fees, among other things. At the end of the 1970s I was also in nursing work, or at the time I began nursing at Koskela's nursing home. I worked three shifts, and I have to say that even then there was a shortage of nurses and things have not developed very much to date. Although we have increased prosperity, the situation has not improved substantially. And if we think about this beloved Finland and our elderly people, they have rebuilt, carried their share, worked hard, now they are elderly, what is more important than taking care of them fully and properly? In other words, I can underscore what Mr Peltokangas has said here in his own speech. After all this, however, I wish everyone a good summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u44	Mr President! In addition to the wishes of a good summer, there is a bit of a peculiar tone here in this debate. We all recognize that we are making a historic decision. The long-awaited project is being carried out, yet we hear comments from the opposition, statements that nothing is being done. We make a historic decision, but they say nothing is done. There are also electoral promises, above all the commitments of the government programme, but we hear about the opposition: everything has been betrayed. [RitvaEloa intermediate call] Mr President! When you listen to such speeches, do you get the impression that perhaps the speaker is deceiving you? Is the opposition misleading citizens, listeners and voters with this type of criticism? Some of the opposition, when we take a historic decision, say that more should be done. That is not enough, and even more should be done, despite the fact that we all recognise that it is a significant fact that this carership is now being quantified into the law. Secondly, the essential point here is that we separate care work from other support measures that exist in nursing homes. And, after all, the government, in its programme and its objectives, in its accompanying statements to this bill, has also taken off from the need to invest in home care — quite rightly, it must be invested in — and resources must also be made available for family care. It does not change anything because we know that we have other tasks in this society, including care for the elderly. Now we're making a historic decision. Representative Vartiainen said that there is a tendency for the representatives of the government parties to bark at the coalition. I have the feeling that I have listened to what Mr Guzenina, Mrs Viljanen and Mr Koskinen have said lastly, that no one here has been barking at the majority. We have just stated the facts: this is how it has been. This was an accurate historical description of how this nurseship has been dealt with in this Parliament in several speeches. Well, I guess we can just say the facts. If that seems to you to be a hawk, then there seems to be so much sting in the heart that it has failed in this argument. And yes, we are also supporting the coalition by putting resources into home care, trying to improve that family care, trying to do so. Help us, when the time is right, and do not invent — or something else — such as that the pension reform must be brought to the end in that way and not put these things into practice. After all, we have a life full of things that we can go around.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u45	Mr President! This is now going to the answer round for me too. Very briefly, I would like to say that I have listened carefully to what the opposition has said here, that the Finns of Peru would like to implement this reform more quickly. Well, I'm not going to comment on that. That is a good goal, but I also think that this 30-month phase-out is a good one. On behalf of the Coalition Party, I have heard two different positions: Quite a direct quote from Mr Vartiainen’s statement: ‘This is not feasible’. I mean, what we're doing here. On the other hand, in Mrs Laiho's speech: good, but this lacks home care, informal care, hospice care, and it should have been done at the same time. There is a slight contradiction between these views. I thought I'd play a fair role here, but I'm thinking maybe a little bit of color here: 1.4.23 my son's 41th birthday. His lovely middle child, my grandchild, turns 10 years old, and then this dimension of care for the elderly will come into effect in full. These people I mentioned will not need this law at the time, but I only mentioned this because I find it a little mean to make the date 1.4th now April Fool's Day. It is April Fool’s Day, but it also happens to be the birthday of two of my important loved ones, and I take that day very seriously in general. So it is not as serious a matter as the care of the elderly that should be played in such a way that it is somehow bad that the final entry into force comes on April Fool's Day. To go to more serious things: I am perhaps most humbled here by the criticism that Mr Vartiainen is making, because I know that he takes economic matters seriously. I already replied at the first reading that I see this issue, Mr Vartiainen, so that our entire municipal social and health care system is EUR 19.6 billion. We have 4 billion elderly care, 8 billion special care and 4 billion municipal primary health care, and our health insurance contributions total 2 billion. I actually see that we now need that extra percentage, 95 million we need more money for this in addition to what has already been financed, namely 17 million for next year, 61.5 million for 22 years and then 17 million for that early year from 23 to 1.4. It will cost 178 million, which means that the price tag for the whole year 23 will be 195. All the rest of this is already in the frame, but now that the timetable has changed with this step-up — which was good — and now that funding has to be allocated to everyone, we need to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u46	Mr President! Today is a really great day, as has been revealed in many of these speeches, and I believe that we all agree in this Chamber that it is great that after ten years we finally get a binding mandate for the law. I believe that everyone will agree on that, even if certain details become criticism from the opposition. Perhaps I also understand that, having tried this ten years now, a few opposition parties may also have a little frustration that you have not managed to get this binding nurseship into the law and that it is now. In that regard, attempts are now being made to get a little wrong about these little details by coloring the wrong things and bringing out the wrong image. First of all, as Mrs Guzenina has very well opened it up here, and at least Mrs Kiljunen has done so in her speech, so as soon as the law enters into force on 1.10., the law will enter into force on 1.10., not 1.4.23, as the Assembly says, the law will enter into force on 1.10. on this year’s side — only the medical staff who performs the immediate customer work will then be counted. So it is precisely the biggest problem that we have had at the moment and for which reason we have had dimensional problems, and which, among other things, has brought to the public the really great excesses in the fact that support service workers have been included in the scale, that can be reached immediately on 1 October, and that is a very big and great thing. It will immediately increase the size of the care units that have experienced the greatest problems in recent years. We can answer that right now. The second thing that I think is good policy is that we should give a transitional period, because, as in this Chamber all the time, where you get the nurses, where you get the nurses, it is quite true that it is not simple. It is therefore good that employers should be given a transitional period to recruit those carers and also to allow a transitional period for the shearing of this medical staff. In that sense, the proposal by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to step up was a good one and I support it. But on all sides today is a really great day. Mr President, I am very proud that this government is finally getting this binding nurseship into the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u47	Mr President! Such a famous Greek philosopher Diogenes lived in a barrel, and he always wanted to be it's best debut, the best argumenter, and he had this kind of way, so told that if he was losing the debut, then he could for example come up with some trick, for example, starting to eat a bouquet of flowers. So the audience began to pay attention to the fact that, for God's sake, he's eating a bouquet of flowers, and it was completely forgotten what that debut was all about. Now in this debate I see that a special situation has arisen between some opposition representatives and representatives of the government party, that we are taking the lily stalks, a bit like eating a bouquet of flowers, so as not to take into account the larger picture that is happening here. Today, when we decide on this personnel allocation, that is just one part of the overall reform of the elderly services that is also included in the Government Programme, which is to say more is to come. We should not just look at this now as an overall solution, but this is one part. And the fact that we are gradually moving forward in this particular part is a good thing, but there is also more coming from there — there is concern about home care, the adequacy of informal care services and the adequacy of support for family carers. All of this is recorded in the Government Programme and progress is being made with these. We have only been sitting here for over a year now for this regime, and that is why I am also asking the opposition for patience. There are parties in the opposition, such as the coalition that has been in power for a very long time, and now one of my concerns, Mr President, is that it will not be the case that, if the coalition were to take power during the next term of government, they would be prepared to scrap these reforms. I know that this would not be the case for the Finns, for you this is a matter of heart, but the cynical... This Dionysos, he was a cynic too...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u50	Mr President! And I immediately answer that it was wonderful that at that point the Finns who prevented it from being counted from 0.5 to 0.4, because it would have been a total waste of time. There was a lot of hard work to do that, the small group who saw that there was absolutely no chance of weakening. But, Mr President, last spring it seemed that it was taken away from this matter itself, from this staffing measure. [JouniOvarian Interval] And, of course, as the third-period representative, I must say that this staffing, the old age law, the hospice law, the improvement in patient safety, the improvements in family care have been precisely the things I have come to drive here, and in that sense, of course, this is to be welcomed and a good thing. But here a recommendation is now being put into the law, which was put down. In 2008, the recommendation was as high as 0.8, then counted to 0.5, and now it is 0.5. But if anyone here thinks that 0.5 of them are taking the elderly out, they're dreaming for nothing. No, it's not. The size of 0.5 is not enough for anything extra. We all know that. Everyone knows, and if they don't, we'll have to go there and see. But again, Mr President, when we are talking so much about the separation of direct and indirect work, I would remind you that it can also be done in the way that the person doing its indirect work is working in the middle of the morning — he is a care worker, and he is cleaning there and doing his laundry — and when the evening shift comes after 12 o'clock, he moves on to the immediate work, that is to say, the same person can do indirect and immediate work during the same shift.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u51	Mr President! This spring has been a very tough one, and especially these past few days, but today is in many ways a good one — not least because of some of the votes that we have already made today, but because of this proposal for a carer's statute. After all, on this historic day there is now a number that is binding, not just a recommendation. But I would like to point out here that it is the minimum number in every unit. Every day, every week, we'd have to get to the number of nurses and staff that this patient, the elderly population needs. It is precisely the most important and central thing that every unit should have the number of hands that a number of people really need to take care of. Of course, there is a role for both the regional government authorities and the supervisory authorities, and, on the other hand, since many of us are decision-makers on the municipal side, there too can be an impact on our elderly people actually getting the high-quality, valuable care they deserve. But here I would also like to raise a representative. The very good statements made earlier by the skinny, which I warmly support, and I hope they will be taken forward. But then, which is why I wanted to ask you to speak again, I would like the government to continue to reflect on how to raise the value of the care and nursing training and the appreciation of this profession. In time, I myself have worked as a nurse in a wide range of services and since then, after graduating from my profession, I have worked as a team with nurses, with a wide range of healthcare professionals, and we, who work in institutions, hospitals and different departments, know that it is teamwork. It is a team effort to a great extent, and nurses and also assistant staff are doing very important work. Everyone is needed to do so in its entirety. And when previously the nursing work was highly valued, why is the situation different now? I wish the government would intervene in this too. One thing, of course, is the working conditions that have become far too harsh. There is far too much responsibility, far too little time. And also the hire. This depends partly on how much resources and also euros are going to be mobilised from this house, but there should also be an improvement in this matter of remuneration. We are leaving professional carers in neighbouring countries and staying there, and also during this corona period, the corona supplement has been exhausted. I would like the government to think about how education and working conditions in the care sector would become more people and, in the kingdom too, the appreciation of this profession would increase. With these words I also wish everyone a very good summer, and a little like my profession for me such work dementia for the summer, that we forget about work and enjoy a wonderful summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u52	Thank you. There are still six speeches. Let's see how this afternoon goes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u53	Mr President! Many here have admired that this is the big day, but the biggest day will then be if this really ever happens. It has been said here that it is a ‘detail’ and ‘lolluguese’,Mr Guzenina would say,and did Mr Berg talk about thedetails that have been taken up by the opposition. Well, a very important detail is that this is feasible, whether it is feasible and also if it happens to be. And we will see it then in 23 C.E. and beyond that at what price it is feasible, from where it is gone, or is it some kind of violent indebtedness. That is what this is all about, and it is certainly not a small detail. Resources are always scarce. When we dealt with this in committee, it was difficult to listen with a serious face to these ideas about these sources of funding. They're coming from some kind of digitalization or something that's not specified. I was even told that this is not out of anything, because there are some of these new sources of digitalisation from which money comes. But these very basic economics say that everything is out of place. We do not know where it is yet, but it can be from other municipal activities, child welfare, or it can only be seen as even more violent debt. I'm just trying to get you to see this big picture. Due to this change in the dependency ratio, the state of Finnish public finances has been deteriorating for the last 13 years, or 11 years, in fact, all the time, and you here are only talking about how this has been done and then there will be more resources. But this is not the way the political system in Finland actually works, and that is why the wise advice that now seems to become a mere criticism that promises only things that can be kept are quite important. Dionysos, mentioned here by Mr Guzenina, was indeed a known god of drunkenness,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u55	Mr President! When this is the last session of the spring season, I would like to wish you all a happy summer. Following the words of former representative Tommy Tabermann, it is good to look afterwards at this stinging corona spring: I'll be sitting in Parliament's sauna all by myself and watching. Now I understand more about our painful journey: it is only after the summer break that decisions will stand out. We never hoped for a corona. We were hoping for legislative proposals and voting tickets in the wind. Creep, eyebrows! There's still no support for the government program in me. Mr President! A sunny summer for you and the Finnish people! Enjoy the warmth and each other, and above all remember to rest and load the batteries, because there is a lot of work to do in these challenging times. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u56	Thank you. — There have now been many of these requests for this summer holiday, but there are still six speeches here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u57	Mr President! Just a moment ago, I was listening to Mr Peltokanka, who has now left. It was a very emotional speech, and it made me feel a little guilty to myself that, in time, there has been enough of this in front of us elderly people on a personal level. That left me to reflect on this issue and on all that is really being said about care for the elderly, but what is really going on with the elderly in this country? It is known that we have so many elderly people, elderly people who experience loneliness, and there are elderly people who are not even visited by their relatives. I think this is one of those things where I'm sure every Finn would be able to think about whether or not to do something about it. Let me give you an example. Before coming to Parliament, I worked as director of the substance abuse rehabilitation department. There we have such a unit, which mainly has young mixed users as customers, friends with criminal background and very harsh lives. For about ten years now, these eight guys have been visiting a service house in Pori, Ruskalinna, every three weeks on Tuesdays, to walk the elderly, to read to the elderly, to bake with them, to play bingo and to do such things, which unfortunately the staff may not have had the opportunity to do. I do not want to advertise in any way now that I am somehow more happy than others on this issue, but we can do things. On many occasions we can think about how we ourselves might be able to play our part in our workplaces, in our hobby groups and others, and to do things, to visit the elderly and to ask if we can help because these are really important things. That's all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u58	Mr President! It is indeed good that in nursing homes the situation is likely to improve with the entry into force of this 0.7 level of care, but it is important that the legislation on care for the elderly be reviewed in its entirety and brought to Parliament during this term of government. It was raised here that it is being imported, but it is certainly not certain to me whether it is being imported or not, because I have asked Minister Kiuru this week, and that answer was very unclear, and I also asked about the ministry yesterday, and I did not get an answer there either, so it would be a good thing if we could now be sure that the elderly service was going to bring it to Parliament or not. And one of our statements is specifically about the old-age service law, that it would be imported during this reign, that if there is now a clear view that it is being imported, then you would not think there would be any obstacle now to support this statement by us. Similarly, these statements, which have now been raised and made here by the Assembly, specifically concern ensuring that this law is implemented and safeguarded. Of course we want the law that comes into force, then there will be plenty of money and there will be plenty of nurses for it, and these statements by us are precisely what they are trying to secure. These are not extras in themselves, but all these statements of ours specifically guarantee the implementation of this law. Well, then Mrs Viljanen mentioned here that relatives do not visit, and it is very difficult that they do not visit, or very little can be visited by relatives. Of course, it would be desirable if family members were to visit their loved ones more, and that is why it is now surprising that there should still be a ban on visits to nursing homes, that there should be restrictions on visits by those who visit their loved ones and wish to visit them. And especially now that there is this kind of heat also, so it is now unreasonable to have to go out only in the outdoors, and if there is a nursing home for example there is no room inside where you could meet, then you can then ban the appointment. Now that there is a very varied practice in various parts of Finland and it is always up to the local leadership to decide, I would like and have expressed a wish for the Ministry and Kiuru that the Ministry could not now clearly instruct this and allow the family to meet their loved ones in nursing homes. However, they live there for their last years, and closeness
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u59	Mr President! I trust that you will wish us all a good summer, and what it is to be hoped for when the weather is great outside and we have these historic decisions ahead of us. I would also like to comment a little bit on this same theme, which is the way in which the opposition wants to force its people to mislead. Mr Juvonen spoke here that 0.5 now goes and that is not enough — that is what he said. First of all, we all know that, we legislators too, who regulate this law here, that 0.5 is not enough, and we also know that this is not going to work. This is only the first step, it is a process in which it is precisely from the point of view of transport that this can be realistically implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u62	Now we're heading towards the summer. Four more speeches to make.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u63	Mr President! During the election, I remember conversations with doctors and nurses about it, and one doctor, Laura, remembered. He said that he does about 30 percent other work than what it's a doctor's work, and that's administrative work, a secretary's work, a different kind of work because his hands weren't around him enough — the leading doctor. It has been a huge waste that such a professional has had to do something else and not the surgery, for he was a surgeon. I also heard that nurses really do all the other work, including cleaning, the kind of work that someone else could do, so that this trained nurse could then move on to the right job. I feel that today’s decision is, from the point of view of increasing hands, to ensure people for this Laura and these nurses so that these nurses and doctors can do the work they are best at. I feel that from the point of view of their professional ethics, too, this is of enormous benefit because they are doing this work with their hearts. All these nursing professions are vocational occupations, and I believe that when they see the elderly, especially around them, suffer from the lack of enough people to feed or care for them in the morning, they really suffer and get tired and may take sick leave for this too. That is why I feel that this first step, which is truly significant today, will increase that certainty and well-being among the medical staff, and this is a good sign for the future. Thank you very much to the government for that, and I am proud to be a representative of this period when this truly human law has been passed. I am afraid to wish you a good summer, but perhaps the President can wish us all a happy summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u67	Mr President! I am also particularly pleased that we will be able to conclude this spring season with this historic government proposal and its vote. I feel that this proposal for a carer's statute is particularly important for intergenerational justice. Today, I have come to mind the discussions I had with representatives of different generations in the parliamentary elections, both young and older, and yes, in my own case, in the elections, I said that this correction of the mismanagement of the elderly and the registration of nurseship in the law does indeed divide the votes for both younger and older people and it does unite. The majority of Finns want us to correct the mistreatment of the elderly, and this bill is now one step in that direction. Mr President! I am also particularly pleased to be able to tell my grandparents today, after this vote, that I have played my small part in correcting the mismanagement of the elderly, and I am sure they will be particularly pleased about that. I would like to thank all the representatives who have worked to achieve this goal during the previous parliamentary term, and now we are taking a big and important step forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u68	Mr President! It is now necessary for me to address Mr Vartiainen's prophetic speeches on the economic situation. He often suggests in this Chamber that he alone knows the only wisdom in economic policy, but this is by no means the case. I am deeply disturbed by this mantra of economic unalignment, as if no other vision of economic policy exists in this world as represented by Mr Vartiainen, or if so, it is completely illusory and separate from this world. It is this view that will eventually make the political debate very fruitless and narrow. Mr President! Today, too, we are faced with a very big choice of values. Today we decide whether the elderly deserve decent care and treatment. Today we decide whether the elderly care workers deserve time to focus on their work. In politics, I do not think that the economy sets the limits on whether decent treatment can be guaranteed. For me, the economy is an instrument, not an end in itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u69	I shall try to be very brief in my speech and just say that when Mr Kiljunen and a few others said here,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u72	Thank you. That's a very concise speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u73	Mr President! I asked for my own intervention because of Mr Guzenina's interest in the figures on which we are voting. Perhaps it is now unclear what is being voted on here, at least for some of the representatives of the government parties. Everyone here is in favour of going through this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u76	Mr President! Of this, we must certainly remember that we all know for sure what we are at and what we are voting on. No rejections have been made. There was an amendment to the entry into force provision, which was already voted on, and it was related to a proposal made by the Finns of Peru, because our wish was that the size would have been 0.7. A little different, a little stronger on the field, too. Mr President! There are a lot of good statements indeed, and we must thank the members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health when this was discussed. We Finns on the basis of the report were able to raise a few themes in relation to patient safety and also training places in the future, including nursing training. In the future, we will have a great shortage of skilled leadership here in Uusimaa, the capital region. It is up to the managers to ensure that the operating units operate in accordance with the laws and regulations, and the trustees, the occupational health and safety commissioners, on the other hand, will follow that matters are dealt with at grass-roots level. [President : Thank you!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u79	Mr President! To conclude, I would like to say that, yes, one measure of civilisation in our society is how we take care of those who have built this country for us, and here, today, when the President's dummies knock, we are taking a big leap forward now by taking care of the builders of this country and also the elderly in the future. This debate on the correction of the mistreatment of the elderly has actually been encouraging, that although it affects a certain part of the population of our country, the elderly, it has had very broad support from all population groups, from different demographic groups, from all ages. This debate has been going on for a long time, at least since 2007, and there will undoubtedly be one corner point, even though there is still much to do after that. Mr President! To this end, I would also like to say that I believe and believe that the decision taken here today also sends an encouraging message to people that politics matters. You can change the world. You just need brave people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u80	At this point, too, I would like to say a good summer to everyone, because this is going to go ahead formally. Have a good summer, all of you! — Good debate, an interesting debate took place here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u81	In the course of the debate, 18 draft statements have been made, so we must put the matter to the vote. The votes will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session resumed at 12.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u82	The sitting adjourned at 12.44 p.m. and the 5th item on the agenda are now resumed. In the course of the debate, Arja Juvonen, supported by Mr Juuso, has tabled 8 motions for statements under protest 1 and Ms Laiho Anna-Kaisa, supported by Mrs Ikonen, 9 proposals for statements under protest 2. In addition, Arja Juvonen, supported by Kaisa Juuso, has tabled a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u83	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, we can now adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u84	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The Council of Presidents proposes that Parliament decide to suspend the Parliaments at the end of this sitting and to continue its work on Tuesday 1.9.2020 at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-26-ps-104.u85	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Spring session is now coming to an end. In politics, we often say that we live in historical times. In the past spring, this old saying hits you unusually well. The Koronavirus renewed the agenda and operating methods in this house as well as in the whole of Finland and the world. We got through this well and in good cooperation, I dare say. Warm thanks for all the work done and for your cooperation with all the representatives, officials, assistants, the entire staff of the house and the media who reported on the parliamentary work. May the beginning of the summer bring calm to all of us in private and with our loved ones. At the beginning of September, let us return to parliamentary work with good strength. Have a nice summer, everybody!
