ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-16-ps-132.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 17/2020 vp. The general discussion was closed at the meeting on 14 October 2020. A detailed examination of the 6th draft amending budget is now under way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-16-ps-132.u2	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 October 2020. In the debate, Mauri Peltokangas, supported by Sheikki Laakso, has proposed that the bill be rejected and that Parliament approve the proposal for a statement under protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-16-ps-132.u3	The motion for rejection shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-16-ps-132.u4	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-16-ps-132.u5	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 October 2020. With the support of Mr Matias Marttinen, Kari Tolvanen has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-16-ps-132.u6	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the report SiVM 9/2020 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-16-ps-132.u7	Madam President! I noticed that I was registered here as the speaker, and here I represent the board of the library. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-16-ps-132.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-16-ps-132.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-16-ps-132.u10	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen and good chairman of the board of the library! I have spoken in full on numerous occasions. In time as a young representative of parliament when I came, I got a seat in the government of the Parliamentary Library, and it was an interesting lookout. When we went through the referral debate, I have thanked many times, as I did the last time, that the Library of Parliament has taken on the memory work of Parliament. It has been an extremely valuable piece of work. It has interviewed a number of former parliamentarians and some who seem to be here until the end of the world. I also said in that referral debate that it might be interesting — when the former Secretary-General from Tiit was interviewed — to take these long-term employees on the right lines. At the time I said that Mrs Reiska at the main door, whom everyone who worked in Parliament knows as Mrs Reiska — her last name I do not remember, she never appeared on her last name — or Mrs Marjan — everyone who worked here in her day remembers her, and I think that Marja has a lot to say that she can at least write down to parliamentary researchers, I don't know if she'd dare to put it all out, or Kaisu at the café, who everyone remembers with her. Interesting, long careers and many people who have seen the world and parliamentary work. I hope that these will also be considered, and I would like to ask the chairman of this library, Mr Kiuru, and the government to consider it. Quite a few places in fact there are sometimes situations where if we don't get the best service now, we get a little less good service, or sometimes we can get a bad service, but the library is such that I don't remember that I've ever had a bad service in the library. The role of libraries is extremely important. I welcome the fact that yesterday, when the government made new recommendations on interest rates, it said that there was an urgent effort to keep libraries open. This is an important issue and I hope that this can be done. Libraries are in fact a very affordable service, and the cost of libraries at municipal level is only about one per cent of municipal expenditure. For example, a few years ago operating expenses ranged from EUR 26 to EUR 176 per municipality resident and on average municipalities spent just under EUR 60 per year on library services. Libraries also have a clear connection to knowledge, children’s competence, and an interesting connection can be found in the article “The peak years of the library and the Pisa success of Finland” by Professor Ilkka Mäkinen of the University of Tampere, who was present at the same time between 1995 and 2005. Finnish literacy is also one in which libraries play a major role. The reading skills of Finns have deteriorated, there are worrying signs, and in fact, boys are clearly weaker than girls and many adults also have significant illiteracy. Libraries have an important role to play here too. From my childhood, I remember Pispan Maik, Arminen Liisa, Toivonen Tarja, who, by the way, made a big impression on the child and later on the young man: I always got help, got advice and always had new books to read. Libraries play a major role in this work. Also, according to a survey conducted by the Finnish Cultural Foundation for class teachers, book tips in libraries have been an excellent way to encourage children to read. In fact, we need more skilled librarians, and I hope that there will be stakes. Targets for the future in which: The Library of Parliament can also be a guide, for example, an e-library shared by the whole population, which is hopefully the future, but also the work done in teaching digital skills. It has been done since the early days of the Internet, and today libraries are also becoming more and more rapid in providing electronic information and hopefully also encouraging critical literacy. Mr President! The libraries are doing a great job.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-16-ps-132.u11	Madam President! A moment ago we had a referral debate on this matter, and it was gratifying to see that Mr Kiuru, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Library, who then presented it in another capacity, had the honour of presenting Parliament's reply, which was commendable and positive, and very good, because I also appreciate the work of the Library of Parliament and the library in general. Mr Heinonen, I am glad to be able to agree with you. We fully agree with Mr Heinonen that an interview with parliamentary staff, an interview with these legends, quite wonderful people who have seen a lot, would be a very good idea. I would venture to promise that there will certainly be government support for such ideas. Similarly, I agree with Mr Heinonen that libraries: [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-16-ps-132.u12	Madam President! Thank you for the words that the colleagues have said here, and I am sure that your message will be passed on not only to the library board but also to the library staff. First of all, this interview with the Members of Parliament who are sitting is important, because there are indeed long-standing representatives here who are continuing their parliamentary career. It is a good thing that they are given the opportunity to give background at this stage while they are still in Parliament. And then, Mr Heinonen's idea that this aspect should be broadened in the interviews with the staff – this information will also be passed on and thought about. After all, during the last parliamentary term it was introduced that not only Members of Parliament could be interviewed but also staff members, and here, for example, Secretary-General Tiitinen has been mentioned. Yes, that thought of Heinonen makes sense in that sense, considering that when the librarian gives the researchers permission to do these interviews, it is easy for the researcher’s perspective to go in a certain direction based on their sources, and if it is given that depth from the staff’s point of view, there may be quite different shades, even surprising shades, which tell about Parliament’s activities in their own language and which are relevant and important to history writing, need to be recorded. Let's think about this. Of course, it must be remembered that these interviews are really time-consuming, and I think it was the case that, for example, Mr Kanerva's interviews were conducted in as many as three extracts. On average it takes about eight hours per interviewee, but if you have a long career and many tasks, it may not be enough. - Thank you.
