ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u1	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the PeVM 24/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u2	Madam President! This proposal proposes to amend the party law so that the necessary signatures of citizens can also be collected using the online service. However, the traditional paper-based collection of the declaration of support would remain, but this would significantly facilitate the entry of new parties into the party register. We have examples of people who have formed numerous parties, and it has, of course, been a very laborious task always personally to collect these in the marketplaces and in the turous. After all, this system has been ready for us for a couple of years since 2018, and the Constitutional Committee has supported the proposal, considered it justified and stated that it is likely to improve political participation opportunities and facilitate the functioning of associations seeking to influence national affairs. I myself drew particular attention in this proposal to something that often gets a little less noticed and which I myself am pleased about around this corona age, also through the Teams meetings and meetings. This has little to do with the good, positive thing — if there is something positive about this corona crisis — that this can improve accessibility, including accessibility, and on the one hand the right to participate and to participate more easily than in the old system. By the way, not all people have had the opportunity to leave their homes to say that I want to support this new citizens' initiative or the new political party that is being set up, or to participate, for example, in the house organised by Mr Kurvise because it has been a difficult road away. Now that these have often been arranged through Teams connections, i.e. these opportunities for remote influence, many people have been able to participate and have been able to listen to the opportunity or association that they themselves are supporting. I also welcome the fact, Mr President, that the debate has been awakened and has taken place since this remote signature of citizens' initiatives has been possible for a long time now, that these citizens' initiatives will not be obsolete in the parliamentary term, and I hope that this reform will also be able to move forward during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u3	Madam Speaker! There is a unanimous report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the amendment of the party law, and this is a question of the fact that in future the association can also be registered as a party by electronic means and then be able to collect these declarations of support by electronic means. This is certainly a proper change that will support democracy and active citizenship and will also lead to digitalisation in our public administration. President! I entirely agree with the previous speaker, Mr Heinonen, that this distance, distance meeting is quite, you can say, a real digital leap. This is not just a dry digital leap in government papers and a technical digital leap, which is a bit of a joke, but a genuine digital leap that has taken place in politics, in the organization world, in civil society. It has created enormous opportunities and will certainly remain behind the interest rate. President! However, when it comes to the amendment of the party law, I would like to see this traditional influence through the parties and representative democracy given a little credit. Of course, I think it is great that we have citizens' initiatives, it is great that we have different moves on one thing, but I also think it is a little problematic that we should not go now if we want to intervene in white cheek geese, or if we want to intervene in abortion, in any party membership, and go there to collect names for a citizens' initiative or to hold events for a single movement. That is not necessarily a good thing in the long run either. We should consider how to influence through parties, to influence by voting, to influence municipal politics, to influence parliamentaryism even stronger. However, I say, President, that representative democracy is the foundation of our stable society, and we must consider what better influence of the law through the parties would mean, and the parties must also be able to resource. Here too, President, I agree with the assessment made by many media, that every person who goes to any local election of a legitimate party in any municipality of Finland is a knight of democracy, and we must bow down to every ordinary Finnish who puts himself on the line for representative democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u4	Madam President! It is important to lower the threshold for political participation by various measures, and this proposal is one of them. And, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has well said, and Mr Heinonen has already said in his speech, the possibility of electronic collection of declarations of support, for example, is a positive and important issue for equality and can therefore contribute to the fight against participation rates, for example, in terms of health or residence. All in all, this is a worthy proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u5	Mr President! It is good to see that there are some things in Parliament that are also unanimous. It seems that politics is more controversial than cooperation, although all of us who have been here for some time now, and especially in municipal policy, understand that it is precisely cooperation that is the way forward. It is important that the threshold for political participation is lowered and made possible for more and more people. This proposal, of course, is all to be welcomed, as has been unanimously promoted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I am sure that it will also be adopted unanimously by Parliament. Perhaps it is good for all of us at this time to see that, when we have these political debates here too or in other arenas, we would also promote the idea that politics can and should be involved, and we would also lower the threshold by our own actions and actions so that politics would appear not just as a arena of strife but as an arena of cooperation in which those things that are important to us can be promoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u6	Madam President! Mr Multala spoke very well about this very area of cooperation. Many young people today feel that the parties are not for them and that the parties are no longer for them, and we share our responsibility for the fact that the work in this Chamber seems to be necessary and that parties through the parties are able to influence and pay off. That is why such measures, which are also contained in this draft law, are justified, but I would like to see more in-depth consideration in the future, both at the Ministry of Justice and at the wider level, of this civic activity and influence in relation to the various movements of one thing, parties and cooperation through them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u7	Mr President! There are real needs for amending the party law, and one thing, for example, is to allow for the collection of electronic support cards. A few years ago, too, when the actual paper-proponent cards were collected in the presidential elections — it was full of fine encounters, but it was also a very great job, and if we were to think about it, this time, and especially this year, which we are now living in, it would not have been possible in any way. It is important to make it possible for democracy to take place, and it is a value that, if it is to be fostered, it must also be understood, and, in the end, politics is about promoting common interests and common interests. When it is known that in this time one thing movements increase, in a way one thing tip becomes stronger and this kind of person-related policy, so more is needed then bridge construction than wall planning. I now share in this Chamber jointly that this morning we had a parliamentary working group on the internal security report in the House of a large committee, and the internal security report and the issues relating to it have been very similar, at least in the last ten years, to parliamentary cooperation, joint, unanimous reports and so on, and when we were there in the meeting room, in the meeting room of a large committee, I said that this meeting room is good, because there is no angle in which each of our colleagues can go, because the meeting room of a large committee is round. We are all there at the same table and, in a certain way, at common affairs in the true sense of the word. It is also a time for parties to have a future and for people to want to be involved in building the future, it is important for us to understand that no one can stay there in their own corner, but that we need to come a little more central to look at the things we want to define together. Such presentations, such as those we now have unitedly present, also make it possible to drive and live with the parties in this time. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u8	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 25/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u9	Mr President! Let me briefly say a few words about this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. This is a regulation coming from the EU to try to create a framework for energy-saving behaviour. This regulation takes place by obliging housing companies, for example, to introduce indicators for household consumption, and it is hoped that this will provide an incentive for everyone in their own economy to behave more sparingly. This is therefore the Directive amending Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency. This applies in principle to electricity, gas, district heating and many other things. Quite a lot of these are water meters. In many housing companies, the situation is that water consumption is invoiced only by the number of people, the number of people, the number of knobs, which creates an incentive to use a lot of water. Now you can ask why regulation is needed. Do citizens themselves not already have incentives in housing companies to demand the installation of apartment-specific water meters? Well, it's just the kind of thing that needs a little push. This is not necessarily the case for households at their housing company meetings. There is also a cost of installing these indicators and changing the situation. So this is like pushing in the energy-saving direction. A number of legislation on housing and regulation of energy use will have to be amended. There has also been some national room for manoeuvre here and, quite reasonably, it has been used in the government's proposal to make this effort forward but not to impose excessive costs too quickly on anyone. Cell flats may be a small problem here. There this effort will not be fully realised. This regulates the responsibility for the functioning of the meters. In this respect, many of us decision-makers have also raised questions as to whether this right now requires expensive investment in all old housing companies. The answer is ‘no’. The main rule is that these new systems will be transferred in connection with various renovations and renovations. There is not, therefore, any huge additional bill that is being imposed on all Finns, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u10	Mr President! This is another issue in which good cooperation has been achieved in both the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on the Environment. This regulation is intended to influence people’s knowledge of their own activities, as it were, and in the light of its knowledge it can also influence their own behaviour. A good example of this was the consumption of water, and if billing, as it were, works on the consumption principle, it is likely to affect the desire to be thrifty and to use less. The kind of regulation that is smart about steering is good regulation and, as Mr Vartiainen has said here — and the unanimous report says so — this regulation has been welcomed in this House. Of course, as EU legislation, we are also obliged to do so, but in a smart way it is also included here in Finnish legislation. Thank you to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for your excellent
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u11	Madam President! Last season I was given the chairmanship of the Housing and Environment Section of the Finance Committee, and this property-specific water measurement in housing companies was discussed several times. I remember that in estimates of the impact of moving to individual apartment billing on water consumption there were quite large differences, but they ranged from 10% to up to a third that water is used so much less when it is actually paid for its own water use. However, it has now become clear that, since legislation has forced these investments, i.e. apartment-specific meters, we already have examples that certain housing companies have returned to billing based on the number of people. This has been justified, at least in the public domain, by the fact that measuring per apartment is so costly that it has been more reasonable to charge only on the basis of the number of persons. Well, of course there are remote water meters already, and I hope that will reduce this problem and get us in this direction. But we have another, where the previous governments and the current ones seem to go a little in the opposite direction, and that is waste management. After all, in waste management we no longer want to maintain so-called property-specific waste management, but to move to municipal waste management, that is to say, municipal waste and the transport of waste. This logic, which comes from these water meters, will then go a little backwards, so that man will no longer pay concretely for the amount of waste he causes in his own home, but will be shared jointly and severally by the transport and recycling and treatment of the waste, and will no longer be as tangible as when it comes to waste management on a property-specific basis. I would like this same incentive to be used in this issue of waste management, to pay for what is consumed or what is produced. That would be sensible and also environmentally excellent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u12	Representative Heinos often has good, worthwhile and smart ideas, as we heard today. But this proposal does not directly concern waste or waste management, but more energy efficiency. There are three points I would like to raise here. Firstly, the fact that it is regulation at EU level is a good thing, because then it affects the 27 Member States, thereby also achieving a certain degree of fairness and scalability, which is desirable here. At this point, there are countries that are already very good at billing, such as using remote meters for water issues. We are now looking for the same development in countries where there is no such technology. When all this is said about hundreds of millions of people in volume, hopefully this will have a positive effect, as it is. That is also why there is a unanimous committee in this regard. The second point I would like to raise is that of fairness. In this respect, it is now the case that those families which now happen to have many children will certainly train and teach how to save water, but those who have been allowed to consume more in the past have not been treated in the same way. So when their children and families have moved to other, their own, independent homes, then in the housing company where there are many children, this treats them, depending on how water is used, possibly unfairly. We hope that housing companies and housing companies will think more broadly about this, and here there is some national margin for regulation, as the chairman of the committee, Mr Vartiainen, has just mentioned. Then perhaps thirdly, the EU regulation will produce more of the changes required of housing companies in the EU framework on energy and climate issues, which is quite positive for this scalability. But if you think that renovations now need new plugs to be installed in electric cars, then other efficiency-related modifications — mandatory ones — and then these are still in connection with the renovation, then suddenly there will be huge additional costs during the larger renovation. When you see at this point how, for example, in some remote areas of Finland, the values of dwellings fall at the same time as they should be expensively renovated, this may be a regionally unfair treatment of different kinds of Finns. And this overall assessment would now be needed when these EU laws come into being.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u13	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 26/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u14	Mr President! I shall also briefly mention this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. With regard to this government proposal, it may really be possible to say that this is a minor matter. So this is a distribution obligation. A certain percentage of the fuel supplied for consumption by distributors of transport fuels must be biofuels per year. Well, a certain flexibility has also been created so that under normal circumstances this quota can be slightly postponed from year to year, which makes sense. And now that we are in such an exceptional situation where economic activity is at a completely different level than normal, this quota to be transferred to the next year will be slightly increased. It is the essence of this, along with a single delegation of powers. So this really only applies to this and the next year. This did not really give rise to a much more reflective debate in committee; no one saw the bigger problems here, and the committee was unanimous. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u15	Madam President! The chairman of the committee, Mr Vartiainen, presented this very minor change which has taken place in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and which concerns the obligation to distribute. In addition to taxation, the distribution obligation is one of the most important means of reducing transport emissions, and the number of biofuels in Finland has increased significantly. Today, with satisfaction, I noticed that the Coalition Party presented its own transport tax reform, which also contributes to this. Traffic emissions can therefore be brought down without sacrificing the freedom of movement in a country with long distances. On this occasion, I was pleased that Kai Mykkänen, the chairman of the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, said that it is possible for Finland to switch from a gas importer to a producer of pure petrol and diesel, and that is precisely what these measures are now aiming at. He noted, among other things, that there are now factory projects on the capture of carbon dioxide from the plant's pipe and the integration into hydrogen, which are waiting to see whether pure Finnish fuel or diesel — this is a good example of it — is acceptable to the distribution obligation. And I was pleased — now that we are talking about cleaner transport — with Markku Eestilä, the representative of the Parliament of the Coalition Party, saying that within four years the Coalition Party will seek to abolish the car tax. Mr Eestilä said that the abolition of car taxation is the most important measure which, in our view, solves most of the problems in terms of both road safety and emissions — a sensible, responsible transport policy that reduces transport emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u16	Mr President! As Mr Vartiainen said, this law is not much of a big deal, but, as Mr Heinonen said, the obligation to distribute in itself is a very important way of regulating that gas is available all over Finland, and hopefully it will be cleaner in the future. The Parliament Group in the Coalition Party today opened the way for a reasonably rapid reduction in transport emissions, and one important step would be the obligation to distribute synthetic fuels and biogas, which would make it possible for the remote region to continue to refuel it at the gas station, but that gas could be pure Finnish gas. This is already the case, for example, in the case of biodiesel, which means that diesel produced by liquid will reduce emissions by up to 80% compared to conventional diesel, and this is something many would be happy to use when it is not at a significantly higher price. Such means of promoting not only that movement around Finland, which we will continue to need, but also the reduction of emissions from transport, are the very ones that should be promoted, and I hope there is broad support for these proposals in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u17	Mr President! The committee agreed on this proposal. This is a good performance that we are in favour of moving forward. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-23-ps-137.u18	Partly for a single, partly second reading will be presented on the 14th item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 16/2020, the Protocol amending the Convention and the explanation referred to in the Government's proposal are decided at the sole reading and then at the second reading on the draft law.
