ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u1	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box, where you are already. Then I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to these ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u2	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u3	Mr President! Paris, Nice, Vienna — Islamist terror strikes time and again. Another excuse for hate is the cartoon image and the fact that, at least in France, Western freedom of expression is adhered to. Freedom of expression also applies to information or ideas that are offensive, shocking or disturbing. The government still does not say clearly that we are on the side of freedom of expression. On the contrary, the Ministry of the Interior is launching campaigns to curb the speech while Europe is being attacked. When people die in Europe at the hands of Islamists, the Ministry of the Interior and the government are looking for ways to allow illegal residents to stay in Finland. Mr. Government, you're making the security threat worse. My question is: are you going to withdraw the plans for the distribution of residence permits to illegal residents?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u4	Mr President! Thank you for the question. First of all, it wasn't some Home Office campaign. It was a joint campaign by Europol, supported above all by Germany as the EU Presidency. Then, as far as terrorism is concerned, we have discussed here before that this is a very serious and reprehensible phenomenon. It has been condemned by many of us in the government, and that is why we work together in various international bodies. We are working with Europol and the Member States are working together. In Finland, too, we have invested in the fight against terrorism: since these attacks, the police have, among other things, increased their visibility in Helsinki and, for example, the security of Jewish communities has been improving for a long time. So this is our common, global challenge, and I am sure that all of us will condemn this together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u5	Now I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions on this subject to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u6	Mr President! However, I did not receive an answer to my question. As many as thousands of people are staying illegally in Finland. According to recent information, the protection police already have 390 anti-terrorism target persons under surveillance. Supo estimates that al-Qaeda and Isil are still trying to make attacks in the West. Detention of illegal residents would substantially reduce this risk. Expulsion becomes more difficult or even impossible if a person acquires Finnish citizenship, and Finnish citizenship is now actually obtained from sale. The Finns have argued that the requirement for citizenship to live will be increased to ten years, as in many other European countries. I would ask again, and I would like a clear answer: does the government want to detain those illegally in the country and tighten the conditions for obtaining citizenship, for example, through the presentation of the Basic Finns and other means allowed by the EU Citizenship Directive?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u7	Mr President! Thank you for the question. We have dealt with these issues here before, and let me be more specific: the government programme record that if a person has received a negative decision on asylum, he can have a residence permit if he works here, it is already possible under the current legislation. The government is just trying to find some kind of status in this society for these people who cannot be returned when certain countries do not accept these people — all the previous governments and other Member States in the EU know that. That would be better, wouldn't it, instead of these people being completely on the fringes of society — we don't know who they are, we don't know how many of them are. So we are now working together to combat the emergence of a shadow society, which unfortunately has also emerged through decisions that have made it difficult for people to be integrated here. This government will work to combat illegal immigration and to combat illegal residence, and, as an example of this, new programming is now under way in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u8	Mr President! According to the Foreigners' Act, a foreigner who has committed a crime with a maximum sentence of at least one year in prison can be expelled from the country and, theoretically, a refugee can also be expelled. Unfortunately, for one reason or another, this practice does not work sufficiently. Often, expulsions cannot be carried out, even in the case of criminals, because human rights, because the security situation in the country of origin — that is, the country of origin, not the security situation in that country. In the neighbouring country of Sweden, it has already been said that many imams pose a threat to national security. Often, however, they cannot be expelled from the country. I would like to ask the government: what are you going to do about Finland being a free country for us Finns and not a free country for foreign criminals or Islamists?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u9	Mr President! I'm going back to where I last returned two weeks ago. This government has invested more in the security of Finns than any government in years, perhaps decades: hundreds of millions more euros in the Border Guard, the police, the Rescue Department, the Emergency Response Centre. Nor do I think it is enough, and I understand that, of course. I hope that, while you are on the board, you will also continue to work on improving the resources of the safety authorities. Too bad you've been cutting them before. It is quite clear that criminals will be returned from this country, expelled from this country. That's what the police do at the operational level. It is an operational activity of the police, and the primary option is always to return a person if he does not receive asylum here. Then, according to international law, a person can also submit a re-application, and many of these applications are made here, and many may also remain here on the basis of a work-related residence permit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u10	Mr President! Both the Minister for the Interior, Mr Ohio, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Haavisto, have made statements to the effect that Islamic violence is a reaction to exclusion and discrimination. I think it is morally questionable to send out a message that jihadist violence is the fault of society, that is, the victims. Such reptiles in the face of Islamism and Islam do not contribute to the solution of the problem. There is a violent and backward world of values behind terrorism, which is nested in Europe through immigration. If children and young people are raised to hate the Western way of life and to defend the glory of the prophet, the journey away from cutting off heads is not long. Ministers Ohio and Haavisto, will you tell us again what you think is the root cause of Islamist violence and terrorism and how you feel it should be tackled?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u11	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Halla-aho, for a good question. I'm trying to be punctual here. — First of all, Finland has condemned these attacks, which have been referred to here, both in France and Austria, in the most regrettable cases, and of course this should not happen in Europe. This is the question that Mr Halla-aho asked — what is the cause of Islamic violence, terrorism: surely it is the radical educational activity carried out in some mosques and by some religious leaders, which has also been condemned by the moderate Muslim community in the world and also in Europe. This is a very important message that the Islamic and Muslim community are not at all unanimous on this message of violence. How, then, could such a message be prevented? Of course, it would not fall into any fertile ground in any European country. We are talking about the integration of people into society and about the fact that we have equal positions, for all people, in our societies. But of course we must act against this radical message.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u12	Mr President! According to a recent assessment by the Protection Police, the threat of terrorism in Finland has continued to rise at the level. Supo has identified groups and individuals who have the motivation and ability to carry out a terrorist attack in Finland, and, according to Supo, people have moved from conflict areas to Finland who have participated in or supported the activities of armed groups in other ways. We need to take the message from the protection police seriously. It is not enough to talk about the threat of terrorism; we need concrete measures. All available means must be put in place in the fight against terrorism. The Coalition Party has previously argued that the so-called Danish model would be introduced in Finland, i.e. the withdrawal of citizenship abroad in the case of dual citizenship involving an armed terrorist group or similar activities. In other words, the nationality of a person with dual citizenship could be withdrawn if he or she is involved in an armed terrorist group or similar activities abroad. This is a concrete means, one small, but involved in all the concrete measures to combat the threat of terrorism in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u13	Mr President! Thank you for the question. I do not know whether the Coalition Party has forgotten, but, in fact, on 15 September 2019, a legislative amendment on the loss of citizenship has entered into force, in which a double citizen may be deprived of his or her citizenship if he or she has committed, for example, a terrorist offence that has been committed for at least eight years in prison, so that is already there. Of course, this government has also taken the lead on the point when we decided that children from al-Holi camp must be brought back to Finland — it is not their own fault that they have to live in such a place — that the legislation on terrorism is being passed together. The previous government has also done that work. We will continue this work and we will improve those laws so that these crimes, if they have been committed, will then also be punished.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u14	Mr President! In Europe, there are now unscrupulous massacres in the name of Islamic terrorism. Let's kill people in a shocking way today. I must say that our Finnish expressions of solidarity have been quite anemic in connection with these phenomena.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u15	Mr President! Thank you to Mrs Heather for her important question, and I also see that these are issues in which the European Union should act strongly together. It is a matter of showing solidarity with the victims of the attacks. President Niinistö has strongly supported President Macron's views and, through it, has shown solidarity at the highest level of government. This is an important issue. And now, in the various Councils of Ministers, these issues are also very specific, both for the Ministry of the Interior and for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There are a number of issues in this connection — border controls, border controls, police cooperation, security cooperation, cooperation between the protection police at all these levels — but also this political message of European pluralism, the freedom of expression that has also emerged here in the opposition's speeches. I see all these measures as important in order to preserve Europe's uniqueness and values.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u16	Mr President! Blocking or preventing the financing of terrorism is one part of this activity, and more stringent provisions are currently being laid down in the Union for money laundering that is known to have links to the financing of terrorism. This is one example of the wide-ranging activities that are being carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u17	Mr. Speaker! Surely all of our ideas are with the French and Austrians. Last time in the beautiful city of Vienna, this terrible attack on the synagogue has shocked all of us Europeans. It is absolutely necessary, as has been demonstrated here both by the opposition and by the government, to defend our European values, values based on the ideals of enlightenment, the values of an open, free society, and not by extremist Islam or any other religious or political fanaticism or fanaticism. Together we must eradicate this terrible violence and the threat of our societies. President! I would now like to ask you about the criminal offence of belonging to a terrorist group and the activities of terrorist groups in Finland: could the Minister of Justice tell you what the government intends to do about the criminalisation of belonging to a terrorist group or other criminal means?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u18	Mr President! As early as the previous Question Time, I said that this legislative process is under way at the Ministry of Justice. After all, in December 2019 the Government adopted a policy to move forward with the legislation on terrorism. The working group was also given the task of making comparisons, and the working group has done its work well. It has become clear that Finnish legislation is very comparable with other Nordic countries and also with Germany. However, the working group also proposed that there should be some form of criminal punishment for being part of a terrorist group and for participating in its activities, and this has been proposed in the group's own rather large proposal, which has been in the consultation process. At the moment, the Ministry of Justice is assessing how we move forward, whether a single bill will be brought here or whether an overall reform will be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u19	Irade the Talman! These attacks in European countries have, of course, shocked us all deeply, and the debate has also been taking place in Finland for a good reason. The protection police regularly publish a national security review, and, as Mr Talvitie said, they are considering the threats we have here. The protection police raised two groups in particular: on the one hand, extremist right-wing groups, on the other hand, radical Islamist groups and, in particular, their international links. It is clear that these threats must be tackled on a number of levels. In this Chamber, with great unity, we adopted the intelligence laws here recently. I'll ask the Minister of the Interior: What kind of tools has this provided to counter these threats? What kind of feedback have you now received from the police and the protection police on how these new tools have worked in this work?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u20	Mr President! Thank you for the very important question to the representative. It is quite clear that Finland was on the back way in that intelligence law situation before those laws existed. Now those laws are in our hands, and they are very effective tools. Among other things, I have had good discussions here with the Intelligence Supervisor and also with the committee, and the feedback from the authorities is that they will help us prevent, often at a very early stage, preventing certain potentially very large issues. In other words, without going into any more detail, as I mentioned last time in the same debate, we will receive a few days' further information from the protection police, among other things, on what kind of threats there are and how they are taken together by the authorities. Multi-authority cooperation is an essential tool in this respect, for the authorities to actively exchange information and intervene at an early stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u21	Mr President! The Minister of the Interior has just mentioned that attempts are being made to expel and remove illegal offenders and perpetrators. The fact that illegal residents are guaranteed the right to income and care does not fit in with the sense of normal Finnish justice. Detention would be the way for them to leave this place voluntarily. I therefore ask that, when you mention this, how do you explain the conflict, because in the Government Programme, on page 84, it says: ‘The government is developing legislation andimplementing practice in order topromotivate that the decision on the refusal of asylum can be more flexible to obtain a residence permit on the basis of work. “ I think you're talking to the people here now. On the other hand, I am happy if you are changing this legislation. Is that so, or is this phrase on page 84 true?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u22	Mr President! Of course, this would certainly be easier to understand if you wanted to understand it. As I said earlier, previous governments, the Home Affairs Ministers, including the Assembly,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u27	Mr President! At a time when the Ministry of Justice is now investigating these new forms of punishment for terrorist offences, the request is also to clarify the types of punishment that allow for effective, long isolation. We now have a situation in Europe where more and more terrorist crimes are committed by people who have already been in prison. Prison will not improve, rather the opposite, and that is why even though models such as the Norwegian model, which continues and continues to provide effective security, may be better able to isolate these people from society. But more importantly, there is now a debate in Europe between the Islamic world and European values — an open society, human rights, democracy. Where is a united Europe? Macron's alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u30	Mr President! All the Member States of the European Union have condemned the French attacks. We had a meeting of the European Council in which we issued a joint declaration and, in full agreement, condemned these terrible attacks. We also have after next week 19.11. The European Council, the main theme of which is this corona virus situation, but I am sure that this whole will be sidelined with regard to the attacks in Vienna, and I myself have sent the Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, my colleague, my condolences and my condolences to the families and loved ones of the victims of the attacks in Austria and to the Austrian people as a whole. It is quite clear that we, together, condemn these terrible attacks and stand together against this terrible terrorism.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u31	Mr. Speaker! It is now time, Prime Minister, to move from talk to action. Finland should also begin to banish, withdraw residence permits from those who have clear links with Islamic terrorism. Those who are illegal in the country should be put out of the country, taken into custody and then started the expulsion process. It is against international law that Iraq does not accept its own citizens. This is simply not acceptable to the people of Peru. I ask the government: why have you not taken steps in Finland to expel foreigners who are pro-Islamist terrorism here in Finland because of these recent events?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u32	Mr President! Mr Tavio himself says that Iraq does not receive these people. I am sure you understand the contradiction in your own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u35	Mr President! Mr Tavio's question included Iraq in particular. When I visited Baghdad and Erbil last summer, one of the main topics of the debate was this issue of return with the Iraqi Foreign Minister and the Iraqi regime. After all, Iraq is currently making two exceptions; of course, it will accept those who return voluntarily but also accept those who have been convicted, that is to say, criminals will be admitted there. This is important, but of course it should be possible to return to Iraq normally under these circumstances. The same themes have been on my recent visit to Afghanistan with the Afghan regime. Afghanistan has a duty to accept its own citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u36	Mr President! It is valuable that Parliament conducts such a debate and strongly condemns these acts of violence, the acts of terrorism that have taken place in Europe. I think that the whole parliament also supports the government in the fact that the government has strongly condemned these acts and also the mourning has passed. There has also been a strong view here that a common European approach is needed on these issues, and one instrument is, of course, coming to us; the Commission has put forward a proposal for a new immigration and asylum policy. I would like to ask the government: is there also one instrument in which we find a common European approach to these issues?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u37	Mr President! Thank you for a very good question. The Government will shortly be discussing the common position of the Government and Finland, which will then come to Parliament for discussion on this whole. This is, after all, a proposal from the Commission for a reform of hundreds of pages, which has been awaited for years. As I have said here before, it is like two different cups of a scale, which must be balanced, so that at the same time we have strong external border control and are constantly being strengthened — this is particularly important for Finland as an external border state — and at the same time we see a shared responsibility being shared in Europe. Let us all play our part, let no country be a free traveler, while at the same time safeguarding human rights, fundamental rights in that asylum process. This will be a good tool for sure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u38	Mr President! That French terrorist attack involves an attack on the church and brutal murder of a parish worker. In Austria, it was an attack on the synagogue and the Jewish community. For centuries, Europe has become accustomed to applying for protection from churches and places of worship. I therefore believe that Europe, which is slowly abandoning Jewish and Christian values, does not quite understand how serious the attack on both of these terrorist acts was. These were attacks at the heart of European values, and it was no coincidence that they were targeted at places of worship. I would have liked to ask the Honourable Government: do you understand how serious the attacks are? Is it possible that in Finland, for example, there will be similar attacks on places of worship, because in Finland, for example, there has been vandalism and various harassments against Jewish synagogues?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u39	Mr President! Mr Essayah raised a very important issue and it relates to the European basis of values, including freedom of religion and the right to practise religion in Europe. This is one of the fundamental European values we have been discussing here today. It is precisely this French act of terrorism, which is still connected with the church and people who go to church, that is why it hurt particularly much, because it also involves our own values. The same goes for the Jewish community, of course. I have also spoken to the Israeli ambassador about these issues recently, and they feel that there are two threats to the Jewish population in Europe. There is a threat to the extreme right — these attacks have unfortunately been there — and then there is the threat of Islamic terror, and the Jewish minority throughout Europe is now asking for the help of all of us and for the support of all of us. It is very important that we show them solidarity in this situation. This incident in Vienna was another reminder that we must also protect these religious minorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u40	Mr Mäkelä, who raised this issue, and then to other subjects.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u41	Mr President! Let us return to the Western freedom of expression which is now being paid a high price in France and Austria. In Finland, this apology for freedom of expression has long and sad traditions. In 2006, then Prime Minister Vanhanen apologized and publicly apologized for the publication of the cartoon of the prophet Muhammad in Finland. At that time, even legal changes were implied in the ranks of the Coalition Party that such images would not be published. That's when they put the police after the publisher. At least now the police are stepping up their efforts and visibility to combat the threat of increased terrorism. So we've learned something? When no clear answer has yet been received during this Question Time, I will ask the Prime Minister once again: will the Finnish Government continue to bow down to Islamist terror, or have you learned from those times? Do you now stand up for freedom of speech and the Finns without subservience?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u45	Now to the following subjects, Mr Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u46	Mr President! Over the past few weeks, we've been shocked by a break-in at the Psychotherapy Center. Confidential medical records ended up in the wrong hands, no less than two times. Data breach and patient blackmail are cowardly acts, and surely we all hope that the perpetrator will be caught. The breach has undermined our confidence in the reliability of information systems, including national and internal security. Trust in the protection of private data is important for people's sense of security. Those who are victims of information and blackmail will need support for a long time to come. Fortunately, it has also been available. It has been great to note that Finns have, as one of their fronts, expressed support for the victims of crime. Is the government now going to provide the courts, the police and other authorities with sufficient resources to solve this ruthless crime? And the government will ensure that the tens of thousands of victims of the incident in the defendant's office receive due justice, won't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u47	Mr President! Thank you for the question. — — — — Indeed, this incident has certainly shocked every Finnish and public sense of security in this society, the experience of always having the courage to ask for help, support and security, that authorities and helpers can always be trusted. Unfortunately, in this case, this feeling is many of the ropissut and charismatic. That is why the government has invested in the fact that, on the one hand, crisis assistance has been gathered as quickly as possible for these victims and, at the same time, it has already started to ensure that this will never happen again. We now have processes going on in various ministries, how to intervene more strongly, for example in the future, to ensure that this kind of data breach does not happen, that the systems are so well protected, and, on the other hand, how to spread strong identification everywhere in this society. A very important entity. We have just increased the resources of the police, including new police officers for the fight against cybercrime next year. Now, in this acute situation, of course, it is also very important that:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u48	Mr President! A very important question, and it is very important that our authorities and the police should now be able to do that work in peace, and hopefully the perpetrators will also be caught. That, of course, is what this is all about: we need a preliminary investigation, which will then find the person responsible or those responsible, so that these matters can then be dealt with by the courts. However, whatever it is, everyone who has now been the victim of this serious crime will also have the right to compensation if he has suffered direct damage from it and, of course, all possible assistance will be provided. Victim Support Finland has already received many, many calls so far, and the authorities have also done good cross-administrative work, and every effort is now being made to help victims of crime. I hope we catch these criminals who have committed a serious crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u49	Now I ask those representatives who want to ask questions about this subject to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u50	Mr President! Apparently, as many as 40,000 people were stolen from the data breach at the counter office. Saved data include name, personal identity code, contact information, billing data, and patient records and therapy data of different levels. The fallout of this information into the wrong hands has caused serious suffering to the victims. I'm afraid it's going to take years to process this large number of victims. It may also be that before the process is over, compensation may become more difficult over time. In order to provide all victims of crime with the necessary assistance and compensation for their suffering, exceptional means could also be considered in such a situation. I would like to ask the government: have you considered a separate law to compensate victims of the crime for the damage and costs caused by the crime?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u51	Mr President! We have not yet thought of such a separate law. However, the starting point is that we have good legislation in Finland. We have legislation that assumes that when a crime has been committed, the police will investigate, and when we have a person or persons suspected of a crime, the prosecutor will prosecute them, and then it will go to the courts. In Finnish history, we have also had such larger criminal codes in the past, but this is a unique one, hopefully unique one, there are so many victims here. But in this situation it is still too early to say what is required. Of course, the government will see to it that our judicial system will then be able to deal with these matters and these cases when they arrive. It is extremely important, and it is also challenging, but let us first hope that these perpetrators or perpetrators are caught by the Central Criminal Police.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u52	Mr President! I would like to thank the government and the corresponding ministers for the prompt arrest of you, with due seriousness, for this shocking crime. The Assembly also considers it important to do everything possible to help the victims. The Coalition Party also considers it important to catch the villains. Those piglike people who blackmail people with personal information about mental health deserve to be caught and convicted. Thirdly, it is necessary to maintain confidence in society and the security of personal data in the digital world and in health services. This is not a government-opposition issue; this is a common issue, and I would like to ask: what can we do together to maintain confidence in Finnish society, information security and our services?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u54	Mr President! I would like to warmly thank Mr Orpo for this very constructive and cooperative speech. It is indeed a matter of this shocking, repugnant act that has perhaps at the latest brought us to understand that cybersecurity and the protection of people in general is not only a fundamental right but also the backbone of this society in the data economy we are heading towards. And that is why, first of all, as we see to it that the victims of this tragic incident receive all the help they can, we look to the future, and I have been given the responsibility of the Prime Minister to coordinate cooperation in all areas of this sector and cybersecurity in such a way as to ensure that in the financial, energy, telecommunications, social, infrastructure and transport sectors, in all these areas of concern to society and also to the individual.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u55	Congressman Kyllönen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u56	Mr President! The shocking break-in of the psychotherapy company at the counterstore must not be forgotten, even though the media has already subsided. The act undermines social confidence in therapy services and, more generally, in social services. Unfortunately, the act also raises the threshold for people to apply for therapy assistance. The act is a gross violation of privacy with long-term consequences. Crime affects both victims and their families, but it affects society as a whole. Many private social services companies operate in large part with public funds. In order to prevent similar crimes in the future, consideration should be given to how to better protect sensitive patient data. How does the government intend to ensure an adequate level and control of data protection and information security in the social services sector, and how do we together ensure access to therapy also in the public sector? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u57	Mr President! I thank the representative for an excellent question, and I am sure that you and the whole Parliament have had a great deal of discussion over the last few years about how patient information systems could be safer. That is why, at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, there has been a real fever in the last days to improve these patient information systems. It is unhelpful that the information leak from the psychotherapy service provider, and this blackmail attempt involving users of these services, is shocking. It is shocking because people must be able to trust that sensitive information is safe. And once we have been awakened as a society in the past by the fact that this current expenditure cannot continue with regard to the information systems of the producers of these services in that we have a long-term vision of the A and B systems — of which this system of the Electorium has been at Level B level — today, at the Council of State's session,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u58	Congressman Virta.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u59	Mr President! This breach is not only a huge human tragedy but also a digital disaster that has now resulted in tens of thousands of victims of crime. The sense of security of many Finns has now been violated, and I am extremely sorry for everyone who has been touched by this shocking crime. I would like to thank the government for providing rapid assistance to victims and their loved ones, in cooperation with NGOs. We must now succeed in ensuring that the threshold for access to mental health services does not increase any further, and we must have the kind of mental health services in this country that, when you have the courage, the strength and the courage to seek it, you will also get it. That's why we Greens are in favour of a therapeutic guarantee. So I ask Minister Kiuru and Minister Ohio: what measures will the government take to lower the threshold for access to mental health services, and how will we now ensure that the security of systems containing sensitive information is genuinely adequate to prevent such digital disasters and shocking crimes, which are always undermining the security of our country?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u60	Let's take the answer from Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u61	Mr President! With regard to this second question, I am sure it is good to continue to say that we are now really going to bring to the House a government proposal which will include all patient information systems in Class A. They would be subject to Kela, coordination, so to speak, compatibility with Kela's systems, i.e. hard testing, that is, that we are at all at the level of information security that we need to have. And then I would also require a certificate of conformity. In this respect, this leap will be significant and I am sure it will answer the question of the representative, and I believe that this amendment to the Consumer Information Act will be supported in Parliament. So this was now the result of the government's negotiations last week. Sufficient resources were earmarked for this, and this leap will be made. This is a significant change. The representative also asked how access to these services would improve. It has to be said here that we have often discussed the fact that, unfortunately, basic action in the world of social services will not be able to get low-threshold discussion aid started quickly, and therefore the treatment guarantee,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u62	Congressman Eloranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u63	Mr President! The breaking and entering of the therapy center has shocked all of us. It is now necessary to minimise the harm to the victims by the actions of society. Victims of the information leak have to live in constant fear of using their name and personal identity code to make credited online purchases or to get quick credit. In the name of another person, this information alone may also make an undue change of address or report another person as the person responsible for the company without his knowledge. The detection of thousands of personal ID numbers, even tens of thousands of citizens online, forces us to consider banning the use of a personal ID number as an identifier without a strong identification. So I ask the government: will you make the necessary changes so that there is always a need for strong identification in the credit trade or e-government, rather than just a name and personal identity code?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u64	Mr President! I am responding on behalf of Minister Paatero, to whom this is actually a matter. It is precisely the case that this destructive work not only affects the most vulnerable people who have sought help in their problems — and now they have multiplied — but also, possibly, the new needs have been prevented from reaching out to help and this nightmare continues. That is why the Ministry of Finance is currently examining the situation as to whether the granting of a new personal identity code could be implemented more easily. There has been a very high threshold so far. This might be a first aid measure for the tens of thousands of people who now desperately need this help. But it is also clear that the methods of strong identification that are currently under way are those that are intended to become available in more and more services,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u65	Mr President! In cybercrime, evidence of these acts is often very challenging. In general, the problem of data breaches via the network is how to prove who committed the crime and how to bring him into legal responsibility. A skilled criminal, even an average enthusiast, is able to cover his tracks online in such a way that it is very laborious and often impossible to trace. My question, Mr Government, is whether our cybercrime legislation or the related legal provisions are at a level that allows us to deal with these crimes, or whether it is time to strengthen cybercrime law and cybersecurity legislation by re-assessing the whole package so that such criminals can be better held accountable in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u66	Mr President! Thank you for the very important question. Here earlier, Mr Orpo well said that the issue is a common one, and I believe that the government shares the view that good tips are accepted. Individuals have approached government ministers when they say how difficult it is, for example, to better protect their own data. All these tips will be taken into account in further work, including the preparation of STM and LVM. We are also pleased to hear the views of the opposition. If and when there are certain points in cybercrime legislation that we can correct, I believe that there is also a desire to go and correct them. The fact is that crime is constantly looking for and finding new forms, especially in a time when we have moved strongly to the network as a whole in many ways: to work and spend more time sometimes than with family members. Of course, this will require legislative review, continuous resource development by various authorities and, once again, strong cooperation between the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u67	President! Finland has the most mental problems in all OECD countries — that is, most of all. Anxiety affects up to 100,000 children and youths. Depression took nine people to retirement every day in 2017. What concrete preventive measures does the government intend to take to ensure that Finnish children and young people are better off? There is also a need for prioritisation. At the moment, we're going to need 50 million psychologists for schools. You're going to be 10. Why can't you prioritize for the benefit of Finnish children and young people?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u68	Mr President! This government does take many steps to strengthen the well-being of children and young people and also mental health. One of these concrete measures is strengthening the services of student and student services, i.e. increasing the number of school psychologists and school curators, to which 29 million will be spent during this parliamentary term. The representative here referred to the budget for next year, but this will rise from year to year so that at the end of this parliamentary term it will be 29 million. Perhaps even more relevant is the fact that the legislative amendment will also provide for the dimensioning of these services, which means that we have stronger regulation as to how many of these professionals should be working in schools across Finland, so that they can also be better and more equal in terms of regionality, to ensure that children and young people also receive help when applying for it in their own school or school.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u69	Let us take Mr Sarkomaa to this theme and then change the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u70	Mr President! One of the things about safety is that people can count on data to remain confidential when health services are used, and now this trust has been hit hard. That break-in to the defendant was indeed a repulsive crime, and it may raise the threshold for seeking therapy services. This may harm our mental health services for a long time to come. So it is good to think together about what we could do to build that trust. The fact that we do not have equal access to services in basic health care also contributes to insecurity, and that is why mental health organisations took the Therapy Guarantee People's Initiative, which we are disappointed to have been stopped in Parliament. The year has now passed, and Parliament should now finally work together on this initiative. I would like to ask the government: when all the parliamentary parties, the Greens, said last time that they were in favour, as we are all in favour, of that therapeutic guarantee initiative, is the government prepared to bring the bill and the budget to this therapeutic guarantee initiative so that we can finally make the therapy guarantee a reality?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u71	Mr President! Yes, there is a strong will in Parliament to improve access to treatment. It has been the subject of a long debate here over the past year that we should only start by improving access to psychiatric services or by improving access to all social services. In this regard, we have argued that, in addition to the need to have better mental health services available immediately in order to achieve a more stringent treatment guarantee, all social services need to be better available, and not the quality of these problems, whether it be knee problems or mental problems, here we should start to analyze. I think this is a big, important step that people don't stigmatize. All of them would be covered by the same treatment guarantee. The representative is quite right that one of the biggest issues is that the legislation on the treatment guarantee will be brought before Parliament, and as soon as it is ready, I will bring it here. As you know, this corona period has delayed the preparation of this legislation. It's not gonna be easy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u72	To the next subject, Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u73	Mr President! In Finland, the screening of cancers among women has been at stake for many decades. Mammography and papa screenings have improved women’s ability to survive cancer and enable cancer to be found in pre-primary stages. That's not the case with men. The most common cancer in Finland is prostate cancer in men, which kills about 900 men every year. There are over 5,000 sick people. Unfortunately, however, we have not yet introduced screening for prostate cancer. However, for cancer to survive, it is essential that the cancer is found in time before it has spread more widely. The Government Programme emphasises the realisation of equality in many areas. I would like to ask the ministers concerned: how does the government intend to promote equality between men and men in health care and how men can cope with this most common cancer among men and Finland as a whole?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u74	Mr President! The representative raises the right question. During the presidency of the European Union, we talked a lot about prevention and about our being able to make a forward-looking contribution to the welfare economy, and this always brings the question back to whether it would be possible to improve the state of health and well-being of people in a preventive way and then possibly reduce costs later. This is a big issue in social and health care at all. The representative asked directly whether the programme includes prostate cancer in the wider screening process, and unfortunately, in this context, I have to say that there is currently no such direct allocation for this yet, but it is good to say that, for example, in the case of intestinal cancers, we are now moving in the direction that these screenings are going to expand. As far as cancer treatments are concerned, in the context of the reform of the content of the war, we have also brought together expertise and are trying to improve the quality and effectiveness of cancer treatments even further during this government term. Even such a government program entry was made to show,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u75	Time runs, we move on to the next topic, Mr. Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u76	Mr President, ärade talman! Finns use the car for business travel because the trips are long and public transport cannot be used everywhere. Mr Government, Minister Harakka, are you going to increase the fuel tax? If you raise it, the solution is not that people with low incomes get money into the account, as you have advertised, because the overall tax rate is rising and consumption is decreasing, and it affects the pocketbook of every Finnish citizen. This doesn't make any sense. I would like a direct answer from you: will you increase fuel taxation or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u77	Mr President! This government implements the common goal of all parliamentary parties to reduce transport emissions. As I have said many times, we need a number of different ways of doing this, and last but not least, the price of fuel, so we do not want to increase fuel prices. It seems that the questioner is not very interested in the concerns of low incomes. For example, when the Coalition Party and the Finns Party increased the fuel tax by EUR 100 million last season, it was not interested in how it affects low-income motorists. We're interested. We found out how to make up for the increase that would hit the lowest incomes, for which the share of fuel in expenditure is many times higher than that of average and good income. However, when people with good income spend the most on petrol and diesel, whose price increases generate additional income for the state — that is, the same income that the Coalition Party and the Finns of Finland raised for EUR 100 million — the only difference is that they spent the money on tax reductions for the rich.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u78	Let us take one more question, one topic, and it will be presented to us by Mr Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u79	Mr President! We're going to spend 16 this week. Once an annual men's week, and on Sunday we celebrate Father's Day. In Finland, we can be proud that, compared internationally, we have wanted to build and be able to build the same opportunities for girls and boys in their lives. That is the way it should be, and this work must continue. In recent years, the exclusion of young men in particular has increased and a significant proportion of those excluded from education and employment are young men. Studies show that boys have particular difficulties in coping and motivated at school. The difference between girls is already evident in basic education. The boys' success in school will be weaker. Men are more often left to mere primary school than women. I would like to ask the Minister for Education: how is the government going to improve the boys' survival in the school world?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u80	Mr President! The questioner is quite right that we still have work to do to promote educational equality in this country, and one sign of this is the gender learning gap. After studying the situation in different OECD countries, it has become apparent that Finland has the largest gender-specific competence gap in OECD countries in terms of literacy. Since we know that literacy has a very strong connection to all learning, i.e. to being able to do well in school in general, I would particularly like to fly in favour of promoting literacy. In the last Pisa survey, two thirds of the boys in Finland replied that they only read if they had to. Of course, measures are needed in many areas of society. In early childhood education and early childhood education we need to invest more in literacy, promoting literacy. Measures are needed to ensure the diversity of children's and young people's literature, so that there are alternatives to boys who are interested in different things, but then we also need examples.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u81	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. Here the Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. In the case of scheduled cases, the procedures agreed in advance shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u82	Mr President! The Government proposes a temporary amendment of the Act on Public Employment and Business Services so that studies leading to a higher education degree can be offered as labour market training. Labour market training is a quick and flexible tool to implement training geared to the acute needs of working life, lasting up to 24 months and leading to a higher education degree. A temporary legal amendment would allow completion of a previous university degree, raising the level of education in the same field and, in special situations, the completion of additional studies required for a new university degree as labour market training. The advantage of labour market training compared to support for self-employed studies by job seekers with unemployment benefit is that the training is more strongly directed and targeted on labour market policy grounds. Similar opportunities have been in place until the end of 2017. For example, two training programmes were able to respond to the acute shortage of supervisors in the construction sector in 2017, where there was very extensive and good cooperation between construction companies, the Building Industry Association, the Employment and Economic Development Administration and the higher education institutions that implemented the training. As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the need for new types of expertise is now emphasised. The pandemic has partly changed the dynamics of the labour market and has changed the direction or priorities of many companies in order to require new types of skills. For example, in the field of ict, environmental technology, biotechnology, social and health care, there is likely to be an even greater demand for know-how in the field of corona pandemic and the resulting economic crisis. Training should already be used to prepare for this. Any proven effective means of developing the skills of jobseekers and responding to the skills needs of the labour market must be used to reduce the negative effects of the corona pandemic. Vocational labour market training is an effective labour market policy measure that has been examined. The proposed amendment would be temporary because the parliamentary reform of continuous learning also covers the target groups and needs referred to in this bill. The Act is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2021. It would be valid until the end of June 2022. The last training carried out under it would end in June 2024.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u83	Mr President! I welcome this proposal. Its goals are honorable and right. Promoting employment and securing the availability of skilled labour, especially in the corona era and in the world after that, are vital. In this context, labour market training must also be fully utilised to develop skills and meet skills needs. The expansion of labour market training is also a concrete means of supporting the ever-increasing need for continuous learning and its reality in our society. The proposals in the proposal add good added value to existing labour market training practices. In particular, I welcome the fact that studies leading to a university degree, which have been blocked for one reason or another, can be completed within the time frame. There is also an opportunity to sharpen higher education in order to diversify one's own skills, which is a very sensible activity and development in the right direction. In the same way, new courses of qualifications within higher education are possible. That's good. Labour market training also provides an opportunity to respond to the needs of local and regional labour markets. All of us here recognize that, for example, the household in Southern Ostrobothnia may have quite different needs for experts than in Peräpohjola or Lapland. This will enable us to take account of regional starting points and needs. I believe, however, that all of us are united by the demand that business is also a very important partner in the planning of labour market training. It is quite pointless to train past real needs without identifying the surrounding business field. President! I thank the government — this is where progress is developing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u84	Mr President! This proposal can be welcomed by itself, and it is good that it is now possible, as labour market training, to increase its own level of education and thus to improve the chances of employment. In this presentation I tried a little to look for what estimates are being made about how much of these higher education studies would now be replaced by this labour market training instead of those previously offered with unemployment benefit. Here it states that there is nothing more about it than indeed such approximate estimates. Perhaps in that sense you could ask the Minister for some clarification: now that the legislation has been in force in 2017, what kind of numbers can you assume that people would now be continuing, for example, these unfinished university studies? In particular, I have been somewhat concerned that we have young people who are going abroad to study these different lower secondary degrees, but then many times when they are going back to Finland, the possibility of having a master's degree at a Finnish university is not quite certain. And then there are such persons who are undergoing a bachelor's degree in certain fields of activity — for example, the commercial sector is one where, in Finland, it is then considered that a person with a lower university degree may very easily remain in a situation where, for example, there is no opportunity to work where Finland requires an economist's degree and a master's degree in the background. What are the amounts at present that could be thought to benefit people from this, and how many of these postgraduate graduates? On the other hand, of course, I wonder about this number of benefits: is there any idea here that a person will be treated unequally, because there are, of course, people who, from that college level, are trying to get their own university degree as a university degree, and the support of others will then be much better than that of others? Have these matters been considered in connection with this law? But all in all, this big picture is important. In fact, I have been waiting very long for this when, before the last parliamentary elections, we talked a lot about the fact that we have a million people in Finland, whose continuous learning needs to be taken care of, so it seems that we have been talking a little bit since the elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u85	Mr President! The effects of the Koronapandemia extend to many areas. Many companies and employers are still fighting to see if they can make it past the next month. The worst part of all this is that none of us know, because we are clearly getting out of this crisis and because the pandemic is completely over. This temporary amendment is intended to respond to a sudden increase in the need for labour market training, which is precisely due to the effects of corona pandemic. As Minister Hatainen said, the pandemic has changed the labour market and increased the need for certain types of skills in areas such as the ict sector, environmental technology, biotechnology, medicine and social and health care. This need will be highlighted, especially at a time when the acute economic crisis will ease. The pandemic has resulted in large numbers of redundancies and unemployment. It must be possible to provide sufficient support for the updating of skills, possibly even in a whole new sector, to re-employment of job seekers who are forced to become unemployed under these circumstances. This change in law is needed because labour market training alone is currently not able to respond fully to the shortage of labour in sectors where there is a need for competence at university or university level. In particular, there is a need for a degree in the fields of social services and construction, and there has been a shortage of experts in these areas even before the corona crisis. It is estimated that this proposal will cover around 200 to 500 people during the period of application. This needs to be speeded up so that we can respond to this acute crisis as soon as possible. However, an exceptional order has been made here, namely, I understand that this draft has not been consulted by universities, for example. Could Mr Haatainen answer this question again and say that it is apparently considered that this amendment of the law is also an approved and supported proposal in higher education institutions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u86	Mr President! I would also like to say, for my part and also on behalf of the Assembly, that we support this proposal. This is in principle a good thing, and this is actually a continuation of what has been in force in the past, that is, the possibility that, for example, you can complete your studies if you become unemployed, if you have missed a degree in higher education, then you can complete it and then you have a better chance of re-employment. That's very reasonable. Of course, in this situation of interest rates, it is clear that it may take a very long time for some sectors to recover from the interest rate, for example air transport, and then, of course, if there is such a task that there is no work to be done there, and then, for example, there is a significant labour shortage in another sector, even in the social and health sector or elsewhere, then, of course, this possibility that the previous degree can be supplemented by this and thus promote employment is in principle reasonable. Well, as Mr Salonen has said here, it has been estimated that this applies to between 200 and 500 people, that this is not a very important issue for the whole nation, but, of course, for the people concerned, this is very important. I think Mr Essayah here quite well pointed out that, of course, we must bear in mind all the time that we have other people who complete their studies and carry out their qualifications with other systems which society does not have the same favourable economic attitude as to this, which is why, of course, this whole must also be kept under control. I do, however, believe that, at the moment and in this situation, this is a good proposal and a positive proposal and a small solution for those trained people who, then, significantly improve their own skills, will help to find employment in new jobs or even in a new sector. But, of course, at the same time, I would urge that the government should be able to bring even more extensive employment measures here than just these, which affect a few hundred Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u87	Mr President! For example, in the field of ict, environmental technology, biotechnology, medicine, social and health care, there is likely to be an even greater demand for the covid-19 pandemic and the economic crisis it causes, and this is something that needs to be prepared for now through education. People who have been made redundant and become unemployed due to the impact of the pandemic are also involved in people who need higher education to re-employment, possibly even in a whole new sector. At present, labour market training does not provide a response to the labour shortages in the sectors concerned by competence at university or university level. Currently, non-qualification training of the type of further and continuing education can be provided, but not training leading to a qualification. However, for example in the field of social services and construction, a specific degree is required. There was a shortage of skilled labour on the labour market in certain sectors even before the covid-19 pandemic, and these needs have not gone anywhere in more sectors. For example, there would be a need for staff in the construction sector to carry out managerial and expert duties, but training cannot be organised in the form of labour market training because it is a training leading to a university of applied sciences degree. Mr President! Vocational labour market training is an effective labour market policy measure that has been examined. Its employment impact, based on up-to-date research data, is on average 10% over a few years. There is no detailed study of the difference between the effectiveness of labour market training for higher education and other vocational labour market training, but in general it can be concluded that the conditions for employment of higher education graduates are better than those for persons with primary education only. On this basis, it can be estimated that the employment impact of the proposed legislative amendment would be at least 10 % over a period of a few years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u88	Mr President! Mr Satonen raised an important point, that is, of course, all the measures at the moment need to be taken in order to increase the number of people employed. I would have asked Minister Hatainen about this: how many more people are now employed in this proposal? Anyone who is the only additional worker is needed at the moment. Concerns were also raised as to whether this could be some kind of route around the entrance exams. Of course, the creation of a new channel is certainly not appropriate at this point, even if every effort is made to make it easier for us to increase the number of people employed in these sectors, which are already suffering from labour shortages. Perhaps Minister Haatainen could answer this. And then, when would it really be possible for the first training to begin after this change of law?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u89	Mr President! Of these first trainings: it is estimated that they will start in spring 21, next spring. Mr Salonen asked, and Mr Berg also raised it, about this impact on employment. It can be said that it is easy to estimate this with fewer than a hundred people over the coming years to boost employment, but as we know, all education with qualifications, when a degree is obtained, will make a major contribution to employment. Mr Salonen then asked why the universities had not been consulted here. This amendment of the law was sought as quickly as possible because of the effects of this corona pandemic, i.e. because it was intended to be achieved quickly, and only the opinions of OKM, STM and VM were requested. This is a shame, of course. I agree that this consultation should also have been possible on a wider scale, but it should be remembered that this will not have a negative impact on universities, because universities themselves can decide whether or not to provide this education, and then the Ely Centre will have these trainings. Mr Essayah then asked how previously these trainings were attended, when these provisions were previously in force between 2003 and 2017, during that period it is estimated that some 300 to 900 started university degree-oriented training annually. It is now estimated that some 200 to 500 people per year now that this law has come into force again will take part in training. Then there is the issue of inequality when part of unemployment benefit studies and part does not. We know that it may seem that way, but we must remember that when a person becomes unemployed, it is quite a drop, so it is better that this unemployed person, with his unemployment security, is able to study in this way, regulated and limited, here too. That this is under control as well. Any other questions? I did not see any other questions at the moment, but I found that the House is very pleased that such a change will be achieved and that it will quickly be possible to help people during this corona pandemic, when they have become unemployed, to get training for themselves and then to enter the labour market, and also to get workers in the bottleneck sectors who are clearly in short supply at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u90	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. In this respect, the Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs, to which the Economic Committee must give its opinion. Here, too, a maximum of 30 minutes is set aside for the referral debate and the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases are followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u91	Mr President, värderade talman! The coronavirus pandemic that started last spring has caused problems for citizens, businesses and the Finnish economy as a whole. In these challenging times, SMEs in particular have been in financial difficulties as sales decreased dramatically last spring, especially in the services sector. Unfortunately, we have not yet overcome the coronavirus pandemic. In order to alleviate the plight of entrepreneurs, the government has decided to present the present proposal for a temporary limitation of the collection costs of corporate claims and the use of trata.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u92	Mr President! The Government's proposal aims at facilitating the situation of companies in financial difficulties as a result of the corona epidemic. This is just the right and necessary action. The proposal proposes more detailed regulation of non-consumer recovery costs and restrictions on the use of trata. It is a good proposal and the need for clearer regulation of recovery costs between companies has long been seen. There has been no actual consultation on the proposal as the changes are expected to enter into force as soon as possible. In further preparation, particular attention should therefore be paid to the fact that the debtor and the creditor are not confused in relation to the Late Payment Directive. I wonder, for example, that the government's proposal proposes that a maximum of EUR 10 may be required for a reminder of payment submitted in writing or otherwise on a permanent basis. However, under the Payment Time Directive, the creditor is entitled to at least a fixed amount of EUR 40 from the debtors upon payment of interest on late payment in accordance with Article 3 or 4 of the Directive. In practice, if a standard fee is required, it is required for the first reminder of payment. President! Even in the preparation of the draft law it is stated that this amendment cannot override the Late Payment Directive and Article 10e of the Recovery Act on standard reimbursement. In its current form, the text of the legislative amendment may therefore cause confusion to the creditor, especially the debtor, because few people are familiar with the EU directive. I would like to ask the Minister — thank you for being here: how has this matter been taken into account in the proposal, in order to avoid this confusion? Similarly, I think that particular attention should be paid to the fact that the prohibition of tratta collection would not discriminate between entrepreneurs in the form of partnerships and micro-entrepreneurs in the form of limited liability companies. Based on my concern, the proposal to ban the use of trata in the collection of personal identity companies is proposed. The idea behind it is probably that in private companies, entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs are personally liable for debt and thus the payment default marking caused by trata would cause financial difficulties for the entrepreneur as a person. I am not quite sure about this view, because I understand that the tratta cannot be used in the inheritance of a private individual. In this case, the payment default marking registered for a partnership does not appear in the personal credit information of the entrepreneur. I would like to continue with my own understanding in order to add my question to the ministry on this issue too, bearing in mind my concern as to whether this equality or potential inequality between the various forms of company has been considered at this point. President! As I said, the starting point for the proposal is correct and quite understandable. Thanks for the show.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u93	President! According to the Government Programme, the amount of chargeable recovery costs that are the subject of recovery measures is subject to a ceiling in euro even when the debtor is a non-consumer individual. The Government also promises to take action to strengthen the capacity of the authorities to intervene in the fight against good practice and to make the necessary legislative changes to the enforcement curve, to introduce a positive credit register and to shorten the duration of default marking. I am still waiting for these changes. The number of enterprises with a default mark decreased by over 10 per cent year-on-year. The problem is therefore not the same as for consumers, for whom more than 6000 entries have been made this year than one year ago. Overall, almost 400,000 consumers have a default mark. However, I believe that this proposal on non-consumer claims should be supported from the point of view of the equality of debtors. But when does the government wake up to the seriousness of the problem? We need permanent legislation, not just temporary solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u94	Mr President! Minister! The Government's proposal for a temporary amendment of the Law on the Recovery of Receivables to Parliament, which is now under consideration, is a welcome hand-out for entrepreneurs facing debt problems. In Finland we are currently living in a very special time. Some of us remember that this has been the case for example 30 years ago, and these are not the first accidents in the world or problems caused by this kind of corona, there have been similar sharp falls in the business field, and these are not the last. The worst thing is that at the moment we do not know when this uncertainty will end or whether it will ever end. Mr President! The authorities have forbidden their subjects, the challengers and the tax authorities, by means of their recovery measures to cause unnecessary bankruptcies. That is good — but what, then, is a pointless bankruptcy and what is not? It's really hard to assess. According to information obtained by my assistant, there are already a large number of inviolable companies in Finland that can no longer be helped, because there is no money so large that everything can be saved. This is a fact, whether we like it or not. It is quite right, of course, to try to avoid unnecessary bankruptcies until the very last. However, everything is limited, because an entrepreneur who is in difficulty should be able to give up when nothing really can be done. Debt counselling and corporate restructuring professionals tell us that too many entrepreneurs who have experienced overwhelming difficulties are no longer able and able to deal with their essentials at the last time, but that the books are not kept, the accounts are due and the accounting office stops providing assistance. Too often the result is even a business ban and, as a result, a dead end when a debt arrangement is blocked by a business ban. Today I have received a report from my assistant telling me that there are 39 new entries for today in the territory of my constituency of Vaasa. This means that these are public declarations of default, i.e. unaccountable tax retentions and VAT items published by the taxpayer in a special tradition. In reality, most of these are at an acute risk of bankruptcy. The government's proposal before us is a good hand-out, but in reality it has little effect in relation to the crisis at hand. It is also worth noting that there is a risk that companies that are already mature in bankruptcy will continue to go into deeper and deeper problems. Minister, the aim of the bill is good. However, I would like to know whether you have taken note of the fact that a ban on unnecessary bankruptcy may cause many entrepreneurs to fall into an ever deeper impasse, and even their resurrection will be prevented by the fact that this will result in a business ban, which will ultimately prevent debt restructuring. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u95	Mr President! This is certainly a good and worthy government proposal, and I think it is important that, in the midst of a national and indeed global crisis of this kind in Finland, the government should draw attention to the fact that no person's distress should be abused in an unreasonable way, for example by this government's proposal to moderate recovery procedures or, for example, by the good laws that have been laid down in the past, for example, to limit leverage. Here, Mr President, there have been good speeches in the course of the debate on various aspects and important questions for the Minister, but I would like to ask the Minister myself about the principle that, when, for example, we have managed to limit this kind of effort, or if, as I am sure you will see, Parliament is able to deal with this rather quickly, is it not, however, that this kind of action should be of a permanent nature, that the other person's need for money, at least not in an excessive way, as I am sure the example of these examples raised by the Minister, has obviously come to pass in the past? In other words, this principle, Mr President, is what I am asking.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u96	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. — — — — Tomorrow, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we will have hearings about a fixed-term law on the recovery of claims from this government proposal. In the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we have had a double change in the law on enforcement and then a change in the bankruptcy law, which is now in force until the end of January, and I understand that there might be a possibility that there might still be something going on with regard to bankruptcy. The time has come, and I hope, of course, that the changes will come as soon as possible, because if any changes are made to the criteria of bankruptcy law there, it would be good to be able to do so in a broad manner, then on the basis of the consultations. Of course, it depends on how much time the ministry may have had to carry out the consultation — the better it has been prepared, the easier it will be. The reasonableness of recovery costs, if we are talking about this law, is very important. It must be reasonable in all situations, but in these situations it is always difficult to weigh, especially on the bankruptcy side — the interests of the entrepreneur, the creditor, the interests of the debtor. Fortunately, the bankruptcy law, for example, is now in place with those conditions other than that assumed by the demand for payment, this so-called eight-day assumption, if I recall its familiar name. There have been some inquiries about whether or not we are going to continue. The Committee on Legal Affairs then stated in its opinion that it would appear that there are no longer any conditions for legislation of that kind, and that it would continue under the same conditions. I would have asked the Minister: this debt of people is a broad issue, there are many reasons for it, and now the interest rate has brought more. Whether or not we're on the debt side now at what point. We have good debt engineering legislation in principle, but there are certain points where one might wonder whether they are too strict for the conditions of the debt arrangement and whether they are all today. Of course, for example, criminal claims are in a quite different position than being left in debt because of unemployment and illness. Is there anything coming in any time soon? Then there is the question of the abolition of the default mark — if the Minister could tell us what projects are in progress in this regard. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u97	Mr President! Mr Autto raised the very point that I inadvertently forgot about. One might ask the Minister: why is this bill on a fixed-term basis? In my view, at the moment, if we are talking about different industrial branches, the best conditions for their own industry are in the fast-track and recovery industries. These amounts are quite unreasonable, which can be charged to both the individual and the company for the inheritance that is likely to be handled automatically by the computer. Just going through one thing in the weeks. It was EUR 129, which was then EUR 339 through recovery measures. That some kind of attitude should be in these things. Of course, the problem has been that the bill has not been taken care of, but it is incomprehensible that the payment that was originally not paid may multiply. I suspect that the period of six months that has been laid down for this law to be temporary will be unhelpably too short. That time could perhaps be longer for favor, and in my opinion it could be a permanent law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u98	Mr President! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen! Good questions and comments. Let me start at the end and say straight away that the intention is that we should also have a permanent law in preparation. In other words, this is the law that is now going to come into this crisis, but we intend to introduce permanent legislation on the collection costs of corporate claims separately, and that preparation will begin next year. So, in that regard, you are on the right track when you also call for this to become more permanent. Well, then a few other comments: The situation here is that many companies are in a difficult situation. The aim of this provisional legislation is now to facilitate the situation of these companies from now on until next summer. The question was also raised about this bankruptcy law and whether the government would continue to make a proposal. I can tell the chairman of the Legal Committee, Leena Merelle, that she's on her way. At the Ministry of Justice it is now being prepared, and I hope that in these weeks to come it will come here as quickly as possible and that the work will be done as carefully as possible. It is intended to extend the eight-day call for payment under the current law to 30 days, i.e. a month. In other words, if the company has not been able to pay a clear claim within a month, then the bankruptcy conditions would exist when it is eight days today. After all, we now have the temporary law which, for its part, now facilitates the situation of companies in so far as the creditor is not now in a position to use the eight-day call for payment. Then the representative Mäenpää asked and was concerned about the situation of weak companies, those who are already in such bad oxygen, perhaps that bankruptcy would be the better way. You always have to remember that a company can file for bankruptcy itself. After all, the government does not prevent any companies from going bankrupt themselves. If the company is of the opinion and the entrepreneur is of the opinion that it is now necessary to raise their hands, it is quite possible. The government is just looking for ways to prevent creditors from seeking bankruptcy, which, if we look ahead, is in such a condition that they can survive in the future. That is why we are also making these interim legislative proposals now, which will make it easier for companies in this regard. But keep in mind that each company and every entrepreneur, of course, will decide for themselves. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u99	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u100	Mr President, värderade talman! This government proposal concerns the implementation of the Directive, which further strengthens the penal provisions on money laundering in the Criminal Code. On 23 October 2018, the European Parliament and the Council adopted the Directive on combating money laundering by means of criminal law. The Directive lays down minimum rules on the definition of money laundering offences. It complements existing international regulations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u101	Mr President! Combating crime is one of the most important tasks of society. It is really important that Finns trust that those who are on the right side of the law are always safe and those who are on the wrong side of the law are held responsible for their actions. It is, of course, great that the government is now presenting an amendment to the criminal law on money laundering, and now even more so with the implementation of these European regulations, the fight against money laundering offences in Finland will be strengthened. This week, Mr President, we also received good news in the sense that, in order to prevent practical crimes, the government is proposing that the police should have more resources. The police are receiving resources for sparsely populated areas, which is very important. A large part of Finland has been concerned that the hand of the law may not be able to protect those who are on the right side of the law and, on the other hand, to discipline those who are on the wrong side. In the same context, the police also had a lot of resources to investigate human trafficking offences, and that is certainly also necessary in itself. Then this week Finns have been shocked, perhaps even from earlier times, by this great data breach, which has also been much discussed here in Parliament today, but then this week especially this young man's killing in Vallila, where he had previously tried to kill a person in Tampere and then moved here to the capital region. The police had put him in prison, but the court had held that it was not appropriate to keep such a killer inside the stone. In a way, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: After all, the Minister of Justice recognizes this problem, which is that we do have, for example, these financial crimes or, for example, human trafficking crimes, their investigation and so on, there is certainly legislation that is being properly updated all the time, but at the same time, people in the capital region, for example, face situations like this in their everyday lives where a brutal killer can be killed in this way at the corner of a local store? What legislative projects, the amendments to the penal code, are going to prevent such situations from being formed in advance by our criminal law and the penalties imposed there? This person, too, has already been in the hands of the authorities for attempted killing. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u102	Mr President! We will, of course, begin to study this with interest in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I would have asked the Minister just a few things at this point: When it is stated that the act’s role is to ‘help Member States and alsothe Finnish authorities to prevent and resolve money laundering offences’, does this also mean that it is easier We could sort this out if it's clear to the minister. I'm sure it'll come to the hearings, but that's the idea that came to mind. And I would like to ask the Minister whether we can do anything about that — I don’t know if — where is there some feedback from people, and I too have noticed that these people who are laundering money and doing drug offences and so on sometimes are out there and are able to hold on to that money and convert it into so-called legal money, but such an ordinary person, such as a customer of a financial institution, then, with a variety of papers, has to sort out the origin of the money, and sometimes it seems that the ordinary person with his small money is responsible for it. I would say, for example, even though this is about the Member of Parliament, that I had lost my credit card, and I had not noticed that it had to be renewed when it had such a reform. And then I called there, and they said that it's all right that it's been renewed, and then this gentleman on the phone looked at you as a politically influential person. I said yes, yes, but I've had that card for years, and then I was told that I can't talk to you anymore and hung up. I had two days to wait, and then I got a call. I then had this debit on the same card, so I had no means of payment, and I had the feeling that it was precisely because of these money laundering and the collection of this information that it was a very fine principle, but then, in practice, that I already felt like a criminal when I was told that I could suddenly no longer speak to you on the phone. Do you feel, as Minister, that we have the necessary and good tools to genuinely catch up with those people? We have comprehensive criminal clauses, but to catch these people, and somehow to make sense of it, it would not seem that those law-abiding people will then be filling out those tickets and labels and then these people who, for example, receive a lot of money from the drug trade, then trickle over them. Do you have any idea what's going on here? This is in no way just a task of criminal law, but it is also a task of catching people. I have to say to that previous speech that I quite agree with that gross data breach, that the penalty scale, when it ends in three years and starts with a fine, is quite light — has this perhaps occurred to you when it has been laid down. Compared to gross embezzlement, there are four months — four years — and this is almost greater in effect. That's where the accordion ends. I hope that the Minister will also draw attention to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u103	Mr President! Thank you for these comments and comments. — Mr Meri asked about this cooperation, and I have understood that we already have extensive cooperation in the European Union today, but this proposal is now based on a directive which now further approximates criminal law among EU countries, and when Member States' criminal laws define money laundering in a uniform way, this cooperation between the authorities will also improve. That's the idea in the back, too. In the fight against money laundering, it is essential to reduce crime opportunities and increase the risk of being caught, and in this respect it is also important that the prior supervision of money movements is in place, and in this case it falls within the remit of the Ministry of Finance. We have the Money Laundering Act and we also have the Financial Intelligence Centre in the context of the Central Criminal Police, which means that much has already been done to ensure that those responsible for money laundering are caught better than they are today, and now this criminalisation will further strengthen this. Well, there is also a further improvement in ex ante controls, and a number of legislative projects are under way, particularly in the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance. I, too, called for and asked these questions, and that is why I have now received an explanation which allows me to give you this information here and now, because I see that this is a question of intersectoral cooperation and that all these issues are linked. Finland is strongly involved in international cooperation in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, including the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Action Group (FATF), which monitors the situation and risks of money laundering and makes global recommendations on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Then, with regard to the fight against crime, Mr Autto raised a number of topical issues which are not directly related to this money laundering, but are very topical and very, very serious and very unpleasant cases all of these. This is where Question Time went through this case in the Answer Room. Information security crime is also very reprehensible crime, and especially in this case, when you start using people's information just like the data at the heart of your body in an incomprehensible way and blackmailing it, so it's not from anywhere. As far as the legislation on criminal law is concerned,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u104	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Administrative Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u105	Mr President, värderade talman! The Government's proposal proposes legislative changes that have been considered necessary by the Council Regulation establishing the European Public Prosecutor's Office in 2017. The EPPO shall have the power to investigate, as an independent EU Prosecutor, crimes against the EU budget and prosecute suspects in national courts. The Agency shall be composed of the central office in Luxembourg and the accredited European Public Prosecutors in the Member States.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u106	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 11/2020 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. Presentation, Congressman Satonen. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u107	Mr President! Of course, I am not rapporteur when this is the report of the Committee on Transport and Communications. . . [First Vice-President AnttiRinne : I apologise. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u110	Mr President! I agree with the praises of Mr Satose, Chairman of Yle's Board of Directors, to the Committee on Transport and Communications. This report of theirs has taken into account the very essential aspects of this report by Mrs Yle. I'd like to bring up a few more here myself. Yle is doing a hugely important job in Finnish society, and the work is shown by the fact that as many as 87 per cent of Finns rely on Yle’s news and more than half on Yle as the number one news actor in Finland. In the survey, Finns considered Yle to be the most reliable media companies, and this is worth noting. On radio and television, this service provision Yle has remained on level with the previous year, but on the web and mobile applications side the services have been increased and developed, and this is of course very important in order for Yle to live in time — in the same time in which Finnish society lives. Audio content, podcasts, which have also been very popular, has been added. Although the weekly reach of radio and TV services decreased slightly, the weekly reach of online services increased accordingly, and this also reflects this media break-in. Traditional media is followed by the most older generations, and investments have been made in their content, but also in new technologies and policy reform. After all, a new strategy was adopted by the Board of Supervisors in 2017, which specifically aims to ensure that these content reaches as wide a range of Finnish generations as possible from older generations to young people, and the use of media, especially for young people, focuses on online content. This change in the media field is not only here in Finland, it is an international transformation, and the need for reliable media sources has grown enormously in the world. Therefore, when YLE reaches 96 per cent of Finns each week and as much as 78 per cent every day, it is extremely important that YLE retains this trustworthiness status. The most interesting service at the level of the entire population is Yle in TV1, but then, when you go to people under 45, it is already Yle Arena, and I am a regular and diligent user of Yle Arena myself. You can select evening news and other content from there at your own pace, and when this reform was put in motion and Yle invested in it, it has also been one of the factors that has kept Yle the number one in this Finnish media field quite clearly. But the transformation of the media also means the fragmentation of the media, and that also means that we must take into account the difficult economic situation currently experienced by commercial media, for example, and even here Yle's cooperation with commercial media is extremely important, because the more diverse our media is, the more democracy becomes, and Yle is precisely one of these cornerstones of our democratic realisation here in Finland. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u111	Mr President! This corona year, which has followed this year in 2019, which we are discussing today, has indeed shown the need for reliable information. In this regard, Mr Satonen pointed out how this corona period has made it concrete how information plays a role even in security. When we quickly receive up - to - date and reliable information, we will be able to prepare and do the right thing. We have also seen misinformation and disinformation in this year, which has even undermined safety and health. It is therefore important that we have such people as Yle, and especially Yle, whose content we can rely on in every situation and in every case. And we parliamentarians and Parliament have an important role to play in safeguarding Yle's position in the future, both through legislation and through funding. The year 2019 has indeed been impressive in Yle's figures, as Mr Guzenina has also pointed out above. Up to 96 per cent of Finns are reached every week, and this popularity of the Yle Arena is quite a wonderful thing. It is more popular than these commercial streaming services, which, of course, in the world have gained a huge foothold in the everyday behaviour of consumers. Trust is also very high and, of course, extremely important when it comes to such a publicly funded media company. This quality content, which Yle produces, serves all Finns, but it is especially important for people who do not have this wide range of services to choose from other services, such as hearing impaired people or people who are Sámi-speaking. On the other hand, children and young people also depend to some extent on Yle’s content because they are Finnish-speaking. In fact, I believe that Yle has done a particularly good job in relation to these specific groups in recent years and in the last year, and I would like to thank Yle for this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u112	Mr President! The report of the Board of Directors of the Finnish Broadcasting Company 2019 will be discussed. I was reading this, and this is, of course, a pleasant reading. Broadcasting enjoys the appreciation of Finns and reaches 96 per cent of Finns each week and 78 per cent of Finns every day. The level of ambition is high, and YLE must continue to be widely visible in the media field. It is good that this study now shows that 67 per cent of Finns trust YLE very much or quite much. Finns feel that this reliable information is important, and Yleisradio's operations must be at a high level, and it is important that we have a reliable national media company here in Finland. Of course, it is important that there are also these commercial reliable companies. For example, now that we are following what has been the President of the United States during the presidential election, and indeed for the last four years. In Trump’s time, it’s quite sad and also highlights how important it is to have a reliable and strong media that reports on the basis of facts. For example, there in the Yank, different alternative media and conspiracy theories now gain strength from it. It is a direct result of the fact that the media field is doing whatever happens and reporting such fake news stories. Here I was looking at this programme production and the quantities and, of course, as a sportsman, I would like to see more sports and sports-encouraging software. This represented a 10% share of programme production in sport, and of course it would be desirable now that, even during the corona period, it has been noted that, especially for children and young people, of course for older people and special groups, the opportunities for sports and sports have been reduced and it has become more polarised, that even more might be advisable for the general well-being of this kind to also bring more sports and sports-incentive programmes from the television side. It's a sportsman's opinion to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u113	Mr President! For my part, a brief comment mainly on what Mr Guzenina has said here, to a certain extent also Mr Pitko — of course I would also like to agree with what Mr Asell said about sport and everything else. I believe that this statement by Mr Guzenina that we must of course understand what the Yle field of action is, in order for this commercial media to survive here too, is extremely important, because it is, however, limited. Even though it spends more than 500 million a year and the money is collected from taxpayers, Yle is still not able to serve in the field of local newspapers, for example, nor in the provincial newspapers, although it is supplemented by regional deliveries. It is extremely important that we also have national high-quality newspapers and high-quality TV channels, and in this respect it is very good that, for example, MTV has recently become more active, including channel four and so on, and these others, Alfa TVs, all the others, bring more of that supply. This domestic commercial media is also very responsible and capable of producing high-quality information, and it is very important that citizens then have a number of options that they can compare and which, on the other hand, provide information, but reliable information, from different sources. Well, it is widely known that the economic situation in commercial media is not so strong, and that is why Mr Pitko has already mentioned this, namely that the entry of Google and Facebooks and the like into this media market is a significant eat-up of the advertising market from these commercial companies. This is certainly something on which taxation and other issues will at some point have to be resolved at least at European Union level. Then, of course, there is the fact that from time to time there is a certain confrontation between commercial media and Yle, which, in part, is probably a bit of an emergency cry about what that position is. We must always remember, when dealing with the border fence, that citizens' right to information is number one, and the second is that we will then be able to organise this system so that both Yle and the commercial media will be able to cope with this system. Our system works in such a way that if Yle introduces a new task in social media or elsewhere, it requires that the Board of Directors make a separate decision about it, so that we assess its impact on the media market as a whole, and it is extremely important that we play this game together. Yle needs commercial media, commercial media Yle, and Finns need both.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u114	Mr President! The chairman of the Management Board, Mr Satonen, spoke very wisely and has given these matters some thought. I'll share his thoughts completely. I would like to add to this that, while we are currently in serious difficulties with the AV sector, the purchases that are made by: Yle will also support Finnish employment in this highly labour-intensive AV sector. There are not so much dividends, profits, but everything goes to the people working in this field — from the voters and the lightmen to the people, actors and the whole of the various productions. This is extremely important to be aware of too. Then, President, I would like to mention that access to the content of the Yle Arena currently abroad is absolutely top-notch. In fact, Yle implemented the EU Regulation on portability, and all the content of the Arena is now open for use by travellers in the EU and permanently resident in Finland on all devices, using the Yle ID. This is absolutely amazing, that is, wherever a Finnish goes in the EU, so a Finnish can trust that Yle’s news and other content, for example, will be available to him.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u115	Mr President! In the debate I raised all the good things about this report that are now being discussed here, namely the accessibility and trust of YLE and independent action and the quality of content production. I can see that the committee has raised two points in its own report, some of which I would like to say in terms of development: For example, these regional deliveries: I attach great importance to their role, especially when we see how the media is currently focusing on larger and larger units. I am not quite sure whether the relevance of regional supply has been recognised and shared to the very end. For example, Yle could have played a regional role in this corona epidemic because, regionally, we are constantly monitoring the situation and trying to find out in the regions what measures should be taken. Yle has followed this, but we have not seen a systematic, conscious role. For example, we could have made better use of these regional supplies. The second point is that these services are for special groups: I said, in the referral debate, that the services of the Yle Children's Arena from earth to heaven areena services. But back then there was feedback on senior citizens, and I myself am raising the feedback that I have received. Could we have a similar type of entity that would have been aimed precisely then at the other end of the population as are now the services of the Children's Arena for children? For example, the proportion of health information: many people need more understanding about their health, how they can improve it themselves and look for it in the media — these could be collected. Music is what a lot of people need more. Congressman Asell spoke well about this exercise here. In particular, as physical activity grows in importance, for example, to keep muscles strong, and various programs to support physical activity could be part of such a whole. Similarly, technical aid — many people today need a great deal of support in the field of information technology. That perhaps there is still something to be developed there, although many things are already very well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-05-ps-140.u116	Mr President! These traditional media challenges, which have been raised in these previous speeches, are indeed issues which must also be deepened by our legislators, especially as we know that commercial media revenues have fallen sharply and thus the number of journalists has decreased. Statistically, this decline in the number of journalists is reflected, especially in local newspapers and regional deliveries, in their decline. Of course, this is extremely sad for local news and also for local identities, because these magazines produce high-quality content and news of particular interest to local people. Indeed, this flow of advertising revenue into the network is the reason, at least the main reason for this development. In particular, it has been directed at international media, and the Finnish online content has not been able to catch up with these revenues. It is sometimes discussed whether Yle is the reason why local commercial media has lost revenue and has lost readers, but I do not believe that Yle can be a threat to local delivery, but rather that from the consumer's point of view there is wealth that we have more media locally than just that one commercial media, that county newspaper there. In this way, interest in regional news activities will also remain high. From the consumer's point of view, this plurality is extremely important. In this report, the Committee has therefore considered the importance of these regional supplies to be important. I myself have enjoyed watching other regional news in particular. It is also an interesting way to see a piece from all over Finland when you look at all these regional news in a row.
