ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u1	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u2	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u3	Mr President! When dealing with the closure of restaurants, both the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs required that restaurant closures be compensated for income losses due to exceptional circumstances. But what did the government do? Distributed millions of euros through Business Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u8	Mr President! As the questioner well knows, we have come to this situation very quickly with regard to this corona crisis. A month ago, a government decision was made to use the two elements that we already had, ely centres and Business Finland, as ways of distributing money. Through them, funding began to be made available. Then, at the same time, we must remember: both have existing legislation. We cannot demand that the present officials act contrary to the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u14	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. It is already known in advance that at least almost all the questions relate to this corona crisis in one way or another, i.e. now ask these supplementary questions also for other supplementary questions caused by the corona. Then I'll take advantage of that list.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u15	Mr President! In addition to allocating aid to consultants, it has also proved to be a problem that aid has been allocated to firms in the drawers and to companies that have not submitted their financial statements to the business register for years. Information has also been provided on consultants who make aid applications for payment on behalf of other entrepreneurs — all of which have gone through. I would like to ask Minister Lintilä: how have you ensured that subsidies are not paid to companies that do not have real business or to projects of a seemingly development nature?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u16	Mr President! I trust that both Business Finland and Ely will carry out the audit, but I have also announced that the internal investigation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs will also carry out audits on the financing of Business Finland. Somehow it feels like some companies think that you can just get that money and if you can get it, that's good. That is not the case, because business Finland, for example, first accounts for 70 per cent of it. After that, we will see how the project has progressed, see the supporting documents, see that the money has moved there, and if not, that money will be taken away, the obligation to return. If there is a project, a project that has nothing used, everything will be returned to Business Finland. I thought it was kind of grotesque that I saw some story that in a major company the manager announced that well, we could donate it to charity. No, it can't. He's going to return it to Business Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u17	Mr. Speaker! According to the proverb, he is not a fool who asks, but he who pays. Contributions worth EUR 100,000 have been requested from taxpayers and paid by someone with an unprecedented amount of frivolity. Of course, you, the government, do not take responsibility and the officials do not take responsibility — are they even allowed to be criticised in times of crisis? Is there a government in this country anymore when they say no one is responsible?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u24	Mr President! Firstly, Mr Tavio, we have not admitted to anyone, the government has not granted anyone — either Business Finland or Ely. Well, then, if we move forward, you said that hundreds of thousands will be granted to everyone. There the majority, more than four thousand of the six thousand that have been allocated, are less than EUR 10000, which is to say, the majority of them are targeted specifically at the most vulnerable there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u29	Mr President! We understand very well that the government is in a difficult state. On the one hand, rapid action is required, because in many SMEs there is an acute emergency, but, on the other hand, the rapid processing of a huge number of applications leads to a laxity of criteria and controls. Sadly, it is the fact of life that every time there is poorly controlled public money in the distribution, there are also unscrupulous types in the line of arms. This has been seen both in business subsidies and in the procurement of protective equipment and also in the asylum scam that was announced yesterday. As Congressman Tavio said, the stupid one is not the one who asks, but the one who believes in fairy tales and stories. However, it is not only about money and its adequacy, but also about whether Finland is a kleptocracy in the eyes of the citizens, where the most arrogant people are pouting public money in their pockets. How does the government intend to ensure that aid decisions will continue to be timely and fair, i.e. to companies in temporary difficulties as a result of the interest rate? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u30	Mr President! As everyone well knows, we have made this move extremely quickly, and it is clear that the legislation that exists does not correspond to the situation that exists today. We also need to understand this, and that is why I want to bring in a regulation that can mitigate it so that we can better target it. Then, on the other hand, we have about 40,000 applications currently on the side of Business Finland and Ely. It's a completely exceptional situation. So the speed of the solution is between 10 and 20 times that of normal life. So at this point, I would like to thank those who are doing the sacred work of everyday life, and they are trying to do it to the best of their ability,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u31	Mr President! Here are some messages from entrepreneurs: “We are desperate. We tried to apply for support from Business Finland and the Ely Centre. Our application has been rejected. He said we were in trouble before the crisis,” he said. ‘But we do not have any payment disruptions or taxbacks,and even this year the result is At the same time, we read in the papers how massive subsidies have been distributed to bankrupt mature and zero-turnover companies. How is all this possible?” And these are the messages we're all getting. So I ask you, Minister Lintilä: why did the government not decide on the terms of the aid immediately so that aid would go to those most affected by the corona crisis? Among other things, the Coalition Party proposed the return of early-year alves to entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, with these current government measures, the number counting has started for many entrepreneurs for the last time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u32	Mr President! The fact that the company has not had any income in the previous year can tell, for example, about the situation of the start-up company. It's very different. And then I can say at this point that, as everyone here knows, ministers do not take a stand on individual cases — not on the social side, not on the business side. Yes, our starting point is that those companies that have been on a sound footing before the corona crisis are trying to save them, but this situation is becoming increasingly difficult. Of course we'll have interpretations. We certainly have different situations to assess, such as whether the consideration of leasing charges there has been properly taken into account. This is a very important one to go through. We have different groups that are kind of like intermissioners. We go through these all the time to see if the Ely is on the side, whether Business Finland is on the side. But I'm still reminding you,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u33	Mr President! Already in March, the Coalition Party published a comprehensive crisis package to save Finnish companies and jobs. We proposed, among other things, the refund of VAT and excise duties paid in the early part of the year, and the temporary abolition of the employer's contribution to companies that hold on to their employees. The actions of our crisis package would have been targeted more effectively and fairly at the most vulnerable entrepreneurs. These measures would have saved more businesses and jobs. The inefficiencies and injustices of government business subsidies must now be remedied. Minister Lintilä, are you prepared to use the coalition crisis package to save Finnish businesses and jobs?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u34	Mr President! Yes, there are all the possible ways on the board's desk at the moment, but I would like to stress and repeat why they have left: these were the fastest. I can only imagine what debate would take place in this Chamber if we had not been able to move on our fastest financial channels. I would also remind you that much of that support has been directed towards those small entrepreneurs, the self-employed, and hence the extremely important points, but this is not, of course, perfect. Of course we have to improve this. Tomorrow we will have the next government negotiation on corporate subsidies, and we will certainly be looking for new models that will then possibly complement these existing ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u35	Mr President! So you, the government and the ministers, have deliberately made these choices for the distribution of interest subsidies. These were discussed by Parliament and we raised concerns about the fact that the models chosen are rigid in the way you have implemented them. We already said then that the requirements for aid go to the wrong places. Entrepreneurs also criticised the search criteria for absurdity and excesses, which called for a reorientation, wider development needs and the development of subcontracting networks, and then the exclusion was that the grant could not be granted for the normal operation of the company. You, Mr Lintilä, replied in Parliament on 2.4. that Business Finland should interpret broadly. What did you mean by that? We can't do that in our system, and Business Finland didn't.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u36	Mr President! Of course, it would be interesting to hear how the drafts of the convention would have been technically carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u39	Mr President! Minister Lintilä, you are talking about the procedure for technical implementation of the Convention. We have proposed a method of implementation, and that would be the return of VAT paid at the beginning of the year, for example, with the help of banks. There would also be no security problem similar to that of any other procedure. Banks also know their customers, so it would be logical to act in this way, as if banks were to pre-pay them and then get the money from the government later. Mr President! I would also like to mention the restaurant and accommodation sector, because it was precisely in the reports of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that this closure should only take place on condition that they are supported. However, now that we look at the grants provided by Business Finland, they are shining by their absence. Restaurants and accommodations have not received them. Wouldn't it be logical now if we went to this VAT refund?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u40	Mr President! I mean, basically, I like the way. The refund of VAT and the repayment of advance taxes is a tax liability then. But then you have to remember one thing: it's targeting everyone again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u45	Mr President! It is clear that global crises will increase global debt-taking. Finland’s own debt-taking is likely to be around EUR 15 to 20 billion. However, under the pretext of this crisis in the euro area, the aim is also to increase solidarity on debts and to create new proposals such as the Unemployment Insurance Fund, which do not fall within the competence of the EU in terms of content and which are very problematic from the point of view of national budgetary sovereignty. After the Eurogroup, Minister of Finance Kulmuni rejoiced that this common debt did not come in the form of corona bonds, but at the same time Finland committed itself to joint and several guarantees, of which the Ministry of Finance's own notes indicate that the total amount of guarantees is likely to rise to billions, not to some of the hundreds of millions that have been made public here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u46	Mr President! Europe as a whole and the world as a whole is in a very difficult situation as a result of the corona virus, and it is quite clear that there is also a need to discuss how to get out and out of it at European tables. Then, of course, it is also a question of the economic options that each country can do. It is important for this government that we take care of the stability of the euro area, and it is important for that government that each country also has its own responsibility for economic policy. If we talk about the issues that are now being promoted through the Employment Fund or the European Stability Mechanism, of course, Finland is always a constructive part of those tables, but our constitution and Parliament's budgetary sovereignty require that there must always be precision and precision to what we are going to go into. Although the guarantee liabilities from the Employment Fund are currently circulating in hundreds of millions,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u47	Mr President! Travel agencies are glue that connects all different tourism sectors, transport companies, hotels, programme service companies and destinations. Restaurants, events and shops also benefit from travel agency activities. International travel depends on travel agencies. About 60 to 75 per cent of Finnair’s ticket sales are made through travel agents. A large part of the sales of shipping companies is also made through travel agencies. The share of foreign travel in consumption is around 2.3 billion. The sector is very technologically oriented, so there are also beneficiaries there. Mr President! So I ask the Minister: now that restaurant owners will surely at some point receive targeted assistance when their restaurant is closed, and I hope that it is big enough, is something planned for travel agencies because the borders are closed and their turnover is zero?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u48	Mr President! I would recall that at some point at the beginning of this corona crisis I warned that no particular area would be raised above others, because unfortunately this repetition will come. After all, we started by seeing that the tourism sector was going to suffer hard. After that, own decisions were made that affected the restaurant side, where the Parliament has put the entries. Unfortunately, however, today it is easier to find those sectors that are not affected by this than those affected by it. In other words, I would like, and I would like, that when you look for and build models, those models are such that they can be replicated in different sectors. In fact, it is quite surprising how far and how different sectors this will have an economic impact, and my own view is that this will have an unfortunate long-term impact.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u49	Mr President! You are constantly shifting responsibility elsewhere in the government and failing in the case of big, important entities. In the case of people returning to Finland by air from abroad, they screwed up right from the start. For a couple of weeks, thousands of passengers from the epidemic areas were flown to different parts of Finland to infect others. This failure of the beginning is a key reason for the current situation. Next was the purchase of masks, where millions and millions of tax dollars have been lost. The last one was one-and-a-half billion business subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u50	For many ministers — the Prime Minister’s deputy, my Kulmun.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u51	Mr President! It is quite clear that when Finland is in the midst of such a crisis, yes, of course, mistakes will also happen, and they are also worth openly acknowledging and admitting,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u56	Mr President! In this way, it must be pointed out from the opposition that business Finland is only a tool — you, Mr Government, define the rules on which and why money is distributed. You would have had a great deal of time to change those regulations or even laws, which are related to this money that Business Finland distributes. With regard to the refund of VAT or the advance repayment of corporation tax, this is not a loan. It can be regulated at a later stage, to what extent the company will be forgiven and to what extent the company will be asked for the money back. That would have prevented a circus like this. But the real question is for Minister Leppa. - Is he here?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u58	Mr President! There's a big problem with seasonal workers. You don't get over it. You don't get around it. The operating models familiar to familiar workers on farms cannot necessarily be followed this spring, at least in this early spring, because workers simply cannot be obtained. The Government has been very active in this, and we are always in dialogue with the countries from which these seasonal workers have come to Finland. Ukraine in particular is one of them significant. But when the borders are closed everywhere in the world, they are also closed in Ukraine, and that is why we need all the policies that we have had at the government all along, both for the Foreign Minister and for the entire management of foreign policy, to get these people to come here. We now have that quota of about 1500 that we are looking for. Today should be the first plane from there, if it gets out, with these workers. If it doesn't get out, unfortunately, we can't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u59	Mr President! This corona pandemic is hitting Finnish companies and workers with a very hard hand, and it is important that they are not left alone in this situation. But there are not many examples of what has been seen in public in recent days that can be understood by common sense, and that is why it is good that the Minister has announced that he will launch these studies and has also announced that these criteria will now be corrected. We fully support this work. Mr President! Now that we are offering this refund of VAT at the beginning of the year as a magic method, we must remember that no form of support is such that it would be completely targeted. For example, the tourism and restaurant sector, which has suffered most in the early part of the year, represents only one per cent of these VAT payments, whereas construction, which by no means has suffered so much, represents ten per cent. Have you, the Coalition Party, thought this through?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u63	Mr President! Before answering Mr Lindtman's question, I now have to comment on Mr Eestilä's question. The directive does not allow the alms to be forgiven, which means that we are not in a position to regulate it at national level, and advances can already be applied for. So this sort of small correction now for that collection model. Well, then, Mr Lindtman, this is very good. I believe that this must be the objective. You have to keep it clear all the time, what we're worried about. We are concerned about the Finnish entrepreneur who has been in this crisis and about the jobs created by the Finnish entrepreneur. We are concerned about entrepreneurs and jobs. Whether it can be written in the setting,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u64	Mr President! In order to control the corona virus, a person suspected or exposed to the virus must have access to the test. For a long time the Centre has been proposing a substantial increase in testing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u69	Mr President! 71,000 samples have been tested in Finland so far, and just as you have just witnessed strongly, we also assume in our current test strategy that we aim for the 10,000 samples. At the moment, we can already test more than 5,000 samples a day. You referred to the fact that it does not happen every day, and I have specifically said that it is unfortunate that if the capacity is already this high, why it is not used every day. We have fewer patients in hospital and fewer patients in intensive care, but of course the difficulty in the field at the moment is that when the flu season is beginning to be over, people will of course also have fewer symptoms in that field, and so people have not sought the same treatment as before.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u70	Mr President! Mr Kiuru, we must take a position on this number of tests. You said you'd be able to test 2300 tests a day. Soon after that you already talked about 4000 or 5,000 tests, and now you have been talking about 10,000 for a very long time together with Pekonen. Not once have you, according to the average, reached 2000 when, in the long run, these are added together. Now I'm gonna ask you: Where's the minister's order coming from? Why are these tests not carried out even though capacity has been available for a long time? I am concerned that, when this hybrid model has been chosen, where restrictions are lifted and at the same time promised that tests will be increased and traced back to these diseases, how this progresses. Now I am concerned that, when restrictions are lifted, for example with regard to students going to school, is there not a risk that the disease will spread again if the number and tracing of tests is not up to date? What are you doing about this before these restrictions are lifted?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u71	Mr President! There were some inaccuracies there, but I'm leaving the big picture now. We need to get this test capacity up. At the time when this was started, it was assumed that we had no test at all. Now the test has been built and it is in use.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u74	Mr President! Many students' lives changed once and for all when the schools closed their doors and the studies went online. The situation is distressing in many ways: there are no summer jobs, and students worry about future student choices when corona safety requires giving up large test halls — the crisis is therefore causing a lot of stress and anxiety. In many ways, the students were tough before the corona. According to a medical report by college students, about one in three have suffered from stress, fatigue and anxiety, and about one in ten suffer from depression. According to the school health survey, 40% of high school students — even more than half of them — have been concerned about their mental health in the past year. Half of this group would have needed help, but they have not received help for one reason or another. The crisis is now challenging the provision of mental health services in a completely new, corona-safe way, while the need for services is increasing. So I ask Minister Kiuru on student mental health day: How will this need be answered? How are students’ mental health supported in a corona crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u75	Mr President! Although the Act on Preparedness is in place and allows for a deviation from urgent care in the form of a treatment guarantee, it does not mean that human health can be jeopardised. In this respect, the existing legislation binds operators. Therefore, the situation is not that people are not entitled to these services when the need is genuinely severe. In other words, even as a result of the corona crisis and the possible threat from it, there is no way to put human health at risk. In this respect, all current operators are bound by the fact that mental health must also be treated, even in the midst of this crisis. Well, the bigger question is, it's a bit of a squeeze, isn't it? After all, it is quite clear that the crisis that we are experiencing is exacerbating everyone's point of view. How, in this situation, can we respond to the enormous need this crisis is creating?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u76	Mr President! First of all, Minister Lintilä, when you said that this return of alves would possibly go against EU rules, I can assure you that this distribution of aid now goes a little to every address under normal conditions against EU rules. This isn't normal. Secondly, Mr Lindtman said that this return of alves would go to everyone. After all, our logic is not precisely that that money should be returned to everyone. Firstly, it would only be made on application, and secondly, because it would initially be a tax debt, it would in principle reduce the liability, which would also allow it to be used as a means test, for which companies and industries these refunds will be made, and then, in particular, when they are reimbursed, if they are compensated, this would in particular be the case with regard to the service sectors that are now affected by the crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u79	Mr President! This consumption of protective equipment is currently very high in Finland, and these stocks must now be replenished through this epidemic both on the ground and at the Security of Supply Centre. In his question, Mr Lepomäki asked where these protective equipment can be sold, and the Security of Supply Centre, for which the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is responsible, is the body that will then acquire these nationally centrally at the moment, but still, through our normal procurement channels, the hospital districts, municipalities and private operators can acquire these protective equipment, as they do under normal conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u81	Mr President! The public's sense of justice does not allow large sums of business aid to be distributed to companies that do not need to be rescued, or even to representatives of the People's Republic of Finland. [JaniMäkeläarvo]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u85	I would like to see examples used, whether it is people or companies, not so to speak, but rather the principles, the phenomena themselves, not the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u86	Mr President! I said earlier that everyone in this Chamber knows that no minister is going to comment on individual cases, whether it be business or social, and neither am I, as the President has just said. The fact that no aid would be given to a company that has the term cashier’s condition would be rather strange in a situation where, however, the basic task of Business Finland and Ely is development, business development. It cannot be that aid is only given to companies with zero cashiers. There are companies who are in good condition and who want to do development work. We will not come out of this crisis with anything other than emerging companies, but we must support them across this gap, over this crisis,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u87	Irade the Talman! First of all, Finland has been exceptionally successful in controlling the disease. And for that, thank you to the government. But as far as these subsidies are concerned, we chose the one that was quickly available. It is quite clear that Business Finland is not ideal for strengthening working capital. It is discretionary, support for development, for projects, and it is now clear, of course, that consideration has not always been optimal. But even the return of alves is not an ideal solution. It's going to everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u90	Mr President! Mr Adlercreutz raises a point which has been jointly identified here in the reports of the Economic Committee and the Constitutional Committee when these restrictions on the restaurant sector were made, that this should be reasonably replaced by the catering industry, and that means must be found. At the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, we have gone immediately to look for them and prepare for this entity. I have been going through these models in the Ministry, and this is on the board of the government at the moment, and we are looking for a common solution, which is the surest way to ensure that support goes to the right place, that is, to those who have suffered from this closure. Secondly, I think it is also good to bear in mind that these subsidies must also strengthen the fact that we are employed. The restaurant sector is a low-wage sector, and we have seen,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u91	Mr President! Indeed, it is perhaps a good thing that the paint law is coming into force, because a Member of the Left Alliance even paints businesses here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u94	Mr President! Business Finland operators are not subject to me by themselves. Business Finland has its own internal guidelines. The starting point is that healthy businesses will be rescued. It's the state of will that's been sought. But now I am still emphasising the fact that now we are looking very hard for Business Finland and the Elys on the stick: certainly there have been mistakes, certainly, but I said at some point at the beginning that now the fire department comes first and let the court come after that. Now this court has come surprisingly quickly, but I think that if the house is on fire, it is better to use existing taps than start making new plumbing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u98	Mr President! Especially when it comes to such a serious crisis, of course, we would all hope that the country's government will succeed at such a time. As a responsible opposition, we have been concerned that there have been a number of shortcomings in preparedness and management: Helsinki Airport, insufficient protective equipment, trades at the Security of Supply Centre, joint procurement by the EU, of which Finland was the only one left out, and now these business subsidies. Minister Lintilä, you have been aware of the criteria for Business Finland's support from the outset, and we have been concerned about them from the outset, and you, Minister Lintilä, have now launched an audit of Business Finland's operations. I would like to ask: do you see any reason to examine your own activities as well, and who is responsible for all this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u100	Mr President! Yes, I look at my own activities every day.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u103	President! Question about school meals: In many families with schoolchildren, exceptional circumstances, restrictions and isolation at home have brought about a new situation. Distance schooling is fairly good in many families, but there are many families where there are also many challenges. One of the most important, now that unemployment and lay-offs have increased, is the economic situation of families and thus the possibility of providing adequate and nutritious food for schoolchildren. Versatile and high-quality food is a very important part of the child’s overall development. School meals are the right of the child, and families in Finland appreciate this. However, there are now a wide variety of ways of dealing with this one basic issue in municipalities and cities. Some municipalities have done well, some of them still have room for improvement. I ask Minister Andersson: has the Ministry of Education clearly instructed municipalities that schoolchildren are entitled to school food in this exceptional situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u104	Mr President! The questioner draws attention to an extremely important issue. Free school food plays an enormous role in the well-being of children and young people, and it is also one of the cornerstones of our Finnish welfare state. In accordance with the current restriction regulation, municipalities must organise school meals for all pupils participating in contact education and, in addition, organise school meals for pupils in remote education to the extent and means of delivery that are possible under the circumstances, and this has been the line all the time. About half of the municipalities currently organise school meals for all willing students, and in addition, about a quarter of the municipalities, on top of this, organise on a need-based basis for pupils in remote education. I have now given myself a strong recommendation that in all municipalities must now get this school food distribution started so that in all municipalities there has been at least this kind of needs assessment,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u105	Mr President! In order to deal with the interest rate crisis, close cooperation between all Finnish actors is needed. For example, close cooperation between the public and private is needed in testing, procurement of protective equipment and the procurement and manufacture of intensive care equipment. In this mask acquisition there have been fortune seekers on the move, but above all honest Finnish companies and entrepreneurs who have responded, for example, to the President of the Republic's appeal to business. The industry has responded to the call, but no orders have been received. I would like to ask the Minister in charge: is there a need for the business sector's efforts to obtain and manufacture protective equipment and breathing machines, or are these matters in order?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u106	Mr President! Representative Sipilä raised the question of these manufacturers and how to get these masks to transport and order them. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is responsible for ordering the quantities, the items that have now been channelled through the Emergency Supply Agency in this pandemic situation, i.e. the Supply Security Agency has then been the supplier who has acquired them using the channels that have been available on the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u107	Mr President! Mr Kiuru said that it must be blackmailing, and do you know that it is blackmailing in the opposition and in the people? You use the power of decision of the entire people, you use the tax resources. The answer to every question is that I do not know, I do not remember, it has been changed later or we are going to look into it. I will even look at myself, says Minister Lintilä, but I did not hear the conclusion, except that ‘I am satisfied with myself’. You said about a month ago about these company subsidies that we now need a fire brigade, let the court come later. Well, the fire department stayed on the road, and there's hardly any money in the account when the police are already there. I cannot understand that no one is taking responsibility, will not tell us when these changes will take place. From here, the representatives of the government parties are making proposals that you can change the regulation, that you can do it and that. Why didn't you do that? Why are you fumbling people and spectators now? I can't understand this. I ask you, Minister Lintilä: when you took the conscious risk that the police and the court will come in due course,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u108	Mr President! I think this is where everyone's taken responsibility, and that's how it's going to be. You do it in the opposition, we do it in the government. You said you haven't received any clear answers. I am very sorry if any of my answers have remained unclear to you. I'll be happy to clarify them in that corridor later.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u114	Mr President! The inadequacy of protective equipment has been a real tragedy. In addition to international procurement, it is indeed invaluable that Finnish companies have started producing them, and thank you for that. The adequacy of protective equipment is also linked to the guidance given by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which has been unfortunately obstinate. On the worst day three conflicting instructions were given to the municipalities. The situation in the field is still inadequate. Doctors have estimated that only 69% of hospitals have adequate shelters. On the other hand, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities estimates that home care visits would require about 3 million masks a month and another in nursing homes. Removing restrictions can also mean a greater need for shelters among citizens. We have heard that in Germany, Austria and elsewhere we are already going in these directions, that people will be more equipped. Have we now taken sufficient action in the field of international procurement, domestic production and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs guidelines that we can count on the situation to recover and the protections to be sufficient? We cannot only refer here to the Security of Supply Agency,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u115	Mr President! Perhaps it is also worth pointing out at this start that Minister Kiuru is responsible for the protection of social and health care equipment and related instructions in exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u116	Irade the Talman! Finland har i likhet med till exempel Singapore och Norge planer på att utveckla en mobilapplikation som på frivillig bass kan spåra coronavirusets smittokedja. Syftet är att komlettera hybridstrategistin, testa, spåra, isolera och skota om.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u117	Mr President! Yesterday, both parliamentary groups and the government discussed whether we could make new tools available for this infection tracking work, which aims to extensively comb out the contacts that have been in contact with coronavirus, and thus get his contacts mapped out so that people can be quarantined. This philosophy of testing and tracing, which then leads to this isolation and treatment under the Act on communicable diseases, is already the current Act on communicable diseases, but the question of how to improve it with new instruments is whether we can also learn from the experiences of other countries. There has now been a lot of thinking around the world that these tools of modern digital society could also be put in place,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u118	Minister Harakka is a close complement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u119	Mr President! Indeed, as Minister Kiuru said there, work has been started in several European countries to develop such an application, and Finland is at the forefront of creating a national solution that could be available throughout Europe with minor changes. Instead of scoring, I may dare to advertise Finnish IT companies who have taken the initiative to seek such voluntary, data protection, information security-based solutions as citizens' initiatives. It would then mean that no one would give out any information without their own voluntary consent before meeting with the health authorities, so that it could then be shared if someone close to us was recently exposed, and then we would get those asymptomatic people quickly tested. This would be useful not only to get out of this current situation, but also if and when the second wave arrives in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u120	The last question to the whole debate-maker, Mrs Nieme.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u121	Mr President! The risk of abuse is also evident if the aid is applied for by a group of companies with several companies belonging to the same owners or background persons. These companies can easily bill each other and the subsidies go into the pockets of entrepreneurs — and again without a real development project. Nor is it a condition that companies do not pay dividends for this year. I would like to ask Minister Lintilä: what measures has the government taken to prevent aid from being granted in the form of pseudo-development projects that entrepreneurs are doing to each other and put the money in their own pocket?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u122	Mr President! This is a very important and, in fact, quite interesting issue which Mr Niemi raises. This cross-billing of companies is such that they will dig themselves a hole in it, because it is still quite easy to verify in the checks that it does not have a genuine project but is found to be a cross-billing project. These are the kind that must then be caught during the inspection. I am sure this will be followed by the tax authorities, as the tax authorities will interpret it, because there will also be some kind of exchange of information there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-59.u123	The fourth item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the second plenary session to be held today. The Council of Presidents proposes that the following procedure be followed for the sole examination of the second draft amending budget: The debate will begin today at the plenary session on 23 April 2020 at 5.15 p.m., with a rapid part-session, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, the President may, in the order in which he is considering, issue replies. The amendments must be submitted to the Central Assembly no later than 6.15 p.m. on Thursday 23 April 2020. The relevant votes will take place on Friday 24 April 2020. To the extent that no amendments to the second amending budget have been proposed, it shall be deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
