ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the other committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the referral to the Committee on Finance, i.e. no later than 13.11.2020. The debate was closed and the debate was suspended at the plenary session on 13 October 2020. With the support of Mia Laiho Kai Mykkänen, the debate has put forward a motion of censure to Mr Krista Kiuru. The proposal has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u2	Before voting, the vote is open for 10 minutes. The representatives present at the beginning of the sitting shall vote first. Other representatives are invited to come to the Chamber through the back door through the State Hall. After voting in the Chamber, I would ask the representatives to leave the House's side doors and avoid meeting in the vicinity of the doors and in the round corridor. The progress of the vote can also be followed by an online transmission. I would also ask you to take account of the security gap during the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u3	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. After the Minister's presentation, the debate will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u4	Mr President, värderade talman! The government proposal proposes that the financing of a terrorist should be punishable as a new terrorist offence.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u5	Mr President! We must do everything in our power to prevent and punish terrorist acts, because this is an act aimed at causing death or serious bodily injury to a civilian or other person who is not involved in the conflict. Thank you for this preparation. However, I have two questions relating to cross-border crime and international crime. Is there any proceeding pending, for example, that such genocide proceedings such as those in Rwanda would be brought before the International Court of Justice? This event and its travel abroad cost Finland EUR 5.5 million, the most expensive trial in Finland's history. There is always this evidence problem, in terrorist offences, in genocides where the Court of Justice [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u6	Mr President! Finland must introduce a Danish model for the withdrawal of citizenship abroad in the case of an armed terrorist group or a twin citizen involved in similar activities. In the spring of 2019, Parliament approved an amendment allowing a double citizen to lose Finnish citizenship from a terrorist act, but the law would only apply to a crime committed in Finland under certain conditions. The legislation on the withdrawal of nationality cannot be applied retroactively. With regard to persons who have not been granted a residence permit in Finland, the decision to participate in terrorism abroad must lead to expulsion before returning to Finland. The law needs to be amended so that the expulsion decision can also apply to a person abroad without returning to Finland for the duration of the proceedings. Mr President! Finland shall introduce a border procedure in which an application for international protection can be processed and resolved, as appropriate, in the border zone or in its vicinity, without allowing a person to enter the country during the procedure. The change makes it more difficult to make use of the asylum system
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u7	Mr President! Just as Mr Meri, I would like to thank the government and the Minister for the rapid action they have taken on this issue. Terrorism in all its forms is a phenomenon that creates insecurity in society, and it is important that we here in Parliament also send out a clear message that the financing of terrorism or the pursuit of terrorist activities should not be carried out. Now, too, this attempt to finance and finance is becoming a criminal offence. Then there will be a wider package of this whole updating of terrorism legislation, and just as the Minister said, it will soon be back. Let me ask you more about this timetable: is the government also trying to speed up and prioritise this updating of the legislation on terrorism in its own work?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u8	Madam President! That's a good question about the schedule. I would like to pick up on the way in which this whole will then be assessed. As you said, this is done in stages, and it is of course important, but it sometimes comes to mind that this is such a patchwork of patchwork that the whole cannot always be coordinated and evaluated, and it may also be seen that this is why we do not have so many people convicted of terrorist offences, for example, because this whole is very complex. An important addition is, of course, that this funding will now come from this, but membership and membership of the group, public invitations, as you said, will then be the next steps. I believe that in this matter the parties are almost unanimous and want these things to move forward quickly, because things will only become more complicated. One question, too, is whether not only terrorists, but also domestic extremism should be assessed. Are they even comparable in some cases to terrorist organisations?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u9	Mr President! I'll take it from here, actually. We have created this legislation on terrorism, as I recall, in 2003, and the world has changed tremendously since then, but it has not. And in this respect, an overall reform of this legislation would probably be necessary, because we will not, for example, be able to get the people who have completed the Isis caliphat accused here, not to mention getting a conviction. I consider this legislation to be good in itself, but when it starts with the financing of terrorists and terrorist groups, but at the same time it is said that we do not know how we can belong to a terrorist group — as these reports of the working party also revealed — I wonder a little bit that this does not just end up being a dead letter of the law. And then the other thing is that when you leave out of this, among other things, Kela's money, i.e. their
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u10	Madam President! This is a useful and necessary legislative proposal, Minister, but, as has been shown in this debate, we in this House also want to speed up the next steps in order to ensure that our legislation on terrorist acts is sufficiently comprehensive. I personally draw attention to the same thing as the representative. S.H.I.E.L.D. here earlier: why not make a motion that if a double citizen commits a terrorist act abroad, he could be taken out of Finnish citizenship without having to come back to Finland? And the same question is really the case for foreign citizens who have a residence permit in Finland: could a residence permit be taken away if there are terrorist acts in the world without the person in question coming to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u11	Mr President! There seems to be a strong consensus in Parliament that the government has made the right progress in this regard. Of course, terrorism in all its forms is punishable and condemned to the greatest extent, and clear steps have now been taken to eradicate this funding and to punish it and the practice of terrorism in general. This is important and it is also important, as the Minister said, to try to update and speed up the process. It's all valuable. Perhaps, however, it is interesting to think about the word “terrorism ” as such for public use. In too many situations we also label terrorists, as long as there is an opponent in a particular situation. I'm not talking about Finland. I'm talking about this international phenomenon. Here's the precision. Terrorism, of course, means genuinely controlling with fear and terror. In other words, there is something shocking that is being done to try to get that political situation under control in one way or another. That's kind of the starting point. But the actions are most reprehensible, and it is great that the Finnish Government has now presented us with a proposal in this form which we can:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u12	Madam President! This proposal is indeed a welcome step in the right direction, but I also look forward to this overall reform and I hope that the Minister will tell us more about the timetable that when Parliament will then be able to deal with these next steps. The problem with these terrorist crimes is getting evidence. We have seen these trials, where it has been very difficult to prove that a person has committed these crimes, even serious accusations. Even if the men and women who worked in the Isis Caliphate here in Finland: we know that even if they were guilty of these very financial crimes, it is difficult to get that proof. This public invitation, which has been the activity of these Isis women on Facebook, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u13	Madam President! Of course, terrorism is mainly combated by international cooperation, but it is also important to bring our legislation into line with the needs that exist in this regard, and it is good that we have progressed and made good progress. I would like to ask in this connection that while we are actually making a budget here in Parliament, the organisations have an important role to play when it comes to preventing terrorism, that is to say, getting people out of these terrorist organisations or violent extremists before they do something about terrorism. During the last term of government, so-called "exit" funding was cut, but the government has now increased funding for this. So I ask the Minister: is this funding now at the right level? Anyone who wants to get rid of the extremist movement here in Finland can get the help they need?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u14	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for a good presentation. Indeed, I was two previous years in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and we were always patching up this legislation on terrorism. The overall reform is very welcome. This is a patchwork similar to the legislation on sexual offences, which, fortunately, is now being reformed with us. This government proposal is all right. These sanctions are big enough. Secret coercive measures can be used brilliantly, as well as data mining, because they are the key to bringing one of these cases to justice in the first place, and even now, if we get it there, we will have a good verdict. I would now like to highlight the fight against organised crime, because terrorism and organised crime often go hand in hand. I would ask you, Minister, to note that, although there is not a single word in the government programme about the fight against organised crime, you are raising it, because it also prevents terrorist acts. It's perfectly clear. And now I would like to ask, as many others here have asked: Criminal law and coercion laws are now all right, but how is this other legislation,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u15	Madam President! It is well-founded that Finland should clarify and supplement the provisions on terrorist offences in line with international recommendations. FATF has drawn attention several times to Finland’s legislation on terrorism, and even though it has been amended, Finland has still not been given much of the rules of the game. Our criminal law is not ready. It is clear that it requires development, clarification and must be made more predictable. In the state of justice, criminal law must comply with the principle of criminal law, i.e. be precise, and the subsequent convictions are therefore predictable and the penalty scales are equivalent to the value of criminal offences. But now there is a bit of an exciting idea in this system of ours, that the threat comes from outside, and we do have examples of the threat coming from within European families too: Norway's unfortunate example years back, and it is true that this summer has
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u16	Madam President! Stricter legislation on terrorism is particularly necessary in view of the changes that have taken place in recent years. Finland with the rest of Europe faces the threat of increased terrorism. This has been strongly influenced by large-scale humanitarian immigration towards Europe, which has brought dangerous religious extremism. The authorities must be aware of the people at risk of radicalisation, and they must monitor, for example, mosques that are known to support radicalisation. I would like to point out that the funding of the aid must also be strengthened, because it already has over 390 radicalised people in its monitoring, and everyone understands that with the current resources this will not be sufficiently comprehensive. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u17	Mr President! Terrorist action is based on the idea that a message is to be included in violence, and this definition includes a wide range of activities, both indigenous and international. There are two essential elements to this legislation: The first, in my opinion, is that this type of activity cannot be protected by weaker legislation in Finland compared to, for example, the Nordic countries or other countries. So with this performance, it's going to bring the level so high that you can't come here to hide and plan things. And then the second thing that has to do with this is that we now have the opportunity to look at these platforms in the long term so that everything that ultimately leads to a terrorist act — that is, a violent act involving a message — can now be done, and this is a step forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u18	Madam President! Many good speeches have been made here, and a few of them I draw attention to. First of all, I share the concern for this patchwork. Like many other legislations, it would now be important to look at the whole, and people here have already spoken — people who have been in the Committee on Legal Affairs for several years — that things have been going better all along, and I hope that we too will be able to move this issue forward during our period. We have already heard about this working group set up by the Ministry of Justice, which did a good job, but my concern is that the group did not make it a criminal offence to join a terrorist group or to be part of a group, and I think that this problem was well raised in this case for Isis mothers, which was the subject of public debate, and one might say that it would certainly be a step towards making this legislation more flexible. In addition to this, I believe that in future we should also think more closely about the definition of a terrorist organisation, how they can be defined more clearly — I understand that this is also challenging — and also domestic terrorist organisations. We also have problems at home here in Finland, and these too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u19	Madam President! The amendment of the provisions on financing terrorism is important and good speeches have been made here on how much this package should be extended, however, not to be in such a patchwork. In this context, I would also like to point out that, when we grant development aid funds, we should also ensure that they actually end up in action that benefits the citizens and, in particular, does not end up in terrorist action. For example, these funds, set up in 2008, which go through Veikkaus to the Palestinian Authority, have cost EUR 2.7 billion in total, that is, the money paid by the EU and its Member States, and it has also been found that, once that money has been made available to some organisations, they have, for example, financed their own terrorist activities. The EU has intervened in this, and some organisations are not being funded for the time being. But it is also a matter of concern that this money will be used to pay these martyrs and their families these tax money payments.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u20	Irade fru talman! Tack till regeringen och minister Henriksson för den goda presentationen och förslaget som är mycket väkommet, och som betyder att straffbestammelserna om finansiering av terrorism complexes så att finansiering av en terrorist criminaliseras som ett now brottt. Det föreslås bli straffbart att finansiera personer som gör sig skyldiga till brott som begåtts i terrorist syfte eller som medverkat i sådana. Det föreskrivna straffet föreslås vara fängelse i minst fyra månader och högst sex år. Straffskalan för finansiering av terroristgrupp föreslås också skärpas. Straffbestammelserna om finansiering av terroristgrupp föreslås bli ändrade så att skrivsättet för propisit motsvarar skrivsättet i strffbestammelserna om finansiering av terrorismm. Ändringarna har sin bakgrund i internationalella organizations bedömningar och Finlands terroristlagstiftning och i FN:s säkerhetsråds resolutioner. Förslaget är är är befogat och det är helt i enlighet med internationalella organizations recommenter. Det är bra att vi till den delen uppdaterar lagstiftningen. — Tack för det.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u21	Madam President! Terrorism is not a new phenomenon, but it certainly reached a new international level after the 2001 Twin Tower attack, and our legislation has also been adopted shortly thereafter. There is now broad support for this proposed law and, of course, I fully agree with it myself. It will be demanding to be very specific in this matter, and even after the laws are laid down, when we are faced with the situations in the courts where possible judgments will be given, the accuracy and the evidence and these things will certainly be very demanding. In conclusion, I would like to say, mainly on a symbolic level, that when former British Prime Minister Tony Blair was, at the time, the Interior Minister of the Shadow Government, he launched a very good idea: ‘wearetoughoncrimesbuttoughonthecausesofthecrimestoo’, ‘i.e.’we are in a relationship with the perpetrators of crime but the remnants
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u22	Madam President! Although this proposal is indeed based on the OECD's estimates and observations on Finland's legislation on terrorism and, on the one hand, the UN resolutions on the other, I am one of those colleagues who thinks that this is an extremely important step forward in this overall reform. I am thinking here of the fact that, in this context, neither this membership nor membership of the group have been criminalised, nor this invitation, then we will find it difficult to demonstrate how this financing relates to that terrorist crime, because it says here that the donor or collector, that is, the donor or collector of this funding, must have a certain purpose or consciousness. Yes, to prove that such awareness exists is extremely difficult if it is not criminalised by being part of the group itself. This leads precisely to the fact that, when there are various so-called auxiliary tasks, how will it be determined whether, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u23	Mr President! A very good debate, where there seems to be a broad consensus. I, too, am pressing the ministry for an even wider overall reform. The Coalition Party put forward a number of proposals to prevent terrorism and also to allow more detailed access to such cases, such as financing. Mr Huttunen gave a good speech on this criminalisation of belonging to a terrorist organisation. It is not a simple question, but I believe that if there is a broad will in Parliament, as it seems, it could also be promoted by the ministry. Can you, Mr Henriksson, tell us whether it is now intended to bring this into law, to criminalise membership of a terrorist organisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u24	Madam President! Finland's criminal legislation has a clear lack of funding and punishment for terrorism. It is not just a question of Finland's future compliance with international obligations, which, of course, Finland has been urged to do, but, above all, of ensuring the fight against crime which is very serious against people's lives, health and safety. It is quite clear that there is unanimity here. The proposal is therefore important, and the first issue must be the safety of the citizens. Penalty scales shall be equivalent to the penalty value of the act. As has already been said in a number of speeches, this is a challenging and complicated complex entity, which the Minister has also explained very well in his speech. Now that legislation is being reformed, I would like to ask the Minister: it has been noted that the resources of the authorities are also sufficient to change the legislation on a practical level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u25	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for his presentation, which is very important. The financing of terrorism must be more rigorously eradicated. Indeed, there is an urgent need for a more thorough overall reform of the fight against terrorism. In practice, Finland is more relaxed than many other European countries in terms of the coverage and rigour of legislation. Last December, Mr Kauma and I took a legislative initiative to criminalise the involvement of a terrorist organisation, and the proposal by the Ministry of Justice's working party subsequently presented the criminalisation of participation as a very limited one. According to this proposal, it would only be punishable to carry out the essential function of criminal activity. Will the government promote a more comprehensive way of criminalising the involvement of the terrorist group? There is a risk in the case of a limited criminalisation that the evidence problems remain, which are also the problem today. And have you worked out the alternative that criminalization will take place?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u26	Madam President! It is very important that we get this bill through quickly. After all, at the end of the last parliamentary term, we had these intelligence laws in force in the country, which provide the authorities with an excellent tool to study, among other things, the planning of terrorist activities. After all, there is all kinds of information circulating in the information networks, and now our authorities are in a position to investigate what is happening in the country and whether information is being sent to foreign organisations. But just as important now that funding is also being criminalised is how cooperation works. When, in my view, the core task is banks, financial institutions, what kind of cooperation is there between authorities and banks? Of course we have well-functioning systems in that direction too, but is this cooperation between banks and authorities working so that we can catch up with the money flows? In other words, if these financial flows are not caught, then financial traffic will continue. The money traffic continues, and nobody cares about anything. It's probably the most important thing to stop money traffic. Is this cooperation working?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u27	Madam President! The threat of terrorism in Finland is estimated to have increased to level 2/4. It's been there for a couple of years. The situation picture and field of action of terrorism have changed both in Finland and internationally. Conflict-affected tourism has strengthened networking and the ability and readiness to engage in violence, and it is important that the legislation on terrorism is also examined and tightened up — thank you for that. However, some comments on this bill. The criminalisation of belonging to a terrorist organisation has already been mentioned, and this proposal is becoming exhausted. It would be very important to include it, as well as the fact that, as regards those who were on a residence permit in Finland without citizenship, the sentence of participation in terrorism abroad should lead to expulsion even before returning to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u28	Mr President! Terrorism is a crime that seriously threatens the lives, health and safety of people and the functioning of society, and it is very important to combat it. In order to combat effectively, we need updates to our legislation, as has been said here in previous speeches. As the Minister said in his opening speech, there is a need for a comprehensive reform. It is now under way and will then be discussed in due course. I myself, as many of you have asked, would have asked about this timetable, but I think it is very good that we should be able to deal with such minor improvements without delay, so that this phenomenon can be effectively combated at this stage. It is also important to remember that Finland is the rule of law and that legislation on the fight against terrorism must also be adopted in accordance with this rule of law, which, in my opinion, is well achieved in this government's proposal. It is also essential to have a sufficiently clear and unambiguous definition of terrorist activity, as Mr Kiljunen also called for in his speech. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u29	Mr President! As many representatives have said here, the security environment in Finland has also changed significantly recently, and that is why we are today dealing with a single piece of legislation aimed at combating terrorism. Unfortunately, Finland has not escaped terrorist violence either: in 2017 Turku was Finland's first crime committed with this purpose. However, this law concerns the financing of terrorism. Mr Al-Taee made a good point about how our legislation should relate to the other Nordic countries so that offenders would not then look for loopholes in the laws of different countries. I would have asked Minister Henriksson: how do you, as Minister of Justice, see the whole thing now in our legislation, and what are the next steps we need to take?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u30	Madam President! This government proposal is needed and we really must support it. A number of speeches have therefore already shown that other legislative measures are still needed and urgently needed. A few speeches have already raised the Nordic countries, as Mr Salonen has just said, and I would like to ask specifically about cooperation with the Nordic countries. Magnus Ranstorp, a terrorist investigator at the Swedish National Defence College, has proposed harmonising the laws on terrorism in the Nordic countries. The harmonisation of legislation would send out a clear signal of the Nordic legal concept. I would like to ask: how much such coordination has been done?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u31	Mr President! The fight against terrorism and the tightening of legislation, for example, in the way the government has proposed here, are of course to be welcomed, but the question arises as to why we are back on the road again. Why do we implement some international recommendations and have not taken care of this matter from behind in Finland? In no way should Finland be less lax in legislation than our control countries in relation to terrorism. Finland must not attract terrorists to what kind of safe haven. We are at a very early stage when we are talking about laws, and the situation in Finland seems to be very bad in practice because we do not get the accused or convicted criminals through the laws that we can regulate. However, other countries will be able to deal with these issues. What did those other countries do differently than Finland? Should we learn from them? I also support the criminalisation of residence for terrorist purposes mentioned earlier in the debate and the loss of citizenship or residence permit as a consequence of terrorist activity. These are also things that should have been in force a long time ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u32	Madam President! This bill is necessary because terrorist offences are indeed fundamental functions of society and very serious crimes that endanger people's lives, health and safety. In the future, further consideration should also be given to the definition of a terrorist organisation in Finnish legislation, although it is challenging to draw clear boundaries. Like Mr Ovaska and Mr Huttunen, I would like to ask the Minister for Responsibility: would it be possible to find out what is going on in domestic extremists and whether they may be meeting the hallmarks of a terrorist organisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u33	Mr President! The world is changing, and the laws must be kept up to date, as has been said in several speeches. This is one good example of the fact that legislation is a very complex whole and the race between law and reality is eternal. The coalition here also calls for the criminalisation of belonging to a terrorist organisation, and that is extremely important, but perhaps you will remember, when you too have the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, that it is not very simple to legislate on it. The amendment of the legislation on the financing of terrorism is therefore not just about fulfilling international obligations; it is about the lives, health and safety of people. It is important to note and very important that the provisions are clear and that the penalty scale is adequate and acceptable. However, data protection and information exchange have become a challenge on many points. What's possibly the current situation there?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u34	Mr President! Of course, as many have said here, the necessary project will not really solve the basic problems that we have. It is known that the so-called Isis women and their children have been brought to Finland from the al-Hol camp and the supo clearly believes that these constitute a clear threat to Finland's security. However, we know that it is virtually impossible to find out what these women have done in recent years. We will never find out whether they have simply made food for their husbands and acted as givers or have participated in other activities. International research literature tells us that women have played an important role in jihadism and Isis. In practice, we do not have any means whatsoever to find out what individual women have done in Syria or in neighbouring areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u35	In this debate, we will take two more replies, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u36	Mr President! The legislative amendment now before us is, of course, important, but I myself am calling for full-scale reform in the fight against terrorism. I would like to draw attention, among other things, to the fact that there is also a law in the pipeline in which, apparently, a working group set up by the government is proposing that only the essential task of criminal activity within the framework of a terrorist organisation should be punished. The question arises as to what is essential. What, then, are the standards within the terrorist organisation that are acceptable? Mr Pelkonen highlighted the importance of Nordic cooperation on these issues. Participation and membership of a terrorist organisation has already been criminalised, for example, in Norway and Denmark, as well as in France and Canada. Mr President! I would now like to ask the Minister: what measures will Finland take to harmonise the legislation on terrorism with us, as it were with countries in a community of values?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u37	Mr President! As chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I promise that this will be handled well, as in all matters of the committee. But I will come back to this original question, and I will clarify it. So, as Mr Purra said, for example, about evidence problems in cross-border terrorist offences, genocide and this type of crime, Finnish authorities often have to travel, and this is a problem and also a resource problem. As I said, the Rwandan trial then cost taxpayers 5.5 million. The second question is these so-called catch compensations. These were some time ago Iraqi twins charged with mass murder, and they then received catch compensation over normal, multiple times. They both got over 200,000, which means Hyvinkää will give you a house of their own. I would have asked the Minister about this whole thing: What does this cost the taxpayers, the problem of proof, the fact that people often have to catch this type of crime, and then catch compensation? Have we thought about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u38	Secretary Henrikson, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u39	Mr President, värderade talman! First of all, thank you for the very good debate and for the fact that this issue, which is very important, is of interest and also for the fact that this proposal, which is now on the table, receives broad support. I think there is a consensus on this proposal itself that it is a good one. Now they kind of want to know what happens after this. A few answers. This is where Mr Meri first asked about these possibilities of international law. Now the situation is that international trials are a very difficult matter. After all, Finland cannot unilaterally impose anything, but must always take place on the basis of cooperation between the international community, and it then goes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it is true that the Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs has maintained these matters when it has had the opportunity, and these ideas have been raised. Unfortunately, no solution has been found. Then, as far as expulsion and citizenship are concerned, these questions are under the authority of Minister Ohio at the Ministry of the Interior. As far as Kela’s money is concerned with this government’s proposal, it does not define where the money comes from, but if the purpose is to finance the terrorist who is doing things, it is the main point here, and then it does not take a stand on whether the money comes from Kela or where it comes from. If there is a terrorist financing purpose, that is enough. Well, then many have called for the next steps. I would like to remind you that this is where the government has been working all the time. The previous government, in which the National Coalition Party and the True Finns were present, did not reach as far as this government has now achieved, even though measures were taken at that time that were good and necessary. [Leena Sea interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u40	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u41	We shall now proceed to the seventh reading of item 7 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u42	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u43	Mr President, värderade talman! At the beginning of May, the provisions of the enforcement cycle laying down the conditions for the reduction, limitation and suspension of enforcement of the enforcement procedure were provisionally amended by law. This temporary law shall remain in force until 31 December. The present proposal would extend the provisional law for six months to 30. until 1 April 21. Economic phenomena are usually reflected in the enforcement procedure with a delay. Businesses and natural persons generally have an economic buffer to cope with short-term economic decline. The application of the provisional law has been very successful. For example, in the early part of the year, the number of free months has been considerably higher than one year earlier, and the temporary law or other challenges posed by the corona epidemic have not significantly undermined the effectiveness of the enforcement procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u44	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for a concise presentation, and thank you to the government for this response to what has unfortunately also been created by the interest rate in this sector, as the number of debtors will certainly increase and the need for enforcement has unfortunately increased. All in all, this government proposal provided the basis for the fact that the creditors have also realised that it is better to look now than to repent and not to go out of nowhere, but to enable business, people's personal problems in this situation of interest rates, to be considered more important than the rapid start of this process of enforcement. The change that is now in force has already demonstrated its own capacity, as Mr Henriksson said in his own presentation. It is important for the Government to adopt measures designed to protect people from distress and to safeguard the functioning of society and the economy in the current interest rate situation. This government must be commended, and here in particular I would like to point out to Mr Henriksson that yesterday you have saved Mr Myllykoski for the whole month by telling him that the matter of default marking is now being prepared by the government. This is an important issue, and it is precisely the records of the government programme that we have in order to improve the rights and status of debtors. In this Chamber, with the efforts of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, it has already been approved so that it must be speeded up and prepared, and I am pleased to report on this yesterday. Of course, with regard to enforcement, it would be a very good idea to increase the protective component even further. Yesterday we had the debate, perhaps even a competition singing, who wants to raise it most, which is certainly political, of course, but it would be very important to make it work, and now perhaps we should discuss among the ministries what the employment impact is by raising the protective part. All work must be profitable, and that is the path, one path, that for those who have a way out of it, you have to make every effort to make it profitable. It is certainly the will of every Member of Parliament in this Parliament, regardless of the party. Only by dismantling and stepping up incentives will work pay off, and this is of particular importance to this society. I have no choice but to accept this very well. I do not know whether, for some reason, this is the six-month deadline for us to do this, or whether we should have had the courage to look further, but it is good that this step has been taken at this point. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u45	Madam President! This extension to the end of April of next year of the temporary law on the enforcement cycle is certainly in order and necessary, and it was good to hear that these free months have been granted there and indeed this legislation, which is a temporary one, has already been useful. However, just as Mrs Myllykoski pointed out, there are, of course, many different things to this whole, and, for example, the removal of the default marking she mentioned and, on the other hand, this lifting of the element of protection for enforcement is certainly one of the ways in which, for example, this element of incentive to accept work is improved and, of course, this positive credit register, for example, is more than one of the means in which this issue has its own contacts. When the minister is here, I would also like to ask whether, from the point of view of the ministry, there is any advantage in this calculation of the interest rates for quick-leases, whether there are still any results, and then now because of this interest rate, just because of this disease situation, whether, for example, these enforcement decisions or the delivery of them or any of these processes, have there been any particular difficulties, i.e., what could you say, from the point of view of the enforcement operation, this situation has seemed to have appeared. Mr President! Unfortunately, I have to move on to the second opportunity and I cannot remain to hear the Minister's answers, but perhaps I can still discuss them with him at some point. As such, an important and good legislative proposal to be taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u46	Mr President! The proposal is therefore about a temporary change in the enforcement cycle. The reduction, restriction and enforcement of enforcement could be postponed due to the interest rate until the end of April next year. I support this proposal. Interest will increase the number of people in enforcement, credit default labelling will increase, many citizens and businesses are in financial distress now. Since this is a state of emergency, it is not good for anyone to be cornered. The expert reports found that the position of the creditors was not substantially altered. The Guarantee Foundation and the Debt Advice Service warmly supported this proposal. There is one thing I am still concerned about, and since the Minister is here, I would like an answer to that. Is this the case, however, that the bailiffs still have the discretion to give these reliefs, that is, is it the bailiff who ultimately decides this and, if so, what if the bailiff decides that it is not? There has already been some feedback about this, that in this corona period many enforcement men are quite tight, and the plight is clear then that no freedom has been given to those in the enforcement process to try to clear up their own affairs. The fact that this extra time is actually coming now is very good. We can be grateful for this proposal, and it is good that the government takes this into account. It is now, indeed, until the end of April, and it may be that if the interest rate continues, the problems will still be quite great after April, then we really need to consider that people will still get on their feet, because it is in the interests of all parties concerned to be able to pay their debts. And, as I said earlier, these expert statements have also made it clear that the creditor's position remains and the enforcement does not go anywhere. At the end of the day, I would like to ask the Minister the same question that I asked and Mr Peltokangas also raised: these people in the recession of the 1990s were faced with debt problems, with enforcement, and often so that they were not the main architects themselves, but were victims of circumstances. They've been suffering for 30 years. It's corona time. Is there any sort of explanation, relief, or will we continue to remain silent? This is where every party and government can look in the mirror. I would like to see some changes in this for them, too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u47	Madam President! This is an extremely necessary proposal. Indeed, exceptional circumstances have weakened the situation for many companies and individuals and have led to a situation in which the economy is in a very unhappy state. And now that we do not know how long all of this will continue, you can understand that work must be done to avoid further deepening the plight of people. And I think it is very important that we take account of these human needs, especially in this completely unprecedented situation, and bring even a little relief to people's lives. I would have asked the Minister if the importance and continuation of this social credit has now been taken into account in the context of this social welfare system in the future, when it also comes to feedback, and what happens in these areas, where this has been exploited with great merit and intelligence — so that a good system in the new system of government pitfalls will not be lost, but, on the contrary, it will be possible to extend it to cover the whole country. And once in a while when the heart of those citizen feedbacks is written on its side, one wonders that perhaps even in this time and situation not all banks have come to terms with the need for negotiation and flexibility. For example, this week I received a message from that region of Lapland that the bank has started to tighten up old loans that the entrepreneur has been paying all along, but now it should pay more, larger items, even though times are worse and the interest rate is reducing customers all the time. The Bank’s President had also courageously said that ‘you will sell your house under guarantee, so that you will have to visit it’. And yet the person concerned has three underage children. In some ways, it is of the utmost importance that we stop driving people into a situation where there is a default mark or some kind of financial problem — when we may have already had almost 400,000 Finns at the turn of the year, and the figure is only growing — at least with regional measures. I do not believe that any bank is in such a bad state that it would require families to drive into the street, even though tourism and restaurant entrepreneurs are currently in a very difficult situation. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u48	Madam President! An important government proposal, and it is great that it has been brought here so quickly and will certainly get out of here as well. In this context, however, I would like to stress that when the Minister is present, the debate and the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the Government's annual report, which is also very strongly linked to this government's proposal, when we discussed reducing over-indebtedness and the resulting problems. There the committee stressed the need to speed up the positive credit register and shorten the retention periods for default data, and also reminded us of this corporate restructuring law or the whole project. So it's important to prioritize these. And as far as I can see, we could also import individual... It might be appropriate to easily tackle these problems, to have things dealt with quickly here too, because this interest rate is unfortunately going to make this situation even worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u49	Mr President! Thank you again to the Minister for a good and clear proposal. At the beginning of May 2020 a temporary change in the enforcement cycle was introduced which provided for a reduction, restriction and suspension of enforcement of the enforcement procedure due to the corona virus epidemic. The temporary change in the enforcement cycle is only valid until the end of this month. The proposal now to extend the provisional law by six months until the end of April 2021 is fully justified and supported. The corona virus has shown no sign of disappearance. We are still living in a very different situation. Many citizens have fallen into an economically challenging situation during the corona virus pandemic, but so have many entrepreneurs. Although we do not have a crystal ball in use here to predict how many will continue to fall into these economic difficulties, even if it does not exist, I still believe that it is likely that the number of customers in enforcement will not be reduced, on the contrary the trend will be increasing. As we know, these economic challenges in everyday life do not appear immediately but tend to occur with a delay. In order to respond to this potential growth and smooth handling, sufficient resources must be provided for enforcement agencies in the future. I think it is very important that the temporary change in the enforcement cycle should continue and ensure the survival of citizens and businesses in the face of the challenges posed by this epidemic. However, it is good to have a sensitive ear there, then, with the spring ears, in order to be able to react, if necessary, here in Parliament on a sufficiently fast schedule if the coronavirus situation is still poor. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u50	Mr President! In fact, the Committee on Legal Affairs has begun to discuss this government proposal, this follow-up by informal hearings last Friday, and this is actually the subject I would like to talk about. This proposal is good and well-founded, and we will look carefully at it despite the timetable. In fact, I would like the Minister to read — and I have raised this here before — an article by the chairman of the Legal Union and the Professor of Procedural Law, Tuula Linna, in the Journal of the Legal Union. Here he evaluates the situation when he was in the Legal Committee the last time he dealt with the previous law relating to the law on enforcement, which is now coming to an end in just a few minutes, that is to say at the end of this month. — Today we are in a referral debate, and tomorrow in committee we have the intention to get this report out of it. Everyone understands that these schedules are really challenging and need to deal with a very difficult situation. — — — — Here's where he tells you the expert's point of view. He explains that, due to the procedures of the Legal Committee, he received a draft opinion from the Board of Directors, which in practice gave him only a few hours to make this statement. And even on the basis of his observations, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights made further changes to it, which, even in this new proposal, have been extremely necessary to ensure that this legislation is good legislation, and that is what we are trying to do here. In fact, I would like to thank the committee once again, and perhaps here I wish the Ministry of Justice a small idea at heart. I take a quote from what he writes: ‘I feel that the Committee on Legal Affairs does not want to draw a line on the quality of legislation even in exceptional periods. Then we would rather stretch out and come up with new ways of working, so that, despite the urgency, the quality of the legislation remains good.” And yet he also notes that he has been pleased that this was introduced by legislative changes — I understand this as a thank-you to the ministry — so that, for example, we do not go by simple instructions. He states that ‘the Finnish State of Justice’. In order to achieve this, I humbly ask that we in the committee genuinely have time for these. I don't mean for weeks, but even those days. If there is anything else coming from there, I would ask that we have enough time to do good and good quality work. Thank you for this proposal, and tomorrow the report will probably be ready.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u51	Madam President! Now that you have been thanked, I must thank Mrs Kyllö for that good attention. And that there will be more impetus for this question, and indeed this possibility of social credit in this context of social welfare reform — whether there were 33 municipalities in Finland which are currently granting them, and 40% of citizens are in the area of social credit — is there, in that sense too, to take account of this particular reform of the payment default marking and its clarification. In other words, in the event of a request for social credit, the person will take the default mark for himself, precisely because it is no longer possible to borrow other than this social credit, and that is actually good, I hope. The termset could be developed at a time when, in that situation, a person resorts to social credit, rather than referring to a default mark, it is precisely a credit rating. It is good, therefore, that the Minister yesterday announced the progress of this positive credit register that these could then be coordinated, because it is unfortunate that a person is not looking for social credit because he is ashamed of the default marking and its exclusion from society — as humanisation and its further development are important, because quick levers are a very bad thing. But I have to say that if you have a low-income Finn in need of a small loan, that bank credit card is by no means an affordable option, but now on this 10% roof, the quick lever becomes even cheaper if it comes to a few hundred, which is needed to buy, for example, winter tires. If we go into the bank’s credit card system, which has annual payments and first payments, then they are more expensive than quick payments, and now, especially with this ceiling, it is very good. These things. But I have full credit with the ministry and the minister that these matters are being prepared with expertise and respect for the weaker person.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u52	The half-hour allotted for this matter will soon come to an end, but before the Minister's speech, Mr Koponen Ari, will be taken on board.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u53	Thank you, Madam Speaker! Mr Essayah raised an important issue here, which is these so-called quick levers. Unsecured consumer credit, or quick buys, presents far-reaching problems. In August, it was announced how many applications were submitted for gambling problems under 30 years of age. The bond arrangement of the Guarantee Foundation has almost doubled in January to July of this year from one year ago. In most cases, the debt amounts have increased even beyond the maximum amount of EUR 34000 allowed by the Guarantee Fund’s debt arrangement, as money for gambling can be obtained by means of quick credit. Although unsecured and high-interest loans are challenging regulatory targets, urgent legislative reforms are needed, as Parliament has required and the government has promised in its programme to take effective action to reduce over-indebtedness and related problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u54	Secretary Henrikson, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u55	Mr President! Thank you all for a very constructive debate and thank you for giving this proposal a great deal of support. A few comments and a few answers to these questions. Mr Essayah has already left here, but I would like to reply to him in this way that the enforcement has gone well in itself. The number of months of leave granted has increased by almost 17% in the early part of the year, i.e. by a significant amount. There has been a slight increase in processing times and, in particular, some delays have been caused by the interest rate. Now to Mr Elomaa's question. Some of these facilitations are such that they come directly on their own, some of which are discretionary. This temporary law allows for these discretionary flexibility, offers more opportunities for them than would be without this temporary legislation. Mr Meri, the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, raised a very important question, namely the quality of the drafting of the law and the urgency that the Committee on Legal Affairs now has and has had with these corona legislative projects. I am sorry that this is the case. In this very difficult situation, the government is trying to act as quickly as possible. Of course, we also have a situation where the resources in the ministries are limited. We work as hard as we can. I would like to thank you very much in advance, because I know that, hopefully, there will still be one proposal coming this week that is quite busy. I regret this timetable in advance, but I live in the belief that it is also an important issue for Parliament. Speaking of which, good speeches have also been made on social credit. In that respect, it falls within the administrative sphere of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. There was a debate on this the last time a ministerial group on justice and internal security held its meeting. I personally believe that this is an important issue that needs to be promoted, but it is being prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. But you are right that there is a need for intersectoral cooperation here. After all, the government is doing a great deal of work here at all in the area of over-indebtedness. A positive credit repository will be established. It is obviously not until 2024 that we will be able to introduce it because of this very difficult regulatory situation and the difficult technology. But let's get back to that. And as far as payment failures are concerned, I am very concerned here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u56	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. After the Minister's presentation, the debate will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u57	Mr President! In the Government's proposal for a law amending the annex to the Act on the taxation of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, a record of moderate increases in alcohol taxes of EUR 50 million will be made in accordance with the Government's programme. The law relates to next year's budget and is intended to enter into force on 1. 1 January 21st. This is a fiscal increase, which would mainly be directed at all groups of drinks in equal proportion to the alcohol contained in the drink. However, the increase in the tax on wine would be slightly higher than the increase in the tax on other categories of beverages, as the alcohol tax on wines is lower than on other beverages. The alcohol tax has been increased in all Government term since 2008. The alcohol tax is one of these cents per litre taxes, which are regularly raised because inflation always loses its share of the increases and the real tax revenue over time. On average, excise duty on alcoholic beverages would increase by around 5%. This proposal proposes higher increases in the tax rates for low-alcohol beer and ethyl alcohol. This would correct the current tax structure where the soft drinks tax on non-alcoholic beverages is higher than the alcohol tax on low-alcohol beer or ethyl alcohol-based drink per litre. As a result of the tax increase, retail prices of alcoholic beverages would increase by an estimated 2 per cent on average. As I said, the proposed tax increase would increase the annual yield by around EUR 50 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u58	Now I ask those representatives who want to use the reply to the question, to stand up and press the V button from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u59	Mr President! Raising the taxation of disadvantages in itself is a line that must have been driven by a number of parties. However, at the moment, the restaurant industry is in serious trouble. Even yesterday, on the steps of the Parliament House, there were a group of quite adept restaurant workers, and they were very sorry that this sector has now fallen into the midst of real discipline. This is where Mr Myllykoski took the initiative in the spring to allow small breweries to be sold out and out. This initiative was signed by 110 MPs. I myself took the initiative of allowing, even temporarily, the sale of wines to restaurants, now that there is a great deal of restrictions on restaurant activities. Many consumers would certainly wish that when you buy food from a restaurant, you could also buy wine suitable for that food. This initiative was also signed by a number of MPs. Now that restaurant activities are again severely restricted and many are in the midst of a real crisis of support, could the government consider these measures to facilitate the restaurant industry and the small brewery sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u60	Mr President! There have been many debates in this Chamber on alcohol taxation. Tax tightening is a questionable activity for Finland. This results in an increase in passenger imports, which means a loss of income and taxes abroad and a loss of disadvantages in Finland. The tax increase feeds, among other things, the activities of Estonia and the Baltic countries. Estonia, which wanted to curb the liquor rally elsewhere in the Baltic countries, dropped its own alcohol tax in the quarter last year. What is Finland doing? Passenger imports are no longer the only way to circumvent Finnish taxation. The Internet is full of European alcoholic shops that deliver the products to the door. In the interest rate crisis, instead of tax increases, we should consider how to support a Finnish entrepreneur. In Finland, you cannot order beer from small breweries, its law forbids, but you can order beer from Germany. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u61	Madam President! I have just seen in this budget book that we will have EUR 1393 million on the revenue side of the alcohol tax next year, and as the Minister of Finance has just presented here, this will then achieve the target of EUR 50 million, which will have a 2% impact on alcohol prices. There is certainly enough to talk about alcohol tax, just as other Members have said here, but I personally do not think that this price increase is in any way unreasonable and will hardly have dramatic effects in one direction or another. This is above all a fiscal increase this time. What do you get for $50 million? We all have our own views on this, but I would say that, for example, it will give about one million more visits to basic health care, at a unit price of EUR 50 per visit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u62	Madam President! As the Minister has pointed out, this is a relatively low increase and the reasons behind it are reasonable, but I think that in the big picture Mr Ronkainen's speech is such that we must take note of the advice. That is, how we are doing in this country an alcohol policy that does not demonise alcohol consumption and consumption, but encourages the use of mild products, domestic small brewery products and wines more than hard wines. That is what this is all about. On the other hand, it is also about curbing the import of alcohol by, among other things, interpreting what is for personal use. These amounts are enormous at the moment. But I would also like us to be able to move towards a more liberal alcohol policy, in which the use of alcohol, the use of wines, is increasingly possible, and in which we would also be thinking about bringing wines into the future as a product from grocery stores and moving towards a European, sensible alcohol culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u63	Mr President! If any tax increase in this time period is a stupid solution, unfortunately this is it. Yes, at the moment Finnish restaurants are in such a bad situation that this is, in a certain way, putting them down completely. And when we should specifically talk about how we can save these 100,000 jobs. Rather, we should be talking here in the Chamber – as some Members have said here – about how we can promote, for example, a temporary reduction in VAT on alcohol sold in restaurants or a temporary exemption from the sale of wines to restaurants. They would be precisely the tricks we could use to save jobs at the moment. Having also mentioned this EU dimension in this presentation, I dare to ask the Minister: what really happened to this bill by Mrs Myllykoski about the fixed-term online sales rights of small breweries signed by more than half of the MPs?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u64	Mr President! Of course, there can be a general and wide-ranging debate on alcohol policy in this context, and that is certainly appropriate, but, as Mr Lindén has pointed out, this proposal itself has a very small impact when an increase of EUR 50 million is made in the tax package of hundreds of millions. It is estimated that in retail sales prices would increase by an average of two per cent, i.e. for a beer can like that, the effect would be two cents. So there is no mention of any massive impact on consumer prices. What is essential is that we address one problem that we have had. Alcohol-free beer, which is subject to soft drinks tax, has been more taxed than non-alcoholic beer, which is more than 0.5%. These have become familiar to me for some reason lately, and it does seem crazy to me that adding a little alcohol to a non-alcoholic beer will get a lower tax than
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u65	Madam President! To this small brewery debate, I would say that we in the Left Alliance, for example, have called for a solution to this distance selling, but it is clear that there has been a state of will in the government for the distance selling of small breweries, but not for the dismantling of Alko's monopoly, to which this debate has also inevitably moved. Our representative and chairman of our parliamentary group, Mr Arhinmäki, said innovatively that Alko would be obliged to significantly increase the number of small brewery beers in his range and that the possibility of moving Alko home would also be explored in line with the Swedish Systembolaget model. So in some way this system could be solved. I would like to ask the Minister about this sugar tax. Its health effects would be significant. Do you think there's anything we can do about it? There's sugar in these.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u66	Mr President! Surely it is clear that this bill is aimed at the revenue side of the budget, but there is a need for a wider debate on alcohol in Finland. Even now, in the midst of the corona crisis, we know that restaurants are very hard for these new restrictions, and I therefore hope that the government will seriously consider — late but not later — the possibility that the restaurants will be able to sell out wine during and perhaps after the corona period. I don't think it would do much harm. Instead, it could save many companies. The second question is this distance selling of alcohol. It is now the case that foreign online stores are allowed to supply alcohol to Finns through online sales, but domestic, employed, tax-paying companies are not allowed to do so. As has been said, this bill has the support of the majority in Parliament, and I believe that it obliges the government. I hope that the Minister will take a position on these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u67	Mr President! After all, in parliamentary debates, alcohol is a moral issue in which people can vote in accordance with their conscience, and it may also give this debate looseness. The Minister has presented this very well and we understand that this scale is essentially an inflation adjustment at index level. Mr Wallinheimo used a rather strong word when he said that this was a total knock-out for the restaurant industry and even in this crisis situation — perhaps a somewhat exaggerating expression. Instead, I would have drawn attention to the fact, in the presentation by the Minister, that this relative increase in wines is slightly higher than in these other species. I myself would be inclined to think so, when reference was made to the European alcohol culture, whether it would not be more advantageous for wine to be used more widely and, in a way, for these strong drinks to be invested more in this tax system, which was now a little divisive from this point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u68	Madam President! When nothing is enough, more will be taxed. This has been the case for a long time in Finland's tax policy. Pauli Vahtera made a calculation in 19, according to which the average Finnish two-child family, where both parents work, pays 74 per cent of their income. The increase in alcohol tax increases the amount of alcohol ordered from foreign online stores to Finland. At present, too, imports of alcohol by travellers would be considerably higher if the corona epidemic were not in place. For many years, many Finns have ordered their alcoholic beverages directly to the home door from Germany, for example, for half the price. When it was decided to raise alcohol taxes in Estonia a few years ago, the end result was a reduction in taxes. This will also happen in Finland. Estonia learned a lesson, and Estonia reduced excise duty on alcohol products by 25% in order to curb the liquor rally at the country's border with Latvia, but what does it do?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u69	Madam President! The good thing about this is that we are now considering non-alcoholic beer and slightly alcohol-containing beer, this is being corrected. But it is unquestionably necessary to interfere with that online sales right of small breweries. After all, the basic thrust is that this sector produces about 3.5% of all alcohol sold and produced in Finland but employs 10% of all workers in the sector, i.e. this is a very good ratio. That sector should be supported right here on the eve of the crisis, where we are now. It is still not too late — the interest rate is unfortunately continuing — so that the government cannot continue to deal with this issue, and I hope that, and also that the alcohol alga in restaurants will be moderated, more of the cultural opportunity will be created,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u70	Madam President! The Finance Minister, Mr Vanhanen, said here that this is a fiscal exercise, and I am sure it is, but it does not remove the fact that the Finnish restaurant industry is in a state of crisis at the moment. And at the same time, if the government brings such proposals into this Chamber, it is also your duty to give broad consideration to measures to strengthen in the future the operating restrictions in the tourism and restaurant sectors. Madam Speaker! I would like to highlight one example of this right to sell out wines. I would really like to see Finland moving towards a European alcohol culture too. This would also provide a small new tool for restaurants. Secondly, I would like to ask the Minister how you see that taxation at all could be adapted and incentives created for people to move to restaurants to spend and use these services, and accordingly it would also support the sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u71	Madam President! Minister! Of course, it is a difficult time at the moment to assess these tax revenues, too, that how this will develop. I would like to know if there has been any assessment at the Ministry. For example, we have received news that Alko’s sales have increased dramatically. Similarly, of course, we now see that there is certainly no level of sales in restaurants. And what is the trade's share? Of course, when this interest rate is recovered, action must be taken on the means by which passenger imports can be reduced. There have been extremely good speeches here in favour of how much we do not receive in normal circumstances, for example because of this passenger import. Now for the corona-time measures, the Centre has proposed temporary sales of products as well as delivery to the home, for example, from grocery stores, restaurants and the brewing industry. This allowing distance selling is a party-sharing position,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u72	Mr President! In a way, there has been a need for less alcohol taxes as a means of resuscitation. I don't think this is a suitable way to do that. Rather, in some countries a fixed-term reduced rate of VAT has now been introduced, for example, a 5% reduction in the revitalization of the sector from the depths of the interest rate. This fixed-term revision of alcohol taxation is somewhat similar to that of fuel taxes, so that the real price is kept at the same level. In order to show that the social democrats have a roof high and the walls wide, Mr Kiljunen said that the taxation of wines should be reduced, treated less lightly, but if we look at this table on page 18 of the proposal, we see that the taxation of wines on the basis of alcohol content is lighter than in a logical, strong direction in tightening taxation. In fact, wine would be now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u73	Mr President! I do not know if economics knows such a concept as ‘tax to be increased in the index’,but the government has sufficient tax to increase in this index,this alcohol has since become the next. This should go ahead of reason rather than ideologically driving the idea of banning alcohol into a kind of prohibitionism, which seems to always be the background here. In the current situation, it makes no sense for alcoholic beverages to be taken out of Finland and carried back at cheap prices. As a matter of interest, this right to sell small breweries and the sale of restaurants should have been done a long time ago, and I wonder where they have remained. Who, then, will oppose them if they share the parties? What party opposes these things? Above all, this matter of distance selling should have been dealt with a long time ago, recognising the facts. When Finland was forced into the EU, we were promised cheap cars and alcohol. Do you think after 25 years, it would be time to redeem at least one of these promises?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u74	Mr President! Changing the taxation of alcohol is always a bit of a two-pipe thing. It must, of course, consider health issues, but also fiscal issues and, at the same time, how we react after the changes or what happens to imports of alcohol from Estonia and Latvia. Now, of course, this excise duty is applied to all alcohols, whether they are sold in a restaurant or in shops or where they are sold, but surely it will have an effect on the fact that perhaps more will then bring in those drinks that might otherwise be bought in Finland. This year I have taken a legislative initiative to reduce the VAT rate on alcoholic beverages from 24% to 14 when it is sold in restaurants in connection with food rations. I think that this would be a measure that might increase the temptation to visit restaurants for people who might not otherwise be there,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u75	Madam President! Good speeches are being made specifically for small breweries. In my opinion, such a tax increase in this situation is indeed a wet rag for both restaurant entrepreneurs and a large number of entrepreneurs. I would like to say that, as Mr Mäkelä has said with merit, 25 years have been waiting for the promises that the European Union has given us, and now it sounds like the opinions of the representatives of the government parties are also of the order that this should be done. It is strange that we are allowed to order domestic small brewery products by mail from Estonia but not directly from the small brewery in Finland. I would see that when 200 of us are sitting here, we all look at something like this with our mouths open. This is a special situation. I would like this to be corrected and indeed taken into account in the Finnish economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u76	Madam President! The old people say that liquor is cheap as long as money can buy it, but there is still a limit to how many citizens and entrepreneurs can be punished for consumption. It's the entrepreneur's business that I'm here, which means it's hard to sell at a distance. The distance selling and making it possible for small breweries is inconceivably confusing because a citizen can order liquor and alcohol by truck from abroad to the door, but not even a bottle of small breweries from Finland, and be it white-cheese geese or beer cans, so we always appeal to the European Union. However, distance selling is now under discussion as to whether Finland wishes to change alcohol legislation voluntarily. I would also stress here that the decisions of the authorities must always be based on law — the principle of legality. What is special about this is that the Finnish Alcohol Act does not prohibit distance sales. What are we really talking about here? It's confusing, isn't it? Mr President! The distance selling of small breweries would be the best interest rate subsidy for operators in the sector, which would also generate tax revenues for the State. It would like to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u77	Madam President! Estonia always thanks Finland for raising the taxation of alcoholic beverages. Similarly, foreign online stores thank each time Finland increases the taxation of alcoholic beverages. More and more people are seeking or ordering their drinks from abroad, and as has been heard here, even Finnish-made beverages are bought from abroad, ordered there. First they take them with trucks and then they bring them back. I respectfully ask, Mr Vanhanen: do you understand that raising taxes on alcoholic beverages will lead to trade abroad?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u78	In this debate, I will give four more speeches and then move on to the list of speakers. And who did? I still think I have the right thing to do: Lindén, Wallinheimo, Könttä and Suomela. And Lindén will begin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u79	Madam President! There would have been three things I would have liked to do. But often the Laffer curve has been mentioned here, and I think it is a curve suitable for use when we talk about alcohol taxation and some other taxes, not all of it. It is a theoretical idea that if the tax on a product or service is too high, then the total tax revenue will be reduced and, on the other hand, if it is too low, we will not be able to achieve an increase in that tax revenue. Well, now there is certainly such an objective area where the tax revenue is sought, but now, of course, when we are talking about alcohol tax, this is the public health aspect. In fact, the total consumption of alcohol in Finland, taking into account all types of consumption, has decreased in recent years. It was 6 litres in Finland at the time when Parliament had a major health policy debate in 83 C.E. and set a target to drop it to 4 litres in absolute terms,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u80	Mr President! Congressman Kiljunen said I used a little hard language. Well, that was a straight quote I heard yesterday at the protest. That's it. The second point concerns the tightening or relaxation of the taxation of alcohol: whenever alcohol policy is relaxed, it is a matter of conscience, but if it is tightened, it is not a matter of conscience for some reason. I would like to know what the government's line is this time: is this really a matter of conscience? I thought I heard some more liberal speeches from the representatives of the government party, so they should also have the right to vote differently. Last but not least, the Alko debate in that respect, as I said in the previous speech, is a fundamental right of the EU and Alko's monopoly is an exception, so the movement of EU goods should always be at the heart of it and the derogations from it are subject to it. Isn't that right, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u81	Madam President! A relatively small change is made in the taxation of alcohol policy when looking at the price of an alcoholic product, for example, per beer can. But I would like to ask the Minister whether you think it would be appropriate to look at alcohol taxation as if it were going to change the focus, as has already been said here before, on consumption, on controlled conditions in homes, on restaurants, on the one hand, so that we would support milder alcoholic products, i.e. beers, wines, and taxation would increase quite sharply towards wines, which, as it were, we were driving people to use milder alcoholic products, and, on the other hand, perhaps a point in this overall tax review would be found where the volume of imports could, however, be kept relatively well under control. There must always be imports, and when you travel abroad, of course there are many Finns who want to bring something with them. But do you see this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u82	Let us take one more floor, and then the Minister. — Mr Suomela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u83	Mr President! I myself firmly believe — even though it has been said here that alcohol policy is often evoked by feelings — that it will certainly be possible to talk about this matter properly and calmly to see that it is really only a EUR 50 million package, which will result in very minor changes, given that it is a EUR hundreds of millions of euros of tax revenue. A large part of that money, I understand, is simply being offset by the difference between a 0.0 % non-alcoholic beer and a 0.5% non-alcoholic beer. This cannot be blamed as a very ideological project. Even now, this difference is not fully closed — so cautious is it this time — but the tax on non-alcoholic beer is still lower than that on alcohol-free beer of 0.5%. I was talking about consumer prices. According to the Ministry of Finance, changes in liquor prices remain at an average of good 0.5 per cent. So if you look at one of those five-euro pints, that's 2.7 cents more, if you're assuming.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u84	Minister Vanhanen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u85	Mr President! Perhaps years from now it will be possible to assess whether this was an index increase of 50 million or whether inflation fell slightly differently. Both the fuel tax and this part of the tax have included this index term, because clearly the general discussion does not quite understand that when the tax is like cents per litre, it is the tax that inflation eats, its tax revenue from the state's point of view inflation eats. That is why, in practice, these increases are made every parliamentary term in order to maintain the income base for the State. What will happen to these returns: on the basis of this increase, I predict — and here I appeal to past history — that the tax revenue will remain quite well in the state, that this tax increase will not flow very much abroad. These questions, which do not now belong to the Minister of Taxation, relate to this sale of small breweries and the sale of restaurants from restaurants: I have nothing new to say from the government's side, but I believe that it would be more understandable from the point of view of the debate if everyone were clearly committed to the idea that we should preserve the Alko monopoly and not destroy it. This is actually the theory through which the differences of opinion between those in the debate may be best understood. Representative Peltokangas asked if I understood the connection between the tax increase and passenger imports. Yes, I do. In 2003, when we saw that the time for our own derogation is coming to an end and at the same time the Baltic States were about to join the Union, we were wondering what we were doing. When there were no proposals for decisions, then, as Prime Minister, I said — I am a sober man myself, but I said, and I do not know the sector very well — that a third of our taxes will be dropped, because this membership of the Baltic States will be answered, and that is what has been done. In the case of ethyl alcohol, the drop was about 50, approximately halved, and now I noticed that this increase only returns ethyl alcohol to a level of about EUR 50 per litre of 100 % alcohol. In other words, we are now at the same level in euro as we were almost 20 years ago, but the real price is still much cheaper, cheaper than after the increase in 2004. In other words, this connection is, of course, difficult, particularly for the Baltic States. But from the tax levels in the various countries included in this annex you can see that, although the Baltic countries are competing with each other, they have clearly coordinated their tax levels. They are very close to each other, but nevertheless they too make annual increases and invoices based on the development of passenger imports.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u86	Let us now move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u87	Madam President! I hope that the Minister of Finance will, in any case, take strong greetings from this Chamber to the board of directors that, now that these tax changes are made, it is important to ensure that the conditions for the sector in general are strengthened and that businesses and entrepreneurs are able to cope even after this crisis. As has been pointed out here, this opportunity to sell wine too, wine products out of the restaurant is one concrete thing, but other parts of Europe have gone to, and it is somehow hard to imagine and see why we in Finland could not trust people and their own judgment. Why do we have to regulate so much, which is why we must also impose so many bans — why can't we just rely more on the common sense and judgment of people in this, because everywhere else in Europe this has worked well? Madam Speaker! As far as this small brewery is concerned, I am very surprised that the majority of this Chamber has signed Mrs Myllykoski's bill, for which Mrs Myllykoski is very grateful that she has made good progress. But I really think it's the authority of this Parliament... Let us say that I do not think that the government is taking this issue seriously enough because we do not know and have not heard where it is at the moment. This is exactly what several colleagues have said here that people can order products from a foreign small brewery producer, yes, but then, again, when it comes to how domestic small breweries are doing, they are totally down on this issue, and I cannot possibly understand and think that this could be the will to do it. Madam Speaker! Thirdly, and lastly, I think that this reflection on how we could use taxation at all, when we look at this whole alcohol policy, that is to say regulation, but also tax policy, is going to guide this country precisely in the direction of encouraging citizens, people, specifically to consume in restaurants, to eat and then to enjoy more alcoholic beverages there again, and yet again it would give a view to the sector, creating employment, and yet, in that case, the consumption of alcohol would also take place under controlled conditions. I do not think that the Minister has answered this correctly, but I hope that you will give careful consideration to this question, because there have been certain measures, including those tabled by MaRa, and I see that this debate in this Chamber should also take place carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u88	Mr President! Mr Vanhanen, you quite rightly said that many of the changes that have been raised here are not in your administrative sector, but you have taken a position here, as it were, that these proposals might in some way have a deplorable effect on Alko's monopoly. Because we were aware, for example, that we were taking this legislative initiative to allow out-of-commerce, that it involves this element of wines which, in some way, are considered to be in the border zone, that what is covered by the monopoly and what is not, and can be calculated then, that there is still a monopoly, that we did so on time and that it would be linked specifically to this restriction on restaurant activities. When restricting the restaurant business by regulation or law, it is quite right and reasonable that consideration should also be given to measures which could, however, allow the turnover of restaurants to be kept at any level. This would be precisely the kind of targeted action that could help the sector to survive the crisis. We did not go as if we were thinking that this would be possible as a permanent change or that the government would go along with it, but I hope once again that you will deliver a message and that you could even consider this change on a temporary basis. Then this second question about small breweries: In these previous speeches, a very large number of Members have supported it. It is quite inconceivable that we can also order wines, but especially these beers, small brewery products, why not even larger breweries, from other parts of Europe but not from Finnish small breweries. It's kind of a thing that doesn't go quite to the common sense, that why. Especially in times like this, when it is better for a person to order that brewery product directly at his home rather than walk into a store or a shop next to the brewery to buy it, would this not be the kind of change that the government could now promote and help to overcome this crisis in our vibrant small brewery culture. Of course, it has to be said at this end that the fact that last season the alcohol percentage was slightly increased by which these products of small breweries, for example, can be sold in the store at the moment, has certainly been welcomed by the fact that even though the total consumption of alcohol has not risen, there is a terrible variety of such things as the various products of small breweries in Finland and even a little bigger breweries, and Finns have started to buy quality when it is possible for them. We hope that we can continue along this path in our alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u89	Mr President! Now I would like to check with Mr Multala when I am not quite sure whether it is actually legal for us to order small brewery products from abroad. The information I have, which I have received, would tell me that it is also illegal, and in that respect they are of a common nature. It is different whether this could be allowed or not and whether legislation could be liberalised in this respect. I recognise the nature of this debate, as the Minister of Finance has pointed out here, that this is an index increase, but what is surprising is that, particularly from the point of view of the opposition, we are talking about a number of these types of index increase. The fuel tax was on the table, as well as this alcohol tax, and Mr Mäkelä directly updated these words that ‘the government has sufficient index-linked taxes’ and that this basic situation was being depreciated. I have to tell Mr Mäkelä that the government also has index-linked social transfers. One of the things in life is that we have both taxes and benefits, the real level of which we want to maintain, just as the Minister has just said, and then all these index increases are timely and relevant. There is one index increase which, however, would require some adjustment. I am not going to talk about a folded index in pensions in this context, it is a separate fair, but index increases have a place in Finland both in the tax section and in the social transfers section.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u90	Mr President! Of course, talking about the taxation of alcohol is extremely topical at the moment, since restaurants are being regulated quite tightly again. Many Members, or at least some of them, have already said that there were representatives from the restaurant sector on the steps of the Parliament House yesterday, and they are very concerned about this current situation. Restaurants are again being regulated very strictly until the long future, and many people are really concerned about their livelihoods. One of the things they themselves have suggested is that restaurants should also be allowed to sell out the wines, so that they could, as it were, think about which wine is suitable for what meal, and offer the customer a whole. Of course, they understand that this too would be a sort of patchwork in this situation, when almost the whole industry is closed again, but in any case we have to think about what action we can take to keep this sector alive. Mr President! In my recent speech, I have pointed out that I have indeed taken a legislative initiative to reduce the VAT rate on alcoholic beverages to 14% of the current 24 in restaurants. For what time they can be open, they would certainly be able to increase the total sales volume with this. There are different studies of this from earlier times. Here, among other things, Mr Ovaska said earlier that Alko's sales, if we are talking about alcohol sales, grew during the spring and in the summer. Especially when it comes to spring, the reason is very simple: people go to Alko to get their drinks if the restaurants are not open. I'm sure you don't need any more research in that regard. As far as this legislative proposal is concerned, I personally understand this excise duty as a fiscal point of view. If it brings EUR 50 million into the state treasury, then if you apply for something positive, it is better than applying for it, for example, by raising income tax. In that sense this is better, but the disadvantage is, of course, that when prices certainly go up, the temptation for many is to pick up that cargo from Estonia or Latvia, as has been said in the past. Here, some colleagues have also said that small breweries would be well placed to have this right to sell out, and I agree with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u91	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u92	We shall now proceed to the 10th reading of the item that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u93	Madam President! Let me repeat a little more of these key points that we made today when this matter was discussed here. Mr Vanhanen, Minister of Finance, said that this is primarily a fiscal exercise. I understand that its impact, if we look at the product by product at what it means, even if at the price of a single beer can, is on some centimetres, but above all in this situation, when the Finnish restaurant sector is in a deep crisis, we must also see that every increase in tax will affect, of course, the situation of these companies and the employment in the sector, and in this situation, if the government is preparing such proposals at the same time, it is also their duty and responsibility to take a broad view of all the other factors which will make this difficult situation in the restaurant sector easier. We have put forward a proposal to liberalise the sale of wines. That, on the other hand, would be a big help for restaurants against the future. I think that we should genuinely look into this whole alcohol tax package in such a way that, in future, it would be possible, as it were, to support or direct people through taxation to consume these products in restaurants rather than in other parts of the world. Madam Speaker! I would like to see a move to a European alcohol policy in Finland, which would rely on people's common sense, on people's responsibility, and which, in this respect, would dare to dismantle and give entrepreneurs and people more opportunity and freedom. We are now waiting for these proposals in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u94	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u95	Mr President! The Act on Temporary Amendment of the Local Government Act is part of the municipal support package agreed upon. Yesterday we had a debate on the increase of more than EUR 5 billion in euros for municipalities, and this temporary change in the municipal law is also one element in which the local government situation can be made easier. We have an article that is being changed so that the financial difficulties caused by the corona, covid epidemic would not cause excessive difficulties for the municipalities so that, if they so wish, the municipalities will receive additional years to adjust their own economies. This is not an automatic, but at this point the municipality could apply to the Ministry for an extension of the coverage of this deficit from four to six years. In other words, when the municipal law was changed in 2015 to which this was defined, it is now the first time they are coming to the end of the period, and it is now possible to apply for an extension of two years. This must be based on the cost of the interest rate, i.e. we have many municipalities where the situation is acute, but it is maintained that this two-year extension is only possible for those municipalities which have the capacity to demonstrate that the need for this comes from the cost of the interest rate. These increases this year and next year will be a relief for municipalities, but, as we know, the effects will not only remain in these years, which is what we are talking about, but will probably go a few years further, before, among other things, tax revenues are evened out, and that is why it is also necessary to do this in order to make that adjustment. We have a municipal economic programme which has been carried out, and there we can see how many municipalities and municipalities with deficits in the negative annual ceiling, and also municipalities which are supposed to be subject to the evaluation procedure, and as was also the case yesterday in the debate, all of these exist regardless of the interest rate. For us, these problems in municipalities are quite long-term. In this section of the municipal evaluation procedure, or in the section of the joint municipal board assessment procedure, it would take two years from that date and then proceed to the evaluation procedure. So, of course, this does not remove the fact that the municipality does not need to make that adjustment, but that it would have two more years if the municipality so requests and then it is granted, which means that it is not in any way automatic. This can be calculated on the basis of the interest rate costs. It is likely to be further defined how income has deteriorated due to the interest rate and/or, on the other hand, how the costs of organising and testing services and everything else have increased the costs of municipalities, and these are compared with the budgets and financial statements of the so-called normal years, when this difference can then be observed. With regard to these additional years, of course, we must also report to the Ministry of Finance on how we will then achieve this balancing of the economy. This law would be in force until the end of the year 25, so that the application for an extension of this two-year period could be applied for until the end of 2025, when years thereafter would be extended to extend the coverage period of the year 26. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u96	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u97	Mr President! This year, many municipalities have been negotiating closely and are planning to take painful steps to balance the economy. It is therefore very important that the government allocates a total of 600 million additional funding to municipalities and hospital districts in the autumn's additional budget. In addition, next year the central government shares of basic municipal services will be increased by another EUR 300 million, while the municipalities' share of corporate tax revenue will be increased by 10 per cent. These municipal subsidies help to balance the finances of larger and smaller municipalities. For example, this bailout package brings millions of euros to the North Poles. Mr President! This Government’s proposal proposes a temporary amendment of the Municipal Law so that ‘the Ministry of Finance may apply for an extension from the current fouryears to sixyears if the economic difficulties caused by the epidemic of the municipalityeicovid-19 could be covered by the This proposal, together with the massive additional funding for the government's local government finances, is very welcome. For example, in my hometown In Vaasa, a strong economic adjustment has been required in recent years, although the deficit created in the past has not been due in principle to the city's own decisions, but, among other things, to the fact that the central government shares of municipalities have been severely cut during the last term of government. The city of Vaasa would certainly have been able to adjust its balance sheet deficit this year, but the economic difficulties resulting from the covid-19 epidemic have made this work clearly more difficult. I believe that the government's proposal is justified, because the municipalities are not responsible for the unexpected and new costs of the interest rate. It would be wrong to force the municipalities to adjust their economies in the context of the timetable set by the current obligation to cover the deficit. Mr President! The sustainability of public finances should not be managed at this stage through cuts and tax increases, as their adverse effects are significantly greater than benefits in this situation. The Government's financial support measures for municipalities and the possibility for municipalities to apply for additional time to cover the deficit are measures that can finance important services for residents and hopefully also avoid the worst cuts, layoffs and layoffs in municipalities this year and next year. I would like to thank the Government, and in particular Minister Paatero, for promoting these important proposals that support the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u98	Mr President! The already challenging economic situation of municipalities has deteriorated further as a result of the corona crisis. It is important that municipalities already in distress should not be penalised more than is currently the case with the interest rate. That is why the financial support of the municipalities and the government's proposal now being presented are commendable measures for our municipalities. The purpose of this government proposal is therefore to amend the municipal law for a fixed period so that the municipality could apply to the Ministry of Finance for an extension of the deficit coverage period from the current four years to six years if the municipality could not cover the deficit accumulated in the balance sheet within the limits of the current law due to the economic difficulties caused by the corona epidemic. Although the state has now provided substantial support to municipalities to cope with the corona crisis, the epidemic affects their ability to cover the deficit within the current deadline. According to the recent local government finances programme, the results of the local government finances in 2020 look better than expected in the spring. Nevertheless, the number of municipalities with negative annual margins and deficits will increase. The number of municipalities in the evaluation process is likely to increase in the coming years. Mr President! The economy is recovering very slowly from such a massive crisis. The challenge is a difficult assessment of our future when no one knows the duration of the uncertain situation. The regional impact of the interest rate will also vary significantly in the coming years. It is clear that structural reforms to improve the sustainability of the municipal sector are increasingly needed. Fortunately, yesterday we all heard that the reform of the social economy is finally progressing. It is certainly the biggest structural reform aimed at securing the social and health services of citizens with wider shoulders. It is also equally clear that safeguarding local government finances also requires municipalities' own productivity and adjustment measures in the future. Therefore, the role of municipal decision-makers will not be easy in the future. Mr President! This government proposal is a very important hand-out for municipalities facing a particularly challenging economic situation as a result of the interest rate. The extension of the deadline for the recovery of the deficit allows municipalities to amortise the measures needed to cover the deficit over a longer period. The law would be in force until the end of 2025. Mr President! I think this is a very worthy proposal, Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u99	Mr President! In this respect, colleagues from the government parties have lauded this proposal and I am sure that this is justified in itself, given the prevailing circumstances, but I would like to give some thought to the wisdom of not taking the necessary decisions, decisions that would in any case be before us in the Finnish local government and in the wider public finances. The basic problem on the income side of municipalities is that, from 2010 onwards, as far as we can from this day forward, we can predict the future — and quite far we can, because those who have been born today will be 25 years old in 25 years’ time — every single year more people will leave the world of work than new people will be replaced. And this continuing deterioration in the dependency ratio combined with the fact that the employment rate in Finland lags considerably behind, for example, other Nordic countries, which may be relevant to us, leading to the fact that the income of municipalities is simply not sufficient to cover the expenditure that municipalities have set. Now that the Minister himself rightly explained this, on the one hand, is doing this suspension of the evaluation procedure on the part of the municipalities and, on the other hand, on the basis of the costs of the interest rate, the State has promised to reimburse these costs of the interest rate. There should not be additional costs for any municipality as such for the interest rate. Well, then I understand very well that many municipalities are going to fall sharply on the income side of the huge blow caused by such a global pandemic and, of course, it is very differently targeted at different municipalities and cities across the country, depending on the type of economic structure and the type of population structure the localities have. I am afraid, however, that the attacks brought by this pandemic will leave a permanent blow, not to delay the adoption of the necessary adjustment decisions to the future, to facilitate the task that these municipalities and cities have, to provide and secure good services for their citizens. That's the idea of the municipality's activities. That's the idea of being able to provide those services. That is why I would ask a little bit here that it is not an Inquisition, this evaluation procedure, in which the municipality must fear, with terror, that it will begin to discuss with the Ministry of Finance how long running will ensure these conditions, that good services can be provided by the municipality.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u100	Mr President! After all, the government has been very determined to tackle the financial difficulties caused by this corona crisis in Finland. The government has clearly recognised that companies have suffered, citizens, people have suffered, but municipalities have also suffered, and the role of municipalities as a provider of key public services is quite significant in Finland. It is important that the government is aware of it and has created this broad agenda, a package that also supports municipalities — exceptionally broad support. This temporary amendment to the Local Government Act in this paragraph, which now lays down a deadline for the coverage of this deficit, i.e. extending from four to six years, is one of the details contained in this large package. But let’s say ‘detail’ because of many other things. But here I have followed with interest the reaction of the opposition to these. When a government takes important, big measures, in which even the public recognizes its need, there is some reason why the opposition does not want to find its thanks, but there is always some criticism that goes against it. Last time, Mr Autto's speech was this way, although he approached very cautiously, he said that there was a need for structural reforms. That is what the government is promising, but I ask: whenever the word ‘structural reform’ is said, what does structural reform have to do with it? This is the euphemism we hide behind without telling us what we want with it. Reference was already made here to the social reform, which was brought to the finish line. At least a government settlement was found there yesterday. It is now a structural reform, for example. We have a lot of other structural reforms that have their own significance, but this debate always seems to relate to the fact that it is mainly about applying for a place on the cut list for municipal services that is referred to as a deterioration in the dependency ratio. What does the deterioration in the dependency ratio actually mean? Let's be very careful what a dependency ratio means: It is a calculated figure based on the assumption that people between the ages of 15 and 65 are active people who are, as it were, dependent on working life, even though we directly know that 30% of that age group, which is of working age, is not dependent on working life. We will then immediately come to this increase in the employment rate, to which Mr Autto rightly referred, and then we will have to look at the ways in which we are increasing the employment rate, rather than simply updating the theoretical deterioration in the dependency ratio. Of the over 65-year-olds who are therefore dependent citizens of the dependency ratio, 100,000 are involved in paid work. By the way, this is one person who is weakening the dependency ratio right now in the voice. Kimmo Kiljunen weakens the dependency ratio in Finland on these calculated criteria that you have. In other words, I would like these questions to be opened up clearly and not to be played with some terms that are easy to do, but which are based on the fact that there is a foxtail under the arm, that it is a question of cutting public services. That's why I think it's very valuable for the government to mention it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u101	Mr President! I did not quite understand Mr Kiljunen's criticism when he himself went through what those structural reforms meant. And here Mr Autto very well said that these employment reforms are the most important of all. In fact, this social welfare in itself, if we look at local government finances, does not improve the condition of local government finances, especially in growing cities, but, on the contrary, weakens it when less money should be able to cope with the same services as in the past. And if there is less spending than there is, then everyone will understand that it will be more challenging in the future to cope with the financing of services, let alone with the financing of investments. Until now, large investments have been financed by debt money in many municipalities. However, if the municipalities retain all the former debts that will surely be added to many with the interest rate, then more than 13 per cent of the municipal tax revenue will come from them, and this much lower return should in future finance not only services but also those investments. And now that the state has at the same time also had such a line that, for example, the share of large infrastructure investments has been only 50 per cent instead of the previous 75 per cent, then I don't see how this equation and the future will go down in any way, even if we do this sort of temporary change in this now municipal law. Unfortunately, when we carry out those structural reforms, they must then be of the kind that they do not weaken the situation in the municipalities, because this public finances is, as it were, a whole. Of the employment reforms that we have proposed, by the way, for a rather large sum of 120,000 jobs, the majority are not as many as the government parties blame us here, but rather positive reforms, some of which are supported by the government parties. In any case, employment reforms are in practice the only way in which public finances can be balanced in the future without having to go down the road of tax increases or cuts. Well, about this legislative reform that is now before us: At least in Vantaa we said it reasonably positively. Of course, it will make the situation easier for some municipalities, but of course this will not make it so much easier for the municipalities in this situation which, as it were, are now facing this challenge as a result of the interest rate. In itself, it is good that local authorities are not now facing a crisis settlement procedure as a result of the interest rate, but are given a little more time. At the same time, however, we should constantly reflect on the measures we take to put the local government finances on a sound footing. It is not sustainable that municipal tasks are increased and at the same time funding does not increase in the same proportion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u102	Mr President! As we discussed yesterday in connection with the budget, it is so clear that, in this situation of interest rates, municipalities need temporary arrangements, of which this law is one, and then, of course, yesterday's debate has also had an extensive emergency aid package for local government finances, now with the interest rate, in order to deal with the current moments and situations. But I think that the debate that is taking place here on the long-term development of local government finances, or even in the coming years, is very appropriate: how do we turn local government finances into a healthy, healthy career when we know that we are in a situation where, even before the corona crisis, there were these difficulties — three out of four municipalities made deficit accounts. It tells us that the structures of local government finances are seriously flawed in the functions of municipalities and, on the other hand, the income side of municipalities and the vitality of municipalities. And we know that, at the same time, we are experiencing a huge demographic change that does not treat municipalities in a balanced way, we have a lower birth rate, we have Finland ageing, which puts pressure on public finances and an increase in the demand for services, and there is also migration, which means that the urbanisation phenomenon may lead to some new forms, perhaps slowing down at least temporarily. However, it is true that municipalities differ, which also causes such pressures, that some municipalities increase the tax rate and some municipalities have better local government finances, and it is in practice directly reflected in the kind of services they can provide to people and how much people are left with, for example, their own work. These structural problems we need to be able to solve, and the first thing that goes with this is the role of the municipalities. I find it intolerable that the government is once again increasing the responsibilities of the municipalities and still sub-budgeting these reforms in this situation. In other words, new tasks without full funding — that will only make this situation more difficult and not easier. Similarly, these structural reforms, which were discussed and which they are in practice, naturally relate to the responsibilities of municipalities and are also related to the municipal structure. I would therefore like to hear the thoughts of the Minister of Local Government, honest thoughts about what kind of municipal structure we can have in the future. For example, we have an increasing number of municipalities that do not have children of the same class. There must be some way in which it can also be seen in our municipal structure, even though I am not proposing any coercive alliances here. In other words, what kind of incentives, incentives for municipalities are to be created and built to encourage municipal decision-makers to make decisions, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u103	Mr President! Although this is a good idea and, of course, this should be the case, I am a little concerned personally, because there is a real risk that this structural deficit will not be corrected at this point. Yesterday we had a council meeting in my own town, Kouvola, where there was a bit of hair licking on the subject. There, too, the Minister's well-known President of the City Council praised the fact that we have nothing to worry about now, with money coming from that state, and that was reflected in the decisions of our meeting. It was not even possible to reduce the places of politicians, nor can other costs be reduced and set an example, but even to another direction, which means that the costs of our political decision-makers will be borne by the city. In some way, I think that I should now make sure that these adjustments do not go undone, because there is now little danger that the problem is that the further they are left, the more difficult they are and the more difficult they become in people's lives. I, too, have the fear that soon we may no longer have anyone running for a council when everyone knows what adjustments would have to be made in the next few months. With regard to covering the transfer deficit in this situation, I guessed that this would be the case. We talked a lot about it there and made sure that this would be the year when it should be. I myself raised the point at the outset that I believe that there will be a change, because because of the change that the interest is causing, it is unreasonable that the municipalities should also pay the price. Of course, as the Minister well knows, Kymsote, we have the biggest problem there, and that Kymsote does not directly affect the economy at this point, and if we can now make social solutions and so on, that will change a little. But it would certainly be nice for the Minister to know how to deal with it or how to monitor it or how to do so, that this hand-out from the state in the final game is not being misused or left out of the structural work, although this support and this assistance should be linked to the extra difficulties caused by the interest rate itself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u104	Congressman Mäkelä, are you talking about your seat for three minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u105	Mr President! The government's money comes from the government because the state takes up debt, which it then distributes to the municipalities. This Chamber has passed a law that municipalities must hold their finances responsibly, but there is no law that we should hold our economies responsibly here, and it will be seen in the future what its yield will be. This presentation in itself is such a little necessity to make virtue. Otherwise, the situation would have been such that there would have been dozens of municipalities in liquidation, even more, and nothing would have happened if all the municipalities in the whole country were in liquidation. In a way, the bad financial situation has turned into a normal state. The municipalities would not have been able to do so, so the rules will be rewritten at least temporarily and a state backstop will be made for this debt. The way in which the EU is currently working with the southern Member States comes to mind. The situation there is the same as in the municipalities. It must be borne in mind that the interest rate itself has not created this problem, but has only exacerbated those problems and brought them to the fore. Local government finances have long gone in a completely unsustainable direction. The revenue is not sufficient for expenditure. That is where I thought that if the tasks assigned to the municipalities by the state have doubled since the 1990s, then in most municipalities the trend is that the number of taxpayers has in practice halved, jobs have decreased, which means that there is no way that such an equation can work. So it would be necessary to recognise the facts in the future. The municipalities have a huge number of obligations that are imposed in this Chamber. These matters are decided by Parliament, and it is up to municipal decision-makers only to implement these obligations in the best way they can. The question must be asked: Are all these obligations really necessary in the municipalities of the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u106	President! If I start with this last one, then, I think three parliamentary years ago, we have started to clean up the municipal tasks, and I think that was the idea of making a billion euros of savings. Now, over the last ten years, perhaps EUR 300 million has been raised, because when we all assess in our own municipalities what tasks would not have to be carried out under the law, it will be a lot more difficult. I think that this was a good assessment of the fact that if and when the municipal package, which is now more than 5 billion in total, supports the municipalities so much that we probably do not have the first estimate when we first started talking about this issue in the summer. It may be that the situation has already improved for many. It may be that municipalities will be able to cope with this aid package so that this request for evaluation procedure does not have to be made. So here we are, in response to how this is going to be done, of course, the municipalities will have a maximum of two years of opportunity for this transfer, but it will not come automatically. It must be applied for, it must be justified, and only because of the interest rate, and it must also be reported afterwards on how these tasks have been carried out. For the normal assessment procedure: A good point from Mr Autto is that all municipalities no longer see the evaluation procedure as a punishment, but as an aid, because on the other hand it is good that the municipality should be supported by the Ministry of Finance to see what means are available to improve the local economy. On the other hand, now that we have intensified the dialogue with the municipalities on many other points, I believe that this dialogue will also help the debate so that it is no longer so much to be concluded. This isn't exactly a new story, that the municipalities are having a hard time financially. We know that this has been going on for over a decade and quite a few parties in this Chamber have been doing or not doing these structural reforms. Ageing and urbanisation are not exactly measures in the days of today and this government. In a few moments, we will move on to this structural reform, that is to say the next legislative proposal, which is already starting to envisage an alternative to what could be done. So the municipalities are still responsible for their own finances on this backboard, and if it is tight, you can apply for a two-year postponement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u107	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u108	We shall now proceed to the 10th reading of the item that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u109	Madam President! We have had a little discussion here with Mr Kiljune, who is known as an active and skilled representative. He called for concrete reforms, and I would like to mention the fact that all around Finland, this may not be the case with the fastest growing municipalities, but with such central regional centres and certainly municipalities where the majority of the population will eventually live, so the age group of the seven to 13-year-olds will be reduced by 20% over the next ten years, i.e. by a fifth, and this is a huge structural issue, given that, in this very time, many municipalities and cities are struggling with the reform of the school network and school buildings, for example. Many school properties are of precisely the age of the need for either extensive renovation or the construction of entirely new buildings. And when such projects are carried out, their technical life span is at least 70 years if not longer, and in this sense, when we see the future very clearly already ten years away, that at that time one in five schools is so categorically present, you could say, needless, when there are one fifth fewer pupils than at present, such questions are big structural questions that must be put to a sustainable model. In this sense, when it may be that for municipalities many such structural solutions are such painful places where decisions have to be made, which certainly do not please all residents, then the fact that the state gives even more line to what kind of economic assortment and loan laws are necessary for the future is not always a good thing. Madam President! I am not, of course, opposed to this reform, which is taking place, and Mr Paatero has already pointed out here that this is only on the basis of an application and only in relation to the fact that the situation of coronavirus pandemic has led to this additional deficit for the municipalities. But all in all, I want to call for responsibility for future generations here in Parliament and, of course, for each of us then as municipal decision-makers in our own municipalities. I want decisions to be made in Finland that, in the 2050s, the decision-makers then believe that there were wise and far-sighted decision-makers in Finland in the 2020s, both at the national level and in municipalities and cities around the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u110	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. And here too, as in the past, 30 minutes are set aside for this referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u111	Mr President! This proposal is therefore about amending the Municipal Structures Act, and we already have a sentence in the Government Programme that changes in the municipal structure are supported voluntarily, so that obstacles are removed, particularly from the economic side. At the moment, we have a situation where the change in the municipal structure can be supported and supported — at this point there has been one, that is to say Honkajoki — Kankanpää — so that we have either one or one of the municipalities already in the evaluation process or almost in the evaluation procedure. Article 56 We are currently in use. The previous model, from which the last money has been paid in 2017, was then in the Municipal Structures Act, when all voluntary associations of municipalities could also be supported, and that is why it was thought that the law is now being brought back to this model, which has been paid for the last time since then under the Best Law and since then until 2017. That is why we have a proposal for this option. I think I already said yesterday that my suspicion is that, due to the war and perhaps the interest rate, there will be proposals in the municipalities when the new councils start, that it would be possible to pool resources and get bigger shoulders in the provision of municipal services. So here we are bringing a proposal for discretionary support. There is no automatic system for this to be created so that the size of the combinations can provide a ‘one-time run’ amount, but it is always considered. In any case, the minimum amount is EUR 500000, i.e. half a million, and the minimum amount, if more than two municipalities, is EUR 1 million. This presentation received a great deal of support in the feedback. The words used were that ‘this is necessary’, ‘this is justified’and ‘this is appropriate’. But the point to which criticism came is that this is within the limits of the state budget. At the moment, we have had the EUR 10 million for this reunification of crisis groups, but I must say, with regret, that there has been only one of them, the Honkajoki-Kankanpää. Currently, the following studies are ongoing in Central Finland. We therefore have the opportunity to use this amount of EUR 10 million, and the criticism that was related to it was that it was taken from the whole of the state budget. According to the statement, it would have been better to have some other route, i.e. a separate one on top of the state. My own idea is that, at any rate, these can be increased on the part of the State by means of amending budgets if we have these plans for the unification of municipalities. But they are long processes, so at the moment we do not know which ones we could even prepare for, but I believe that these, hopefully, will move forward. This decision-making always goes so that it is prepared by the Ministry of Finance and then, by decision of the Government, these subsidies for these municipal mergers can be granted. The second thing is that when municipalities merge, there are sometimes situations where the present state shares fall. If two municipalities are added together and the municipalities are combined, it is less, and there is also a will in this bill that this will not happen, but in the next three years that State participation will remain the same as the separate state contribution of the two or three municipalities. That is why I believe that this is also a carrot, because for some I have received feedback that it is not worth making municipal mergers when the central government shares fall, so that this part can also be made easier. It has not been estimated how much this will increase municipal mergers, but it has been clear from the feedback received that if municipal mergers are not supported, they will become even less, and less than zero is quite little.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u112	Mr President! This change in the Law on Local Government Structures now includes the name ‘structural reform’, which was now being discussed — structural reforms that could lead to an increase in the size of the local government Mr President! I am prepared to recognise the need for municipalities to voluntarily join together, and I am also identifying the need for these consolidation processes to be supported. Instead, if the President allows — and I am sure he will — I would use a somewhat more principled and perhaps a little heretic approach from the point of view that we have now established ourselves as a mantra in Finland to apply for municipal mergers from the point of view of the economy of greatness, and many other consolidation processes are carried out in the sense that the mere size would clearly create economic savings. What's the heretic angle? Because there are, in any case, other key values for people — citizens, local residents — than just the economy. We look at the perspective of the economy. Identity is a very important issue and an issue and I think that, as political decision-makers, we should also be able to respect the fact that people have a need for their own identity — their locality, place of birth, place of residence — and we should not, in all circumstances, favour the mere fact that this magnitude determines, economics determines, everything. I recognize that we have different municipalities in Finland, from Kökar’s 300 inhabitants to Helsinki — the capital region is, of course, already a million inhabitants — here we know very well, we have different sizes of municipalities. But in general, the thinking that we want to create such large-scale solutions is often producing a result that I am not sure about at all, and that is what I would of course like to ask the Minister if it will even generate financial savings. There was a representative, Mr Laakso, who is from Kouvola and comes from just one of the cities outside — now I look at your housekeeping without any feeling at all — that is an artificial whole, a little like Salo. Artificial idealization of greatness creates some population groups, but in any case that as a whole does not seem reasonable anymore. As we move from the new land to Elimäki, we come to Kouvola. Hamina is now a neighbouring city of Kouvola, and when driving from Hamina to Luumä, Kouvola is also met, even though we are already in South Karelia. This seems strange that we have such a Grand Kouvola, and I would like to ask Mr Laakso, who is well aware of the situation in his city, whether this solution has brought substantial savings. In any case, I know that when I constantly have to move around those areas myself, the people who live in the present Great-Kouvola do not recognise this Kouvola as their own in this form. But for them, Anjalankoski has his own thing. For them. Kuusankoski may be his thing, Kouvola and so on, Elimäki and so on. So now we may have gone too far just to encourage these municipal mergers without thinking about the whole that comes out of this. I still recognise, Minister, the need for this to make sense in certain circumstances. If crisis municipalities and those who do not get along find each other in a sensible way and can combine resources, it will be supported, but not, in a way, forced to push forward the fact that municipal union, municipal union, municipal union, is the solution to many problems — that is not it. In that sense, this social reform is a good example of how we recognise the need for bigger shoulders, and we are creating a new type of entity that will take control of this region. In this respect, one could perhaps even estimate that the social welfare reform would help us not to force smaller municipalities to pull together but to give people that space. I was born in Ruokolahti, and I am glad that Ruokolahti is an independent municipality. We can truly experience it this way. So many other citizens experience it the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u113	Mr President! In the same way, perhaps I will continue to reflect, but perhaps from a slightly different point of view from Mr Kiljunen. All in all, the government must be commended for supporting local government finances, because now that the budget is being drawn up in many cities and municipalities, there is a spring package as well as the autumn package and the drafting of 21 budgets in a very different position. Well, then to the last part. — Mr Autto, I think it is a good reflection on what this transfer of the obligation to cover the deficit will do. — In the worst case scenario, it can cause a snowball phenomenon, but a necessary tool is absolutely necessary, and I support the tool in this situation, where the municipalities are now, overall. And if you think about it from the point of view of municipal funding then 23 when there is still a lot of social work coming up here and the blocks of municipal and social funding are being distributed, then it is interesting to see what is happening in the municipality field with regard to this structure. Well, then to voluntary municipal mergers. I am definitely in favour of them. It is essential that there are sufficient incentives and carrots. In the beginning of the 2010s, I have scored four joint municipal teams, and when there is a will and a common vision, they will be good, but it will really require those carrots and the removal of those obstacles. The municipal union is good even from the point of view of residents and creates wider shoulders. At that point, whenever a partner is in crisis or is in crisis municipality proceedings, there can always be partners very far away and, of course, there are no preconditions for its municipal merger, and those procedures, as Mr Kiljunen said, I certainly do not want to do. Let us hope that, in this big change, this will now cause the movement to reflect on local government funding and the municipal-war relationship, and also on the municipal level, if only some municipalities could do things together. Personally, I very much believe that this is a tool for that and, of course, a tool for this situation as well. Well, then to this question of identity. I do not believe that it will have a major impact, but what would have happened if the municipal restructuring of the Katainen government had been carried through?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u114	Mr President! It is interesting to continue here, in fact, where Mr Eskelinen's good speech decided that what would have happened if a municipal reform had been carried out in Finland. We would certainly have a much stronger municipal field to face these difficulties which we, as a nation, are facing not only because of this pandemic situation, which, of course, exacerbates everything, but also because of the structural challenge we face. But, indeed, this could be dismantled for a much longer time. After all, Finnish municipalities have been a brilliant invention in themselves. And what was created by the municipal decree of 1865 — that, on the basis of the geographical division of congregations, such a local government was created, in which the local people jointly handle all the things that it makes sense to do together — has been a huge success story, and the Finnish municipalities have been very much involved in the fact that, a couple of years ago, when Finland from the world was viewed and congratulated on 100 years of state independence, no more or less was considered of the world than the best country in the world. In this respect, it is of course important that we also thank the previous generations for what has been done to promote municipal activity. But indeed, at that time the division of congregations was chosen as the basis for geographical division, and it was then reasonable — the church in the middle of the village, as it is customary to say, and at that time it was a natural, everyday - size community. If the choice had hit the old administrations, for example, there would still be no need for municipal structural reform because the geographical areas would be so extensive. But it is a good thing that in time this division of congregations was chosen, which has served as appropriate sized entities to this very day. But, Mr President, it is obvious in this time that when people's ability to move around and the needs that the municipalities have when they organise today's services are quite different from what they are saying, 30 or 50 years ago, let alone 150 years ago, it is clear that a positive dynamic of this kind would be needed for the municipal structure, which would bring municipalities together into stronger entities, and thus the real self-government of the citizens, which is enshrined in the Constitution, could be realised everywhere in Finland. And in this respect, of course, we must also thank the predecessor of current Minister Paatero, Minister Mannis, for his Best project. It is probably the best project to reform the municipal structure in recent decades, it is the only one that has tangible results.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u115	Mr President! As a matter of fact, I'd be happy to take it from here. When asked and discussed aloud what would have happened or where would have been if the municipal reform had taken place, we can say with considerable certainty at least that Finland would have been ready or more ready, much more prepared in these municipalities to face the clear major challenges that the demographic structure presents us with which we cannot escape. In other words, the decline in the birth rate, which was not known at the time, dramatically alters the demographic structure and also the funding base for the future of municipalities, the service needs and so on, but above all, this ageing Finland and the growth in the need for services that will follow is not surprising to us. This has been known for a long time, and these difficulties in the municipalities at hand have not been created during this government, neither the previous one nor the previous one, but are long-term developments. It always saddens me how it happens in politics that crises are handled successfully in this Chamber too. For example, even now while treating emergency relief packages in municipalities that survive this or next year, and making such temporary laws that are able to buy a little time and oxygen to make. But when we have to solve these big structural issues and face the challenges ahead, unfortunately, in these matters we have, in recent years, a weaker book, regardless of the government base and government. I would like to see the truth seen in the eyes of this municipal structure in particular, that when we start to have an increasing number of municipalities, which simply do not cope with statutory tasks and which see enormous expenditure pressure, growth and, for example, no more class children, in these situations, for example, structural reforms would rather be justified than afterwards. So it's getting to be the last few moments. That is why I welcome the fact that the government is creating incentives, although still rather sparsely and quite modestly. It is a good thing that there is such a pot of money that can be supported by municipal mergers, but when the Minister has already said so well, one municipality has so far been using, and there has not been a queue of applicants, it raises the question of what other means we might have. What is the government doing about this now to speed up changes in the municipal structure? I think that if the municipal reform had taken place in the past, we would not need this debate on socialism. We would have been able to move forward on a municipal basis, and that is still possible, and I hope,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u116	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Kiljunen took a pretty good speech just now. I can tell you that in Kouvola the municipal union has certainly not been very helpful financially, because the truth is that men are expected to come with a black car, a government car, unless a couple of years are now requested to postpone it. It is pointless for anyone to look back, but now afterwards you can see where the problem is, which no one knew then, neither me nor anyone else. Making savings like this became difficult precisely because of the municipal merger. Now there are people in the council from every area of the old town. You can't, there's always the people in the area where you're born, where you're going to close down the swimming hall, where you're going to close down the school, or what you're going to do. Never, even within the parties, can a compromise be reached on what should be done. I have noticed that the problem is now that there is a certain part of the city — we, too, practically had a few cities in a challenging economy before the union of municipalities came — where they would still have made the structural savings of their own people, their own village, and they would have made them in their own group. We don't have our own people now. Because still, if it is said in this way that the Anjalankoski should be mentioned, then there, even within Anjalankoski, the Mushians are the Mushians, and the Inks are the Inks, and in Kuusankoski the Cushans are the Cushians and the buttery ones are the buttery ones. Even if you give me a fist, it doesn't change. The situation is that the identity that exists there — we now have ten years of experience of it, and it has not changed much in the last ten years. There in certain Facebook groups and such are called for that sense of community, but when it remains just a matter of speech. I, too, think we should sort of forget about that thing, but it just doesn't go away. Now the problem is that I myself have been in the Council and tried to come up with solutions to make these savings there, that is the problem of making savings. It's precisely because of that municipal merger that it's so difficult right now. If we were to talk about the old Kouvola case, we would certainly be able to get it to the finish line quite easily, but now the parties are no longer fighting each other, but the people in the area are fighting each other. So it's party politics, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u117	Mr President! When I followed this introduction and the opening discussions in that study, it was necessary to go out with my own ideas to bring to this fine performance, which has now been brought to this Chamber for discussion under the leadership of Minister Paatero. It makes this municipal debate so much easier when you understand that the municipality is a community of citizens, and that is when the local authorities themselves decide what matters to their own community. In my opinion, Mr Laakso was quite skilful in describing this equation, that is, when a municipal citizen feels that he is a member of a municipality, that membership will not immediately be forgotten, even though there is a coercion or something else connected it to a larger municipality or one of the economically more prosperous municipalities in order to cope with the responsibilities given to the municipality. There are other good examples, such as Kouvola, but as has already been mentioned here in the speeches, this problem of local government finances has not come within moments. This is a very long-term problem, a crisis in local government finances, for which these solutions are now being sought through these municipal mergers. In the meantime, there has been talk of forced marriages and attempts have also been made to search for these voluntary models. For a very long time, the centre line has been this voluntary model, precisely for this reason, that local residents are members of their own community and must be allowed to decide whether to take austerity measures or to seek wider shoulders together with their neighbours. In a large part of Finland there is currently a situation where where the municipality joins, when the neighbour is in an equally weak economic situation, and then there are these cases that when two poor people are put together, then there is one really poor one. A good example is here Oulu, which is a big city, made big connections some time ago. Yes, Oulu is in such an economic swamp at the moment that at least the union of municipalities did not improve the situation in Oulu in any way. Even in Oulu, the criteria of the crisis city are about to be knocked out, which is a good example of a bad model. Another example of this strong identity comes from Kalajoki, to which the Municipality of Rautio has been attached almost 50 years ago. To this day, the people of Rautio are of the order, and there the spirit of rebellion will be stimulated if the school is abolished from the present village, the former municipality. So this identity is so strong that in my opinion this kind of coercion is also very difficult especially if it is controlled from above. A voluntary solution of this kind and a carrot suitable for it — a solution that will certainly achieve much, much better results than coercion and guidance from above.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u118	And now, Minister Paatero.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u119	Mr President! Thank you for your contributions. This is indeed a carrot, i.e. an incentive not to reduce state subsidies, to block them out here, or, on the other hand, to the cost of change where the municipalities are combined, to receive aid. These amounts of aid, as stated here, will not be very large, but in many cases they have also made good progress in the Parasites mentioned earlier, even though they have not been large in euros. All in all, this is about equality between citizens on the one hand, when these combinations of municipalities are made, because as valuable as municipal self-government is, even more valuable is the equality of citizens in access to services, and if it seems to be the case that this is at risk, then the decision-makers will wonder how best to achieve the services. At this point, the problem has been that the income base of the municipalities — although the central government shares have, of course, been increased over the years, sometimes even reduced, but the income base of the municipalities has been reduced in terms of tax revenue, and the issues that have been identified here, in particular the ageing population, in which case the tax revenue will be reduced, the migration to cities, where tax revenues will be reduced, and many other reasons. And because the municipality is already in an unreasonable situation so that it is unable to provide those services, hopefully this can be a solution. Let me say this once again: when I have followed international examples, like the rest of you, in all the other Nordic countries and Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, this same thinking is being done everywhere, how the municipalities themselves, for example, would respond to the whole educational chain and be of the size of not only the criteria for social welfare and health services, but also that upper secondary schools could be organised. Thank you for your support, and this is now going to the House.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u120	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u121	We will now resume the debate on item 11 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u122	Madam President! We, too, missed a debatation with Mr Kiljunen in relation to this municipal structure law. I would like to say very briefly that, indeed, there are also examples of truly successful strategic municipal mergers in Finland — for example, my own home town, Rovaniemi, as one such example. In fact, Rovaniemi’s strategic municipal alliance is very different from many of these other municipal mergers brought about by the Best project in recent years, since it was launched even before there was even knowledge of this project, the Best project, which has proved to be quite successful by Hannes Manninen itself. In Rovaniemi, therefore, the municipal union entered into force at the beginning of 2006, and the new city that was born since then has been fairly migratory each year, one might say, by nearly half a thousand inhabitants per year. In this respect, the development has been dramatic compared to the fact that, prior to this strategic municipal union, both municipalities were loss-making, the population decreased and the vitality was not at all what it has been since this reform. In this respect, Madam President, I think it is absolutely essential that in those places where there is such foresight and the will to build wider shoulders to bear the burdens and wider shoulders of the future to develop the vitality of the region, financial support can now be directed, as if as a carrot, at making good decisions. It is also important that this law should allow these state-owned cutters not to be formed so that such a union of municipalities, which is justified in terms of the functioning of the region itself, the smooth functioning of daily life, the dynamics of the economy, would not fail when it caused such a drastic cut in the share of the state. So this is a very good bill to promote these voluntary strategic municipal mergers, for which I am sure there is an order all over Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u123	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. And here, too, a maximum of 30 minutes is set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u124	Mr President! This proposal proposes to extend until 31 October 2020 the validity of the Act on temporary derogations from the Unemployment Protection Act in force as a result of the covid-19 epidemic until the end of 2020. The aim is to ensure the livelihood of employees in situations where employment ends temporarily or completely, and to support the reception of work and the regional mobility of labour. The proposal proposes to extend the temporary changes aimed at simplifying the provisions on unemployment benefit in certain circumstances, thereby reducing the workload required for examining the application for benefits. The proposals for streamlining the provisions concern certain situations of reconciliation of unemployment benefit and the payment of unemployment benefit as an advance without a decision. In addition, the proposal proposes temporarily to continue with the increased protection component of EUR 500, i.e. the proportion of earnings not taken into account in the payment of the adjusted unemployment benefit. It is also proposed to extend the temporary derogation from the condition for full-time commuting. The changes will increase unemployment security expenditure by an estimated EUR 11.2 million. This is mainly due to the continuation of the temporary increase in the unemployment benefit component. For the rest, changes are estimated to have minor economic effects. During the Covid-19 epidemic, a number of other temporary changes have been made to unemployment protection legislation. These changes will be valid until the end of 2020. As a result of the interest-rate crisis, the number of people benefiting from unemployment benefits remains exceptionally high. That is why the extension of the temporary derogations now being presented is justified. The laws are intended to enter into force on 1 November and to be provisionally in force until the end of 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u125	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Pekonen, for the speedy entry of legislation into this Parliament, now that it has been seen that unfortunately this corona situation has not made this easier in the autumn, as was said then in the spring, if it were better. We went a little easier at times, but now it is time to fight again, and it also requires measures to ensure that people's unemployment benefit is decent and that people can be helped. I hope, of course, that these renewals will no longer be necessary after Christmas, but I do hope that there will also be a strong provision in the Ministry for the continuation, that we will then be able to react quickly to a situation which may change one way or another. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u126	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be set aside for the referral. The procedure agreed on for scheduled items will be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u127	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the Patient Insurance Act and the Employment Pensions Act so that, from the point of view of the beneficiary, compensation for loss of earnings under the Patient Insurance Act is returned to secondary to occupational pensions. The proposal clarifies the status of the injured person as the employment pension institution would issue a pension decision without any reduction and the Patient Insurance Centre would issue a compensation decision only in respect of the person exceeding the amount of the occupational pension. The proposal completely removes the financial liability for patient insurance in respect of the old-age and survivors' pensions affected. However, an employment pension institution must be entitled to apply to the Patient Insurance Centre for the amount of disability pension and rehabilitation benefit it has paid back. The proposal will have an impact on the cost of compensation for patients' insurance, thereby reducing the cost of patient insurance for public health care. In addition, the proposal clarifies the obligation to provide patient insurance and makes certain legal clarifications to the patient insurance law. The proposal is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u128	Mr President! At first I thought that I would be wise to remain silent, but when there is personal experience in the family of this patient injury law and its functioning and coordination with the employment pension laws, I must thank the Minister that at last and finally this issue becomes clearer because it is extremely sad to be caught up in the cycle of recovery and resolution that has often been and has been easy to deal with. When the process of harming a person ends up with having to deal with all the authorities and operators in these matters, humanity often disappears. Thanks for the clarification.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u129	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 17/2020 vp. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u130	Mr President! As there may still be hopes that Mr Pekonen will hear what is being said here, I would like to raise some very important issues. These are, after all, the statements in the report, which have been protested. Indeed, this first statement that ‘the Council of State calls for a legislative amendment to be prepared by the Council of State,in order to make it possible forcoron dogs to be used as official dogs and The University of Helsinki, which has studied this issue — and there the research team has also trained these dogs to operate at this stage, especially at Helsinki Airport, where there would be very large volumes of passengers in the normal situation, and even in this situation where we are now, there is such a kind of human flow that it is precisely there that very fast and very precise testing activities can be done about these things — that this is a very good way to detect the people who are carrying the virus and who can also soon become infected with this disease caused by the virus. In this respect, all the measures required by law to increase this use of corsets should now be taken, and the government should certainly now provide additional resources for all those who do this really, really important and impressive work so that this use can be extended. I personally see that this is a very central part of how to get safely to open up society and, indeed, at an early stage to help people who may be getting sick, to avoid crowds, so that they are by no means able to spread this virus and to be on guard against its own illness. So, all the support for the coronas. This second proposal, Mr President,that ‘the Member State requires that the government alsouses the capacity and know-how of the private sector in testing and tracing when it has a cost-effective effect’ is This is something the government should have done from the very beginning of the spring, and now, for example, at this stage, when Christmas tourism should be able to safely make possible, these antigenic rapid tests should be introduced. The private sector could offer them so that tourism could be opened up completely safely, but unfortunately the government has not wanted to do so for some reason, and now it is very important that both statements can be made as a Parliament's will and that the government of the country should also take them up. I hope that this message from here will also be passed on to the House for these parliamentary debates, when the parties now over the government-opposition line are considering how to proceed. Mr President! Finland has been a model country for all kinds of preparedness, and yes, this kind of preparedness and security of supply involves harnessing not only the public sector but also all the resources of the private sector to meet and overcome the common crisis. This is very important if this is to be done better in the future. I understand, Mr President, that there is still time for Friday to continue this debate, which is to say that specific proposals will be made at that time — and that is the case — so I will not make a proposal now, but I strongly support these objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u131	I have just seen, and although I have just told you that five-minute speeches, that still means that we are talking about this toilet. When we talk about the place, let's stick to it in three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u132	Mr President! I stayed here just as I listened to Mr Autto's excellent speech. I would say enough about these coronas that they have received greetings from the government, and STM has also been involved in supporting this experiment, which has been in use at the airport. Of course, the results of this study are expected, but it seems that international interest is also very strong in relation to these coronas and, of course, the interest in extending the activity not only to Europe but also to the world. So we're wrestling with common problems here. In the same way, this testing capacity has, of course, been very much on the agenda of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and, of course, in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which is, of course, the smart use of all the resources of society. It may also be necessary to say what I myself have seen in the practical field as an everyday example of these information systems, their dating, that we should gradually begin to get this whole system of ours in order. There are a lot of challenges and problems right now, which will cost us a lot of euros by doing nothing. — But thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u133	Mr. Speaker! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considered this additional draft budget to be justified and necessary quite unanimously. There were then these backseats proposed by the Assembly, but in fact the same things were speeded up in the committee's report as a whole. The committee noted that ‘the principle decision fully covers the costs associated with the increase in testing capacity. The committee stresses that testing must be carried out in a cost-effective and high-quality manner. It is also important that the monitoring of the use of the resources allocated to testing is consistent and comprehensive.” We specifically heard experts from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health on how to speed up the introduction of these rapid tests. They may not always be cheaper in all situations, but in any case they would provide a quicker solution to this improvement in the health of air transport. Similarly, this use of dogs raised the question of whether it can be increased and reliably helped in the situation at airports. These follow-up measures are in progress so that we can really move forward. Internationally, IATA, the Air Safety Federation, seems to be very confident that these reliable, rapid tests will be widely used and will be key to the normalisation of air traffic. But, of course, this timetable is still uncertain whether it will take weeks or months or six months before such large-scale rapid tests are put in place. But it's the right way. It is precisely in this context that the Committee on Finance's proposal is not to make very expensive contracts with this model if we get cheaper and more functional models in the coming months, that this money should not be tied to a model which is perhaps too slow and expensive in its entirety.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u134	Mr President! I'll be brief. In this regard, the chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen, spoke very much of the wide-ranging discussion that has taken place there in the Committee on Budgets. In fact, I would like to say from this rapid antigen test that the cost would be only a fraction of what this PCR test would cost. And really even Finnish methods and the equipment that Finnish operators already have at their disposal in health care can deliver results within 10 to 15 minutes. Of course, it is not quite as fast as this, that the dog smells immediately, yet we talk about a reasonable time. This would guarantee truly health-security tourism and enable Finnish, of course private, health actors to start this approach immediately. There is therefore no obstacle to the country's government not being able to allow, for example, Christmas tourism in Lapland or otherwise to open up society more so that, at the same time, we prevent the virus from spreading, control the epidemic and guarantee a health-security framework, which will then allow the national economy's wheels to rotate as well. There are two absolutely essential aspects to this pandemic. It is true that public health will be safeguarded, but it is just as important that the economy should be safeguarded so that we have bread in the coming months and years. But I think that will be enough, Mr President, for now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u135	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u136	Mr President! In short, only this obligation to build a charging system for electric cars. That objection by the Assembly is certainly well founded. Of course, we can see world-wide that electric cars will become more widespread, traffic will be electrified, but there must be a certain realism here, so that such a small nation as Finland, who cannot alone determine the path these technological solutions and standards will take, will not now be able to commit its national wealth in an entirely unreasonable way to technical solutions which, in the end, will not necessarily prove right in terms of what these future technological solutions for zero-emission transport will be and, if this is the case, Mr President, I will briefly describe, for example, the fact that, with the best technology available today to electrify the whole world's fleet of cars, it would take 866 years to mine sufficient amounts of cobalt, so that the world's car base will be electrified, so that everyone understands that this is an illogical one — one side of the equations must change and, in fact, change so much so much so that it can not be the same equation as it would be. In this sense, that objection to the Assembly is, however, more justified than this report from the committee. And yes, I am in favour of moving towards emission-free driving and less-emission driving in Finland than we are now, but the sense and the patience must be involved all the time. In the final analysis, however, Finnish work is always an ecological act on a global scale, and if we tighten the screws too much in Finland so that working here becomes unprofitable, for example because it is no longer worth travelling to work in the future, then global emissions are likely to increase when jobs are done in countries where, for example, the emission factor for electricity generation is several times higher than in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u137	Mr President! In order to save the time of both the President, the Minister, the staff and the representatives, I would like to say that we have objected to this matter. And for a short hymn, I would like to present a motion for rejection in accordance with protest 1 and a motion for a statement containing an objection, which reads: ‘The Parliament requires that a proposal be submitted to the Board of Directors,in order to ensure that the voluntary nature of the housing companies is based on the need for a surveypoint in the context of other renovations. “ Today, this proposal as a whole is too binding and has many problems, particularly the weakness of cost assessment and so on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u138	Mr President! Representative Autto told us that the equation does not work in the extraction of cobalt, but equally that equation will not work in the amount of electricity. In other words, if we move to Finland, as in many other cases, to electrification in both heating and cooling and so on, and then the number of electric cars will increase strongly, the need for electricity will increase dramatically, so that we will need even more imported electricity from abroad, so when we look at this globally, we think of electricity from Sweden, so Sweden will make the same moves as we do here, and kappas, which is not necessarily the case for the Swedes to sell us electricity. In other words, before such a heavy increase in electricity is caused, we should be able to raise the amount of electricity we produce, because the fact that we are moving on to the other side of the eastern border, so silly, I wonder if we had a good climate objective after all. But without further ado, I support Mr Peltokangas' excellent presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u139	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u140	Mr President! After all, Parliament approved 18.12. In 18 C.E., the law on light cars included a wide range of different laws, including amending the vehicle law, amending the driving licence law and so on. The President of the Republic confirmed the laws on 18 January 2019 and ordered them to enter into force on 1 November 2019. It then became clear, however, that in the context of the preparation of the relevant regulations and regulations, there are problems with the proposal in relation to EU legislation that the entry into force of the relevant laws should be postponed until the problems relating to the proposal could be resolved. The Government proposal relating to the entry into force of the laws was submitted to Parliament. The proposal proposes to postpone the entry into force by one year. Parliament approved the transfer of entry into force on 16 October 2019. In its own report, the Committee on Transport and Communications considered it necessary for the Ministry of Transport and Communications to take all necessary steps to find solutions. The President of the Republic confirmed the laws of October 25th. Following unsuccessful negotiations, Commission Decision 26.8. this year it is stated that Finnish light-duty vehicle legislation is contrary to EU law from the Commission's point of view and the Commission will not exempt Finland from the scope of the Driving Licence Directive. In its reply, the Commission stated that it was planning to reform the Driving Licence Directive in the coming years and, in the context of its reform work, the issue of reducing the age limit will be reviewed, also taking into account the specific needs of sparsely populated areas. I believe that the above-mentioned legislation on light cars adopted by Parliament on 18 December 1818 must come into force on 1. Similar provisions need to be added to the new Road Traffic Act on 1 November this year. It is essential, above all, to significantly improve the safety of young people in road transport. Light-duty vehicle safety technology is much more advanced than, for example, in young people’s popular mopeds and ATVs. The government must actively and without delay continue negotiations with the Commission on the reform of the Driving Licence Directive, in particular, because the Commission itself declares its will and needs for the revision of the Directive. This puts an end to the conflict between Finnish and EU legislation. That is why I propose and propose that the government's proposal to abolish the laws on light cars, namely the Government's proposal 128/2020 vp, be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u141	Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. It's an act made by a fool. As far as this matter is concerned, as we have discussed on several occasions in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we know, of course, that there is quite a long history of this matter during that previous term of government, but now that we have gone through and dealt with it, I have also seen for myself that the government has not turned over all the stones here and in the way it has conducted the negotiations to ensure that they have had a genuine political will to resolve this issue. Of course, this is only my view, but given that Sweden, as if such light cars were in use, does have a completely different legal background from that of us here in Finland, and while, as Mr Tolvanen said, this reform of the driving licence directive is on the way, I think there would be some way out of this, and I am disappointed that the outcome is now this way. In fact, the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Minister of Communications have now gone through the easier way, which is, as it were, not going through this final stage. I hope that, in the future, we will then be able to find a way forward, because, as we have pointed out in our protest, this situation is currently fairly varied with regard to the drivers and other types of transport. Of course, these light cars as speed restricted vehicles would have been especially in those regions, in small towns or in urban agglomerations with excellent means of transport and safer means of transport for young people than they have today. Mr President! These are now briefly, as it were, from the point of view of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u142	Mr President! Here, Mr Tolvanen and Mr Marttinen spoke well, and that is certainly not why we need to make very long speeches. This is a very important point of view that emerges in this motion for rejection, and that is what I support. We must firmly strengthen the road safety of young people, the possibility for young people to move, and now that this digital leap, which has been taken up by Finnish society this year, is likely to lead to an increasing number of families becoming more interested in being located in different parts of the country, and probably in very sparsely populated areas, the key question will be that there is a safe school path for children, even at a time when it is inevitable that, for example, the school trip will begin to lengthen, because it is a safe road for hobbies at a time when children start to go a little further away. When we know how dark the autumn night and the night are on the road, and there moped drivers are in really dangerous situations among other traffic, it is certainly safer to have a light car like this when you are in a real car with safety equipment. Mr President! There have been a lot of feedback during the process of this law, and we have also had to read some really sad news about young people's accidents on the road, and also about the indifference of young people who have received a card before the age of 18, about road safety, and there is no doubt that we in the decision-makers should also pay attention to these issues, so that the transport culture is also a safety-promoting factor. But I believe that this law should in itself be maintained in order to make it as safe as possible for those young people whose daily lives need to move along the road.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u143	Mr President! Indeed, I absolutely agree with the rejection motion made by the National Coalition Party and us Finns. I have to say that it is great that there is such cooperation with the people of the United States on this issue, and I hope that in the future it will be possible to draw such things out with determination and actually challenge the EU in those matters, because, as you can see, it does not always work very rationally, and many times the situations are such that there are other things behind it than the matter itself. Here, too, that road safety — everyone knows that the decision-makers in the EU certainly do not disagree with this safety issue; that is something else. Indeed, I support Mr Tolvanen's rejection proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u144	Mr President! It would be great to be in line with the Coalition Party and the Finns of Finland in order to get light cars in this country, as previously sought and the timetables presented, but unfortunately it has not now been successful on the EU side, and the responsible government will then be forced to present such a proposal and also to listen to some aspects — some aspects he has raised in connection with this proposal. It is also known that the threat that would arise from the fines, possible legal disputes that might arise, so it would be very irresponsible of the government to act in the course of action proposed by the National Coalition Party and the Basic Finns. However, we want to comply with the law and also to avoid the risks of the ongoing fighting and the legal struggle, so let us hope that this matter will now proceed under Haraka's leadership as the directive is being reformed and that the original objectives that have already been pursued by the Sipilä government will also be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u145	Mr President! Now we have to ask Mr Ovaska why we are challenging certain issues. We have still not dealt with certain issues with the EU. There we have been fighting in the EU on a number of issues, but why is such child safety less important to us than, for example, car taxes or distance sales of alcohol or the like? Why are we not able to do what we can do in many, many others? After all, we are on a constant pitch in some kind of twist with the EU about one thing or another.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u146	Mr President! I agree with the previous speaker that we are in a twist and will be in a twist, but, as I said, on this point, for example, the financial risks and judicial processes will certainly be tough, and it will also contribute to what the law enforcement has said about how the government should act. Contrary to that and his instructions, the government should not act. But Finland has taken on a big role in the EU – and that is good – as regards, for example, the development of the rule of law and many other themes, and this government will certainly bring more and more Finnish issues and Finland's interests to the EU, as has already been seen in many places.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u147	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 6/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u148	Mr President! Just briefly, I would like to thank the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for their report. This calcification of fields with plaster is a very good method found, reducing phosphorus loads and thus improving the state of the Baltic Sea. In this respect, I am sure that for all of us Finns, when we get to be proud of our archipelago, this is a cause for joy that these new methods can be introduced in this way through legislation and that the best research data can be used to improve the state of the environment. So it is a very good thing that this issue has been dealt with here in Parliament even during such a pandemic exception.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u149	The 20th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 7/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u150	Madam President! We Finns are very lucky to have the cleanest food in the world and especially good food. Finnish food is safe, and indeed our long, bright summers — or especially our bright summers — and long days make the berries and other plants and cereals grown in Finland especially spicy, so we are very lucky in this respect. Traditionally, Finland’s harsh winter conditions have also ensured that plant protection takes place in Finland as if it were the natural way and other methods of plant protection have had to be used less than in many other places in Europe as well as in the world. This, in turn, has made it possible for our food to contain less pesticide residues, for example, and this is certainly only a positive thing. Well, in recent years we have experienced that winters, especially in southern Finland, have become milder, and obviously this trend seems to continue in the coming years. In this respect, it is important that this legislation on plant protection is constantly up to date both at European level and at national level, so that we will be able to produce clean and safe food successfully in the future. But in this respect we Finns are very lucky, and we should remember to thank the Finnish farmers for the good and important work they do for our daily bread. Thank you also to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for this report. It's a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u151	The 24th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 5/2020 by the Committee on Audit. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u152	Mr President! The report submitted to Parliament in December 2019 includes the audit agency’s assessment of the Government’s objectives for economic and budgetary policy for the current parliamentary term and an assessment of compliance with the central government spending limits and the EU’s Stability and Growth Pact. The Audit Office has not found any objection to compliance with national fiscal legislation. Koronavirus pandemic has influenced the work of Parliament and committee work has focused mainly on corona-linked or otherwise urgent government proposals. Therefore, the report of the Audit Committee on the report on fiscal surveillance 2019 will only be submitted to the plenary session now, during the autumn session 2020. In its report, the committee draws particular attention to the following points: The severe recession caused by the interest-bearing pandemic has led to the introduction of derogation mechanisms for fiscal policy rules at both national and EU level. The general exception clause of the EU Stability and Growth Pact has been introduced on the basis of the severe economic downturn caused by the corona virus situation throughout the EU. The general exception clause has been introduced for the first time and allows for a temporary deviation from the adjustment path towards the medium-term budgetary objective. A mechanism for exceptional circumstances has also been added to the national spending limits rule during the current parliamentary term. The experts consulted by the committee consider the inclusion of the spending limits rule of the Government Programme on the mechanism of exceptional circumstances to be justified. The committee welcomes the fact that the mechanism agreed in the Government Programme will bring flexibility to the spending limits rule in exceptional circumstances. The draft amending budgets decided by the government include extensive measures to deal with the corona epidemic, to curb its spread, to support citizens and businesses, and to support economic recovery. The Committee welcomes the measures taken to curb the negative economic and employment impact of the corona pandemic and to support the security of the health system. The committee also considers it important to take measures to stabilise public finances in the longer term once the immediate crisis has subsided. The employment objective. The severe recession caused by the Koronapandemia poses additional challenges to the achievement of the government's employment target. The Committee considers it important that the preparation of employment measures takes account of the targeting of measures and aspects relating to the quality of new jobs. In the Committee's view, the development of the number of hours worked should be monitored as part of the monitoring of the achievement of the employment objective. Future investments. The Government Programme includes a one-off investment programme of EUR 3 billion. The challenges facing Finland in the future, such as the deterioration of the dependency ratio, the fall in human capital and climate change, can be met with investments. However, experts are critical of the Government's investment package for the future, particularly from two points of view. Firstly, part of the activities identified as future investments can be classified as consumption expenditure. Secondly, experts criticised the financing of future investments through the sale of state assets. In the Committee's view, it is important that future investment should be directed specifically towards projects and targets that support sustainable growth. A few sentences on the government's tax policy and the consolidation of the tax base. The Government Programme's guidelines focus on strengthening the tax base and on sustainable development and climate change mitigation. The characteristics of a good tax system include a concise tax base that allows for reasonable tax rates. The tax base can be summed up, inter alia, by reducing tax subsidies. The number of tax subsidies has increased rather than decreased in recent years, although the reduction of inefficient tax subsidies has been the objective for several parliamentary years. The Committee considers it important that the plan for ex post evaluation of the effects of new tax subsidies should always be carried out as part of the preparation process. The Committee considers that closer tax bases are particularly important in a global economy where cash flows cross national borders. The situation in municipal finances. The income development and tax base of municipalities are hampered by population ageing and urbanisation. The already tense local government finances are weakened by the interest-bearing pandemic and the subsequent measures, although the State softens the impact of the crisis and recession on the local government economy by means of the aid package. The Committee considers it important that local government finances are also taken into account in the preparation of future decisions and measures. In brief, the risks associated with state guarantees. Since 2010, the stock of guarantees has increased from EUR 23 billion to EUR 60 billion at the end of 2019. In international terms, Finland is an exception. In the control countries, the stock of guarantees relative to the size of the economy is not as high and the growth in the stock of the economy has not been as rapid as in Finland. The two main items of government guarantees are export guarantees granted by Finnvera and housing guarantees granted by the State Housing Fund ARA. The measures taken to curb the effects of the Koronapandemia will further increase the level of state guarantees. The Committee believes that the risk management of state guarantees should be further improved in order to better manage the impact of the realisation of risks on the state economy. Knowledge-based decision-making. The committee attaches great importance to informed decision-making and making it possible. Cooperation between Statistics Finland and researchers was highlighted in the committee's expert consultation. The problem, according to experts, is that: Statistics Finland has difficulties in providing research data to researchers within a reasonable time limit. The committee will monitor the situation as it sees it as very important to improve the conditions for informed decision-making, which is not sufficiently supported by the current situation. Finally, briefly, the challenges of the parliamentary term. The Committee believes that, once the corona crisis has subsided, it is important to make a determined effort to meet the long-term challenges posed by ageing populations and climate change. In this context, the Committee also draws attention to the importance of employment in achieving long-term objectives. The Committee notes that achieving significant changes in the employment rate requires major, open-minded and targeted policies. The committee’s proposal is: ‘The Commission does not have any comments on the management of the report. “ - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u153	Mr President! The Audit Committee has done a good job on this report and has dealt very extensively with these various aspects of this report. I would also like to thank Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto for his commitment in the role of chairman of the committee in this matter. Quite briefly, Mr President, I would like to make it my personal point that the State should refrain from selling productive assets, especially if the sale of productive assets is to cover costs such as those which are not investments in other productive activities but more of the current costs of the state and the public sector in general. The financing of so-called future investments of this kind by this means should of course be avoided. There are certainly a wide range of subjects, from which it can be thought that it is good for the state to capitalise on them. One which has been targeted in recent years and will certainly be directed towards capitalisation in the future is, for example, higher education institutions. After all, universities are, in principle, very autonomous. We certainly want the autonomy of universities and universities to strengthen and create the conditions for high-quality research and education and development activities that our universities are doing. In this respect, capitalisation is necessary. But I also think it is very important that this productive state property should not first be sold to the market and then that money would be directed to higher education institutions, and then perhaps in universities that money would be reinvested in shares, but rather that these shares of our state-owned companies would be given directly to universities and universities, so that this ownership base in these companies would, in all probability, be maintained in Finland. And what would be better if our universities are also actively interested in the future success of the key stone legs of our national economy, these large Finnish companies, where the state is also a central owner. In this respect, Mr President, I would see this approach as good. But I really think that the Committee on Audit had done a very good job of drawing attention to this issue in its own report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u154	Madam President! I think that the Audit Office and the Audit Committee have done a very good job here, and I would also like to thank the chairman of the Committee for his presentation. I would like to raise a few points in relation to this budgetary policy and its stance, which has also been well covered here in the committee's report. First of all, about employment: I believe that this employment situation has been realistically examined here, and the Agency also notes that, when assessed on the basis of the employment potential, it will be possible to achieve the employment target if decisive steps are taken to prepare and implement the measures. It is good to remember, however, that the first year and a half of the work of this government is, therefore, behind us, and when we look at the net positive and negative employment decisions, unfortunately, this government is only at the very beginning of this work. What worries me is that this government has built up its entire fiscal stance in such a way that the government programme has agreed on a large increase of more than EUR 1 billion in expenditure, but the revenue side has been left hanging, as it were, to the extent that measures to strengthen employment and thereby increase the revenue base have been left to the question of the fact that they have been put here for various part-time negotiations and tripartite working groups, and it was already seen in the spring that the work will be stretched, and now, for instance, the promotion of local reconciliation will continue to move into that future, and it now seems that these proposals for local agreement will not be presented to the ministers until March 2021. Well, that's not a very ambitious decision, is it? In other words, Madam President, this particular concern relates precisely to the fact that expenditure has been decided first, but there is no information on revenue. So, hopefully now, the government will take a strong look at this and hopefully make the decisions as quickly as possible that will enable the employment rate to be permanently raised again. I will take the floor again on that second point because it seems that the clock is running.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u155	Mr President! Thanks for the thanks. In fact, I should like to thank our committee in particular, which has worked very well together and had a constructive debate here too, and, of course, the experts we have heard very much thank you very much. Thank you for these previous comments on the committee's report. With regard to this increase in expenditure on property income, our committee also felt that it should move forward, because in this market situation, the sale of shares is not appropriate. As far as these employment objectives are concerned, it is true that the government is seeking to achieve its objectives of sustainability of public finances, above all by increasing employment. The experts we have heard now felt that it is very possible to achieve the government's objective, but it also requires big political decisions and, perhaps, difficult decisions and, in particular, targeted policy measures. With regard to education policy: the experts we have heard in it and the committee itself, of course, were strongly of the opinion that Finland should invest in education, and the knowledge-based decision-making that our committee stressed in particular, of course, requires that education be invested at all levels. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u156	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-14-ps-129.u157	Madam President! I'm sorry. It's on an inexperienced congressman. Efforts will be made to improve performance in the future. Madam Speaker! Very briefly, these investments in the future, which also attracted my attention. The committee has dealt with this issue quite comprehensively in my opinion and has raised its criticisms in relation to this whole subject. In my view, this report makes a good point of saying that, at least in part or in many respects, it is perhaps more about consumption expenditure than actual investment in these future investments. This is the point we have drawn attention to in the opposition when this government programme and the budgetary plan have been discussed in this Chamber and in this House. On this issue of the sale of state property and the whole, I also think, like Mr Autto, that it is, however, one of the entities in the state economy that we should go through more in this house. In my opinion, one very sustainable way of using future investment would be to capitalise on universities, and I also think that, in principle, the fact that the state is the owner of listed companies is quite problematic in many respects, and I do not see the state as a very good owner. In fact, in the future, we could make a new round of fundraising, which would combine both public funds and then some factor of corporate financing, could have a very big impact on our higher education field. And above all, what I think is most important: knowing that the coming years and decades will look difficult, we would also have the opportunity to make our universities slightly less dependent on these high and low levels of public finances and to create a certain degree of stability for them too in the future. This seems to me to be something that I would like to see more of this in this House in the future.
