ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Committee on Defence must deliver an opinion. After a presentation by Mr Haavisto, which takes 10 minutes, the debate will take place with regard to the speeches that have been requested in advance, with a maximum of 5 minutes for the group round. The duration of the other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed the same five minutes. During the plenary session, the speeches will be of normal duration, i.e. no more than 3 minutes. A maximum of 1.5 hours shall be reserved for the referral and the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u2	Mr President! A little more peaceful things sometimes. Indeed, Finland is preparing to participate in the preparedness of the German-led EU Battlegroup from the beginning of July to the end of this year. In addition to Germany and Finland, the Netherlands, Ireland, Austria, Croatia, Latvia, Sweden and the Czech Republic participate in this battle group. Before making a proposal for a decision on the capacity of the department, the Government shall consult Parliament by issuing a report in accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act. After consultation of the Parliament, the President of the Republic shall decide on a proposal for a decision of the Government to set up a military division in high readiness. Finland's participation in the Battle Department has been outlined at a joint meeting of the President of the Republic and the Government's Committee of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Parliament has also been informed about this policy. In line with the policy, Finland will set up an armored intelligence team, as part of which the personnel officers of the mini drone team and the national support element. The total strength of the Finnish population is about 80 soldiers. Mr President! The Battle Divisions are designed to strengthen the EU's common security and defence policy and its range of instruments in crisis management. In addition, fighting groups contribute to the development of the military capabilities of the Member States. In general, as a military term, the combat unit refers to a group capable of independent action without external additional or supporting elements. The EU Battlegroup Concept adopted in 2004 provides a general framework for the activities of the EU Battlegroups. A prepared combat unit must be able to begin crisis management tasks in crisis areas within 10 days of the decision to set up a crisis management operation in the EU Council. The political decision to launch the mission can therefore be implemented very quickly if necessary. According to the concept of combat unit, a combat unit could be used for a relatively limited task of limited duration, depending on the size of the combat unit. Support for the UN is a key possible task. The EU Battlegroup can be used either as a separate crisis response team or as part of a wider operation. The maximum duration of the operation of the combat unit in accordance with the concept is four months. Each battle group will have six months to stand by, and at a time the EU will have, in principle, two battle groups. EU combat teams of different groups of countries have been on alert for six months since 2007, i.e. for 13 years, if I count correctly. In the second half of this year, in addition to the German-led combat unit, the Italian-led stand by. Mr President! Then, to this reality, the EU's battle groups have never been used so far in crisis management operations. Why? The main reasons for this have been the lack of a coherent political will in the EU, the issue of financial burden sharing, and the question of the suitability of a stand-by combat unit for a timely crisis management operation. Nor is there any active debate or preparation on the use of the combat unit during its stand-by shift under German leadership. The sending of a combat unit to the mission will be decided separately, and this will require the unanimous agreement of the other EU Member States, as will the common security and defence policy decisions of the EU. The head of the department in readiness has an important role to play in preparing the decision. At this stage, it is difficult to assess whether, in the second half of this year, the EU would be in a position to take a decision on the introduction in the current crisis. The threshold for this has so far been very high. Measures have been discussed in the EU to improve the availability of combat teams. These include, for example, the reform of funding so that less of the cost of using combat teams would be borne by the countries on standby, greater flexibility, advance planning and communication. In Finland’s view, it is essential for the EU’s ability to act that the EU has a genuine readiness to use the rapid response capability. Finland has consistently advocated the use of the combat unit and participated in the contingency shifts. It is also a question of developing the EU's common foreign and security and defence policy and making use of existing instruments for this purpose. Finland has supported reforms aimed at increasing the availability of combat teams. Mr President! The German-led combat unit meets the requirements of the EU Battlegroup Concept and will be able to carry out any crisis management tasks at the start of the contingency shift. The combat unit consists of staff, an landing battalion, a medical battalion, and a maintenance battalion. The total strength of the combat unit is about 4,100 soldiers, most of which is 2,500 from Germany. The costs of Finland’s participation in the training, establishment and preparedness phase have been taken into account in military crisis management appropriations in the 2019 and 2020 budgets and for 2021 in the central government budget frameworks. These costs of setting up, training and preparedness total EUR 5.7 million, including expenditure to be covered by the sections of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence. On the other hand, there is no provision in the draft budget for this year for the possible use of the Battlegroup in operations. In the preparation of a national decision to send a combat unit to the operation, the necessary funding would be sought by means of an amending budget or, in the event of an appropriation, the operation would be proposed to be financed from the reserve of the items. Mr President! The decision to use the forces in readiness for EU operations is always a national decision. In Finland, the decision to send Finnish soldiers to the operation is made in accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act. National decisions on the possible use of EU Battlegroups should be taken and prepared to be taken more quickly than decisions on participation in other military crisis management operations. This includes the prior reporting procedure and the so-called high level of preparedness before the start of the standby shift. Mr President! In the past, Finland has participated six times in the EU battle groups. In 2007 and 2011, Finland participated in battle groups under the leadership of Germany and the Netherlands, in the Nordic Battlegroups led by Sweden in 2008, 2011 and 2015 and in the United Kingdom Battle Division in 2016. Finland’s experience of previous participation in the EU Battlegroup is positive. Involvement in combat department activities is part of Finland’s consistent contribution to the development and implementation of the EU’s common security and defence policy and its concrete contribution to strengthening the EU’s defence dimension. Participation is also supported by Finland’s ambition to implement permanent structured cooperation in the EU and this cooperation includes a commitment to the use of combat teams. From the point of view of national defence, participation in the EU Battlegroups has supported the development of Defence Forces capabilities and interoperability. Participation will contribute to the deepening of bilateral and multilateral defence cooperation with key partner countries. In conclusion, Finland’s participation is estimated to be beneficial both from the foreign and security policy perspective and from the perspective of Finland’s national defence capability.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u3	Secretary Kaikkonen, four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Finland's participation in the combat unit led by Germany has been directed at TP-UTVA on 19 June 2019. On 9 April 20, TP-UTVA agreed to set up a military unit with a high level of preparedness in accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act. In addition to Germany and Finland, the Battlegroup includes the Netherlands, Ireland, Austria, Croatia, Latvia, Sweden and the Czech Republic. Our previous experience of participating in the EU Battlegroup is positive. Participation in the development and maintenance of our crisis management capabilities and Defence Forces capabilities is important. In recent years, the importance of rapid reaction forces has been emphasised in developing and maintaining the capabilities and interoperability of the armed forces. This development will be further strengthened in the future. Recent crises have shown that the Defence Forces’ ability and readiness to respond to rapidly evolving and difficult security threats is central. This objective is also supported by participation in combat teams. Although no combat teams have been deployed, trained personnel on standby have been deployed in crisis management operations after the contingency shift. The German-led combat unit consists of headquarters, an landing battalion, a medical battalion and a maintenance battalion. The overall strength is about 4,100 soldiers, most of whom, about 2,500, are from Germany. The core of the combat unit is an air-propelled mechanized battalion with the strength of some 2,000 soldiers. After Germany the largest participant is Austria with about 550 soldiers. The troops deployed by other participating countries are about 15 to 300 troops. The Finnish department consists of an armored intelligence team with a strength of approximately 60, a mini drone team, 9, a maintenance section, 10, and a staff officer, with a total strength of exactly 82 soldiers. Most of the staff are reservists. The Chief Staff Officers and the heads and/or vice-presidents of different departments are employed by the Defence Forces. The Finnish Armoured Intelligence Team is the only intelligence unit under the command of the Battle Command. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The training of the German-led combat unit went as planned until the outbreak of the COVID-19 epidemic. The training of the main Finnish group was started on 2 January at the Pori Brigade in Säkylä. The training phase ended at the end of April. The Finnish department was due to take part in the European Challenge 2020 exercise in Germany in March, but it was cancelled on 11 March just before the training took place due to the proximity of the epidemic area. The withdrawal of the German exercise does not affect the high level of preparedness of the group on 1.7. From 1 January to 31 The national training to replace the cancelled exercise took place from 13 March to 1 April. Mr President! Finally, since the EUBG 20 stand-by shift, there have so far been no guidelines for Finland's possible future participation in the EU Battlegroups. The Defence Forces have been given the task of investigating in a preliminary manner the capabilities with which the Defence Forces could participate in the preparedness during 24 or 25 C.E., but then any decisions on that will be made in due course. It's not up-to-date right now. Mr. Speaker, one thing at a time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u5	Thank you, ministers. Now for the group discussion round. — 5 minutes, representative of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u6	Mr. Speaker! The Battle Department concept was introduced in 2007, and the departments have been on standby for six months since then. This is the seventh time that we have decided to participate in this readiness. The EU's battle groups have never been used. There may be both good and less good reasons for this. A good reason would be if this fire department had nowhere to be taken away from any fire. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in these years, but there would have been a need for resources in crisis management around the world and in the European neighbourhood. The report realistically states: ‘The most importantresponsible are the lack of a common political will, the issue of the financial burden and the question This refers to the fact that the unit of 1,000 soldiers and at most over 4,000 soldiers, which is what this division of nine countries is about now under German leadership, is a large and inflexible lump. A solution to this problem in the EU is called modularity. The report states that Finland has consistently supported the use of the combat unit and participated in the preparedness exercises six times. Of course, no one wishes for situations where this is needed, but there is reason to prepare for it, and participation in this is far from being out of our national needs, but also to support the development of our own skills. With this Finnish line and the readiness expressed in the report, support for increasing the usability of departments and a positive attitude towards increasing co-financing in military crisis management is the full support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The designation of combat units refers primarily to the size and independence of the unit and not to the willingness to fight, which is not part of the EU’s crisis management tasks. Participation in departments and support for their development is a work supported by Finland to develop the Union's diverse crisis management capabilities. That is why we are involved in the implementation of the common security and defence policy and in the permanent structured cooperation it establishes. This is a common policy for the Union and a strengthening of its capacity to act. Involvement in rural cooperation outside the Union structures also serves the development of our national defence, but our starting point must be that this cooperation is also intended to strengthen the Union as a whole, and we must be careful not to introduce new dividing lines within the Union. As important as it is to maintain and develop these military capabilities, we have now also seen how they do nothing to help in situations such as the COVID pandemic. Therefore, an important lesson is the need to strengthen the EU's cooperation and joint capacity to face and act in such situations, and it is necessary for Finland to take the initiative in developing European civilian crisis management capabilities. Decision-making on the use of departments is always national, and this must continue to be the case, and no country is prepared to pass a decision on the use of its military resources to other actors. For the department to be used, there must first be a comprehensive consensus among the EU countries in the decision-making process of the Union, and when we are part of this decision-making process, a decision cannot be taken without the consent of Finland. Then it must also be understood that if we have seen the Union’s decision-making — and this too can only be done with the consent of Parliament — that it is justified and necessary to use a combat unit in a crisis situation, then we cannot refuse to participate in the operation without losing our credibility and self-respect, even though this always requires a separate decision. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u7	Mr President! Finland will start its six-month stand-by in the EU Battlegroup in July with about 80 troops. This EU combat force has been operational since 2007, but it has never been used, not even since serious terrorist attacks in Europe, for example, when preparedness should have been increased. They can be used, for example, to protect the airport, with a radius of 6000 km from Brussels, but even when an Islamic suicide bomber struck Brussels airport, they were not used. The department pays the taxpayers, and its purpose is to combat and resolve crises. Since it is clearly not wanted to be used, even though money is good enough, the sense and benefit of participating in the Battlegroup can be called into question. Military education or Finland have not benefited significantly from the department. This has mainly been a financial loss, although the intention was good at the beginning of the paper. Mr President! The Finns support the use of Finnish professional soldiers in the world in appropriate situations, i.e. when it is in the interests of social peace and Finland. Such activities include, for example, Finnish crisis management under the auspices of the UN. The Finnish Peacekeeper is valued and professional. As mentioned in the report, this EU combat force has not even been used in crisis management operations. This lack of use is justified, inter alia, by lack of political will and questions of financial burden sharing. This is incomprehensible. In other words, it is well paid for the standby shift, but if the troops should actually be used, then in the participating countries a complaint begins about the cost of the use. Political reasons may be such that the use of the department would have given an overly aggressive impression. Mr President! The report states that the use of the Battlegroup could be facilitated by developing a single funding channel towards the financing model. It has also been discussed to make the troops more flexible in their structure in order to increase the number of troops suitable for different tasks from the voluntary countries. The department has also been flashed to be used as a reserve for EU operations now that Britain is no longer involved with Brexit. Unfortunately, we do not see that the above-mentioned developments would make the Battlegroup more relevant. Experience has to be learned, and long experience shows that the department will not be used. The report states that the EU must have a genuine capacity to use the rapid response capability. But there is no such thing. Proved it. Admittedly, participation in the combat unit was justified in time. I'm sure that's our common vision here. However, predicting the future is particularly difficult, and lessons must therefore be learnt. The report continues to state that participation is part of a coherent contribution to the development and strengthening of the EU's common security and defence policy. We don't agree. It is precisely consistent experience that shows that there is no use for the department. Mr President! In this millennium, the EU has shown itself to be incapable of dealing with crises, whether it be civil matters, money or military use of force. The crisis has been successfully managed in a way that will increase the EU's power, but the sovereignty of sovereign states will be reduced. They want to take this group in the same direction. The report mentions the implementation of ambitious structural cooperation, which would significantly increase the commitment of the Member States. We are not ready for this, and we do not need an EU military alliance any more than we do a federal state. Cooperation between Member States is desirable, but self-determination must be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u8	Mr President! From the world's metropolis, Finland is a distant and small corner in the northern part of the country. On the other hand, the last few months have shown that Finland is by no means isolated from the rest of the world. On the contrary, we are clearly part of the international community. With its international activity, Finland promotes both its own security and stability in the world. Finland has participated in the European Union’s Battlegroup since 2007. So today we are dealing with the seventh round of participation. Already in the planning phase of the Battlegroup in the early 2000s, the Coalition Party has strongly supported this action and the extension of the EU mandate in crisis management matters. Mr President! The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party is that Finland should participate in this activity as before. It is essential for our security that the Defence Forces participate in activities that give us experience of military international cooperation and new expertise in crisis management. The operations of the battle groups shall be conducted in accordance with NATO standards and procedures. There is no conflict between the evolving military capabilities of NATO and the European Union — they strengthen one another and they strengthen European security. As stated in the report, the European Union's fighting forces have so far not been used in crisis management operations. In the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party we hope that this change will be made. Training and preparedness will strengthen the system and the credibility of the European Union if there is a real need for the use of troops. The world is not changing in a safer direction. There is a sudden outbreak of crises, and unforeseen situations need to be reacted quickly. To this end, an EU Battlegroup was established. Rapid action means that the combat forces must be on the mission area within 10 days of the EU's decision to use them. Preparedness is maintained for operation. Crisis management aims to extinguish fires around the world. Fires will not be extinguished if the firemen stay at the fire station and do not arrive at the scene of the accident. Although our hopes are that fires will never start, there is no shortage of these crises in the world. We must honestly admit that the most fundamental role of the EU combat force has not been fully realised. The responsibility for this lies with the Member States. It is in the interest of all of us to have a deep-based debate at EU level on the development of activities. The Coalition Party's parliamentary group encourages Minister of Defence Kaikko and Minister of Foreign Affairs Haavisto to play an active role — could you raise the issue of the inaction of the EU Battle Group? Action at EU level is needed to do this. Mr President! In a few days now, a small virus can spread thousands of miles. Viruses and crises are becoming increasingly difficult to isolate. Their effects are reflected in all the parts of the world and in all the political activities that we have to get used to. The response to international crises must be both national and international. The Koronavirus will reduce the international training activities of the armed forces this year. The Finnish department was scheduled to take part in the European Challenge 2020 exercise in Germany in March, but it was cancelled because the training area would have been close to the epidemic area. Preparation must be made for the possibility that even a temporary shutdown of training activities may lead to a loss of military capability. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party proposes that international exercises be replaced on a temporary basis by national exercises. It should be borne in mind that the corona pandemic is not superseded by traditional threats. We need to take care of our defense. Mr President! As has been said, Finland is a small country in the northern regions, but we are also an EU country. We are at tables where we make decisions about our continent. With activeness, we can influence these decisions. We must not underestimate our own influence either. A strong, united and viable European Union is a prerequisite for Finland's success. Strengthening the EU's global role is important. The joint combat unit will contribute to this. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party supports participation in the stand-by shift as well as the establishment of a high level of preparedness.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u9	Mr President! The development of the European Union's common security and defence policy has been Finland's long-term objective in EU policy. There has been considerable progress in security and defence cooperation over the last few years. This closer cooperation will enable the Union to better protect its citizens and play an increasingly important role as a provider of global security and as an international partner for other actors, such as the UN. Following the Brexit referendum, a future work was launched in the EU, resulting in a decision to further deepen European external security and defence at the Bratislava Summit in September 2016. The European Council in December of the same year adopted an implementation plan in the field of security and defence. This included, among other things, permanent structural cooperation and strengthening the EU's rapid response instruments as concrete actions. In June 2017, the European Council concluded that the use of combat teams will be financed as a common cost under the Athena system managed by the EU. Financial issues have been one of the reasons why the troops have never been used. However, as stated in the report, no agreement has been reached on the reform of the financial system. The Central Parliamentary Group considers it important to improve the usability of the rapid reaction force by agreeing on a financial system and increasing flexibility in the pooling of departments as set out in the report. The EU must be genuinely prepared to use its rapid response capability. It is a question of the credibility of the system. Mr President! Finland is committed to the ambitious implementation of the EU's permanent structural cooperation, including the commitment to take part in the preparedness of the combat teams. Involvement in the preparedness of the EU Battlegroup is of key importance for the development of Finnish defence. Involvement in the contingency shift and their exercises will strengthen the development of the capabilities and interoperability of the Defence Forces. In the security policy environment, rapid response preparedness is emphasised. Finland’s participation in the battle groups’ preparedness will also support the development of rapid response capabilities. In order for the experience of participation to continue to be positive, the concept and the national approach must be continuously developed. The report's committee will have to carefully assess the importance of improving the availability of rapid reaction forces, their importance for EU security policy and crisis management, and the national benefits that Finland derives. The decision to use the troops in readiness for an EU operation is always national and would take place in Finland in accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act. Mr President! The decision of the EU Council on the use of the Battlegroup requires unanimity of all Member States. Even if decision-making at EU and national level is quick, it would be justifiably and carefully in consultation with Parliament. The central parliamentary group supports Finland's participation in the preparedness of the German-led combat unit and its deployment in high readiness.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u10	Mr President! Finland has consistently supported the development of the European Union's common foreign and security policy and crisis management capacity. The current Government Programme also commits itself to promoting a strong and united European Union with the capacity to tackle global challenges — a European Union that demonstrates leadership and creates stability and security in its environment. The European Union has a diverse toolbox of civilian and military crisis management elements at its disposal. Prepared combat teams capable of rapid action are an important complement to that toolbox. They have been developed as an instrument for crisis management outside the territory of the Union. The combat unit could be used for a limited duration and sized task, either as a separate crisis response team or as part of a larger operation. According to the concept, it would be suitable, for example, as a front-runner to secure a key item or to secure the delivery of humanitarian transport. Since 2007, the European Union has been standing by two battle groups at the same time. Each combat unit will have a six-month stand-by period and will be preceded by a thorough training and preparation period. During the stand-by shift, the combat unit can be concentrated in the target area within 10 days of the decision. However, these battle groups have never been used. The challenge has been the lack of a unified political will and the suitability of a combat unit on standby to conduct a current crisis management operation. However, the main reason is likely to be the draining defect associated with the financial burden sharing of the concept. The costs of a possible operation are largely borne by the countries participating in the Battlegroup, which is likely to have led to an increase in the threshold for launching the mission. From the point of view of the European Union's ability to act, it is essential that there is genuine readiness to use this rapid response capability. Finland has consistently sought to support the improvement of the usability of combat teams and the development of a co-financing model. This influence work should continue. Finland is now participating in the emergency unit for the seventh time. This time we will be participating in the German-led combat squad. Finland will set up 82 military armored intelligence teams, including a mini drone team, staff officers and a national maintenance section. The total strength of the department is about 4,100 soldiers, most of which are German, about 2,500. Based on past experience, Finland has developed its own preparation in such a way as to improve cost-effectiveness, among other things. Involvement in combat teams plays an important role in the development of Defence Forces performance. Participation in them develops Finland’s crisis management capabilities and deepens the Finnish troops’ ability to cooperate with other Union countries. This improves Finland’s readiness to provide and receive military assistance. It is particularly important to have the opportunity to participate in combat teams run by EU countries of military importance. Mr President! Surprisingly by the virus pandemic, the Western countries and also the Member States of the European Union, as a first reaction, focused on solving the problem on their own. However, it is quite clear that cooperation is a necessary part of the way out of the pandemic crisis. Inward curling is not a long-term sustainable way to act in any global crisis situation. It is in Finland's interest to promote European cooperation and the creation of common solutions. Moreover, the exceptional circumstances of the Korona pandemic have not reversed other global challenges, such as climate change and various conflicts that threaten stability and security. They still exist. In order to solve them, leadership and shared will will will are needed. It is important for us to spar Europe in the right direction. Continue to strengthen European solidarity and maintain common structures. Mr President! The Green Parliamentary Group sees the importance of promoting the European Union's crisis management capability and preparedness and of supporting Finland's participation in the preparedness exercise.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u11	Mr President! Finland has been taking part in the EU’s battle groups’ stand-bys for a long time. However, there has been little discussion about participation, although the need for combat teams and Finland's participation can be critically assessed. The main weakness in launching a possible operation in the Battlegroup is that the mandate of the UN Security Council is not required, even though the EU has declared its commitment to the principles of the UN Charter in its foreign and security policy. This undermines the authority and conditions of the UN in a situation where, on the contrary, efforts should be made to strengthen the role of the UN. The Finnish line must be clear: we do not support participation in EU Battlegroup operations that do not have UN mandate or OSCE support, whether we are on the stand-by or not. The decision of the EU Council on the use of the Battlegroup requires unanimity of all Member States and, in particular, of the countries participating in the Battle Group. If the Member States do not have a common will, a picture of the situation or a vision of the financial burden sharing, the military department will not be used in the future, as has never been used since 2004. If, on the other hand, we want to abandon the unanimity requirement, it is unacceptable for many countries, including Finland. In the future, the decision to participate must be made at national level. Originally, the need for combat teams was justified by the prevention of genocide and later also by the war against terrorism and the support of the security sector. However, no crisis, no disaster, or no threat have been eliminated in the battle groups. The battle groups have been mainly about extended and more long-term refresher exercises and international military exercises, which are justified in Finland by the development of national defences, as is the case with all other international cooperation. Mr President! Finland's participation in the Battlegroup must therefore be assessed as part of a broad and multi-purpose framework for international cooperation. According to the report, "it is also a question of developing the EU's common security and defence policy" and "participation in combat department activities is part of Finland's consistent contribution to the development and implementation of the EU's common security and defence policy and a concrete contribution to strengthening the EU's defence dimension". Perhaps the most noteworthy point in the report is the reference to the ambitious implementation of permanent structural cooperation in the EU. Is this the glue that is supposed to keep the European Union ever more fragile when there are many other challenges, as we have heard here? Mr President! The Finnish department was to participate in the European Challenge 2020 exercise. It was replaced by a national exercise which was assessed on the basis of NATO NEL1 criteria, where the key requirement for compliance is to ensure sufficient compatibility with NATO forces. Finland develops military mobility within the EU and in cooperation with NATO, deepens international military activity, supports the EU Defence Fund and the Peace Fund, has concluded a series of bilateral and trilateral agreements on defence policy, and has signed the NATO host agreement. Finland's participation in the EU's Battlegroup activities should be assessed against this background in particular. National defence capabilities could be developed in a number of more cost-effective ways rather than participating in a combat unit. Political commitments and a broader framework of reference may be the reason why we want to commit ourselves so strongly, even though the evidence is rather non-existent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u12	Irade the Talman! Det ligger ingen större dramatik i att Finland åter tänker vara en del av den EU-stridsgrupp som nu ska vara i beredskap under andra cheap avår 2020. Det är Tyskland som nu leder denna europeiska snabbinsatstyrka, och Finland har variety med sex gånger tidigare, första gången år 2007. Det är en del av våra internationalella åligganden. Svenska riksdagsgruppen anser att Finland ska vaa en activ, solidarisk aktör för att de internationella samfundet ska kunna reagera snabbt på eskalerande kriser eller catastrophe. Det är en viktig del av vår utrikes- och säkerhetspolitik. Här förväntas trovärdighet och ett consecvent agerande från Finlands siida. Vårt land har startka traditioner av fredsbevararuppdrag. EU's stridsgrupper bygger på ett give concept, men till EU-stridsgruppernas uppdrag hör också att vid behov kunnastallas till FN:s förfogande om FN begär det. Till exempel för att skydda humanitära operatinger.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u13	Mr President! The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group welcomes the cooperation in crisis management within the framework of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u14	Mr President! Thank you for the contributions that have been made. I will take just a few comments at this point: Many of you, as Mr Östman did last time, drew attention to the development of civilian crisis management. I fully agree with the speakers. This was also the opinion of the representative of the Judge-in-Office very strongly. Perhaps in this COVID-19 crisis these questions will be raised even further. After all, Finland has been part of the group of countries, which has even raised Article 222, that, in such a situation, could the EU not also cooperate more with each other. However, it has not received any support. Mr Kopra pointed out that Finland should be more active in using this mechanism, and more active in EU defence policy cooperation in general, and that is the message we have taken. It has been the position of Finland and the support for permanent structured cooperation has also been strong. But it is very important that that message also comes from here today. I fully agree with those speakers who said that there will be such cooperation here — this came very strongly from Mr Sipilä’s speech — which is needed in Europe today. This is one of the forms, and although the battle groups have not been used, this training and planning and working together create the capacity that is needed at the moment. Then, at the very last point, these questions arose about the context in which this could be used and whether, for example, it could be used to support or open up a UN operation in a situation. I very much agree with these points. Today, if you continue to take the link between the COVID-19 crisis and crisis management, the UN Secretary-General's appeal for a cease-fire throughout the world during this COVID-19 crisis has not met with a positive, positive response in many parts of the world, but it seems that in the Yemen crisis, Saudi Arabia has entered into such a ceasefire, which is also capable of being influenced by these political appeals and political cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u15	And Minister Kaikkonen, including two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u16	Mr President! There are a number of different situations in which these forces could be used, for example in a crisis area where protection or logistical support is needed for vulnerable people after a natural or equivalent disaster, or perhaps to strengthen an existing EU crisis management operation if the situation requires confirmation — albeit for a limited period — or an independent crisis management or assistance mission or an evacuation mission, for example. You can imagine these crises like this. There is no hope for crises in themselves, but there have been and will probably continue to be crises, and we will see if there will be a situation in which these troops will then be able to use them, and then they will be of practical use. It must be said, however, that they are not intended for intra-EU use, but for a crisis outside the EU. Then from these exercises: After all, there were 70 international exercises in the plan for this year, but in practice that number is now falling quite substantially because of this corona virus. Several have already been cancelled and more cancelled. Likewise, exercises in Finland have had to be cancelled and then modified in such a way that they can be carried out under these corona conditions. For the summer, decisions have already been taken and the autumn will be evaluated in this respect. Practice what is possible under these circumstances and it is likely that the corona virus will also affect next year’s training.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u17	Mr President! The Government's report to Parliament shows that Finland is preparing to participate in the preparedness of the German-led EU Battlegroup for a period of six months from 1 July. The Government's report also shows that the German-led combat unit has a total of 4100 soldiers, of which the total preparedness of the Finnish troops is about 80. Thus, for the seventh time, Finland will take part in the European Union's battle group's stand-by. The EU Battlegroups have been operational since 2007. They are designed to strengthen the EU's common security and defence policy and its range of instruments for crisis management. Mr President! As the report shows, the outbreak of the COVID-19 epidemic has reduced the conditions for international crisis management. At the same time, it has contributed to the training and preparation of the German-led combat unit. The Committee on Foreign Affairs expects, in its expert consultation, an assessment of the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the preparation of the German-led combat unit and the implementation of the stand-by. My goal is that Finnish soldiers are not unnecessarily exposed to coronavirus infections and that all operations of the combat unit should follow the hygiene, quarantine and precautionary principles, taking due account of appropriate protective equipment. Mr President! As can be seen from the report, the EU Battlegroups have never been used in a crisis management operation, i.e. the Union Battlegroup Concept has failed to fulfil its main purpose of reacting quickly in a crisis management situation. In practice, participation has therefore only meant training and networking for Finland. The participation has supported the development of the Defence Forces’ capabilities and interoperability. In addition, participation has contributed to the development of bilateral and multilateral defence cooperation between partner countries. In recent years, security threats such as terrorist attacks and the refugee crisis have increased in Europe. The situation of immigrants threatened to be escalated at the Greek border early in the year. Would there have been any use for this combat unit? As the Minister mentioned, these combat forces could only be used in crises outside the EU. Would this have been appropriate in order to prevent the escalated crisis in Greece? The Government’s objective is that the partnership would help Finland if we were ever in need of help. The cost of operations and the issue of financial burden sharing have long been one of the key threshold issues. The issue of sharing the costs of a possible operation to be launched during the Battle Group's stand-by session will certainly be one of the key issues to be examined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs in its expert consultations on this issue. Mr President! Finally, so far the importance of combat teams has been limited. In just over ten years, no agreement has been reached on what the battle groups would be used for in practice and how the costs would be shared. In practice, their influence is very limited. In the future, we will have to consider how much Finland is willing to pay for its participation in European Union activities in a changing world situation whose benefits, both for Finland and for resolving crises, have been questionable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u18	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! So this is about the EU Battlegroup's stand-by, 80 soldiers, from July to the end of the year. The Assembly in its group statement, which Mr Kopra spoke about a moment ago, stated that we have given strong support to these people since the beginning of this system and also pointed out along the way that these battle groups should also be able to be used more smoothly in different situations. Some examples have also emerged in this debate. These will strengthen our international expertise, cooperation, but also national defence capabilities, which is one of the key tasks involved in these operations and missions. So the system could definitely be better used. We have also done a great deal of work to strengthen insurance cover and cover for those involved in various international tasks, and I personally believe that this has been particularly well managed in this emergency response, and today also in these other crisis management operations better than in previous years. I would also like to express my thanks for the fact that Minister of Defence, Mr Kaikkonen, said that, now that international training activities are significantly reduced, this exercise and training can also be maintained at national level, as pointed out in his group statement. But from Minister Kaikkonen I would have liked to ask about these Finns in various international positions. If I remember correctly, a large part of Iraq was discharged, but we have in Italy, for example, Navy soldiers in the operation, and in March a decision has been taken to suspend the personal leave of service there. If I have understood correctly, these women and men are now, so to speak, almost on shift in these tasks. The entry of part of the countries is restricted and, on the other hand, it is impossible to travel here and here again. Perhaps it would be interesting in this debate to hear briefly from Secretary of Defence Kaikkonen how this COVID-19, the corona, has been reflected in these international exercises. For example, have we had any infections with these Finnish soldiers on duty, and in what way could their leave of service be brought about? It is, of course, an unreasonable situation if this blockade is going to be very long.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u19	Mr President! First of all, I am in favour of Finland's active role and participation in EU-level cooperation and, in this case, military crisis management. It is therefore desirable and desirable to take part in the standby exercise. The period of preparedness is six months, and there are still a number of reasons why real action has not been achieved. Of course, it may be a good thing in itself, but this is where criticism comes from. It must also be said that participation in the operation requires unanimity among all the Member States, but then, on the one hand, at national level, each Member State can decide for itself whether to go along with it or not, i.e. national decision-making will remain in our own hands and, on no account, we will not have to go into an operation which is questionable to us. Such a rapid reaction force to this extent too — which is not so big now, though the size of the brigade is being discussed — requires a rapid response, which is necessary in some situations. Experience has shown this in recent years. In a few days, if there is sufficient political will, the troops will be mobilised. The advantage for Finland is, of course, this cooperation at EU level, national training for our defence capabilities and active activities of officers and reservists and increased competence. The problem has been experienced — and rightly so — that this readiness has been taken into account in the budget as a cost, but then, if there is real action, they will come to this and it has not in any way been earmarked in advance. I myself wonder whether there can also be a small threshold for political decision-making when a country belonging to a combat unit decides whether to go into an operation or not, so that when it decides to leave it, it will also decide to accept considerable additional costs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u20	Mr President! This participation in the EU Battlegroups or participation in this contingency shift seems reasonable and appropriate, and in this respect the story that Finland has been doing for a long time while participating in these preparedness forces is being repeated. Having listened to these speeches here today in some speeches, it was said — and I think it was mainly from the Finnish people’s side — that these contributions to the battle groups have not been of any use to Finland, and other contributions needed more than that to be included in the battles. I'd like to put it another way. However, the basic content of participating in these battle groups is not that Finland will be able to enter the battlefields. The basic content is that we are creating a common security and defence dimension for the European Union, a common system in which we have these different wings, different forms of action. That is the basic content here. It is also true that there have been crises in which it might have been appropriate to use these EU response units. The Minister of Defence also pointed out here, among other things, that this might be the case in some evacuation missions or natural disaster situations, and I think it was Mrs Holopainen who also mentioned the delivery of humanitarian aid, and so on. Yes, there are these examples here, without any more enthusiasm for war than we want to make a serious contribution to conflict resolution in the crisis management sector. It must be borne in mind that, in principle, these military units are specifically involved in crisis management tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u23	Mr President! The European Union's fighting forces are part of the EU's toolbox for foreign and security policy, which will enable the Union to react rapidly and rapidly to changing world policies. International crises are becoming increasingly complex. Crisis management requires both military and civilian cooperation. Battle groups were established in 2005 and Finland has been involved in voluntary military cooperation almost from the start. The battle groups of the European Union have not been used once in their history. This fact reflects the difficulty of taking decisions at EU level on foreign and security policy. They are influenced by both economic and political differences of opinion between Member States. This is a tragic situation. However, Finland has been actively emphasising the importance of the EU's defence and security policy for several years and the importance of combat teams for this ability to function. Although the core of the Union is precisely in cooperation and cohesion in the area of trade and peace, as Mr Kiljunen has just described well, it is good for the Union to be ready to use military forces to prevent and calm crisis situations. Finland's commitment is also reflected by the fact that we have consistently advocated the use of the combat unit and participated in the preparedness exercises six times earlier. Conflict prevention and peace mediation and building are Finland's stronger priorities for foreign policy. Finland has consistently supported the development of the European Union's common foreign and security policy and crisis management capacity. The current Government Programme also commits itself to promoting a strong and united European Union with the capacity to tackle global challenges. The Government has also started working on a comprehensive over-election crisis management agenda under the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The aim is to improve the effectiveness of operations and the planned use of resources. It is good to evaluate the long-term results of previous operations and also to consider how best to respond to new and prolonged crises. We need close cooperation between crisis management, peace work, humanitarian aid and development cooperation. Participation in the EU’s battle groups also supports Finland’s national defence. Finnish soldiers can practice multinational collaboration with other states, and the performance of military equipment can be tested in major exercises. For this spring, the corona epidemic has changed the plans, and the international exercise in Germany was cancelled, but it was replaced by a replacement exercise and evaluation organised in Finland. The involvement of the Battlegroup will therefore contribute to the deepening of bilateral and multilateral defence cooperation with key partner countries. International cooperation and finding reliable defence partners is important for a small country on the external borders of the European Union. Participation in international crisis management is a responsibility for maintaining international peace and security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u24	Mr President! Today we are discussing the Government's report on Finland's participation in the EU Battlegroup. Finland has been involved in the EU Battlegroup since 2007, and the experience from the previous six times is good. We have gained valuable experience in military international cooperation as well as learned, but also shared our own expertise in crisis management. All of this has strengthened Finland’s own security and stability. That is why the Coalition Party supports Finland's participation for the seventh time. It is good that the EU's weight is also maintained and strengthened in crisis management matters. Mr President! However, it is true, as Mr Koprak said in his speech, that we need a new approach and, above all, an active approach to the use of combat teams. The mere continuous training of preparedness, as valuable as it is, is not enough to maintain the credibility of this activity over a longer period of time. Evidence is also needed on the work of combat teams to solve concrete crises. That is why Mr Kopra's encouragement to ministers, Mr Kaikonen and Mr Haavisto, is in order to speed up the debate on this issue. The most important question to answer is, of course, the criteria for the future use of the Battlegroup. It must be difficult to think about this, but it is necessary. Common expertise in crisis management must be made to benefit each and every one of us. I believe there is also an order for such thinking in the midst of the current pandemic. The Corona virus has shown that the need for safety-enhancing actions has increased both nationally and internationally. Finally, Mr President, I would also like to reiterate the concern expressed in some speeches about the immediate safety effects of the corona virus. The effects of the radical contraction of international exercises on military preparedness must be taken into account. It is therefore appropriate to replace the international exercises that are currently missing, as far as possible, on a temporary basis by national exercises. This will ensure the credibility of our most important, that is, our defence capability, even in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u25	Mr President! That is where Mrs Wallinheimo spoke so well that I will not repeat what she said, but I would like to say to Mrs Kiljunen, in relation to this theme, that the old millennial wisdom is that if we want peace, we must be prepared for war. After all, the European Union is one of the most important peacekeepers in Europe as an institution, and it is important that the EU has also increased its own military dimension so that it can continue to be more peacekeepers throughout the world in the future, because Europe represents the values — democracy, an equal society, trust in the law — on which peace and balanced international cooperation can be built. In this respect, I am sure that there has not been any intervention here in the great Chamber of Parliament, where I think there is a good consensus on Finland's participation in this department, that it would be necessary to be a saber to rattle. But the EU must have the ability to use these forces if necessary, so that the EU has the international credibility and these troops have the international credibility for which these departments are assembled. The fact that we are prepared and, if necessary, ready to use our capabilities is that we best maintain peace and prevent conflicts from arising. Mr President! Minister of Defence Kaikkonen has been here to discuss this issue and, if I may, I would like to ask him a question about how many Finnish soldiers take part in these international missions and there they will see how the corresponding rules of the Defence Forces of different countries may be a little more modern than our general service regulations deal with such practices as the military beard, for example. Of course, when I meet a lot of soldiers in my day-to-day life as chairman of the town council of the garrison, this also comes up in many speeches in Finland to wish such a welcome — perhaps in these international missions, but in Finland in general — and a little modernisation of it. On the other hand, they also feel that this is a professionally important response to the hybrid threats we face in this time period, namely that the soldier cannot be so easily separated from the others. When, at least during this corona period, it seems that men have a lot of fashion on their beards, then the soldier is very easily distinguished from the crowd when there is a more smooth cheek. So this is just such a question of the General Rules of Service,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u26	Mr President! That beard doesn't grow bad, as we know. Just a few questions for the ministers. Of course, this is a hypothetical issue, on the other hand, when this has not been used, but I would still ask the ministers: could it be possible, for example, that Finland would at some point offer the leadership role of a combat unit? The second question concerning this report is that we have now been appointed this parliamentary crisis management committee, which is considering long-term priorities for Finland, and here a few times reference is made to the importance of this crisis management, cooperation at EU level, also for Finland, but perhaps not to highlight the wider link to the development of crisis management: I would like to ask a few questions about how ministers feel and see this as part of the whole of where Finland is and its future linked to this EU aspect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u27	Mr President! Europe has been smoking in recent years. The normal, foreign, sick terrorism in third countries has arrived in Europe because of a reckless immigration policy. The European Union's combat unit has been useless. It has been so useless that it has not even been considered necessary to use it. Today, in the midst of the crisis, it is finally clear to everyone that the EU is incapable of crisis management. That is why, in a bad place, nation states rely on their own expertise, and that is good, that is very good. I believe that the European Union is a black hole, greased with the taxpayers' money of nation states, which, like the most serious pandemic, absorbs the sovereignty of nation states towards a final federal state. Cooperation between independent, strong nation states is very much to be welcomed, but I do not think that the military alliance of the European Union, or the black Federation in general, is to be welcomed in the light of the facts that have emerged in recent years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u28	And now, Minister Haavisto, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u29	Mr President! Thank you for a good conversation. I will leave these most difficult questions, such as beard growth, to Minister Kaikkonen. [Laughter] I think it was very good in this debate that a great many speakers saw, however, that such military crisis management and combat department work is part of our broader EU concept, but it is only one part, and there is a huge need for more than that. There is a need for EU foreign policy, security policy, defence cooperation. Here, more speakers also drew attention to how to bring together this military crisis management, civilian crisis management, humanitarian aid, development cooperation, in what way the EU would become more effective. I have been thinking a lot about this in recent times, for example, when I look at the situation in the Sahel, where it is often only looking for a military solution, or some are looking only for a humanitarian solution, when there is a clear need for all of these here. I am not going to make this the first target for these troops, but I would see that it would be very important to be able to talk about what is needed in the EU in order to increase the balance and stability of a region. In fact, for Mr Ovaska first of all, I think that in this parliamentary crisis management strategy and in this work we should think about this whole matter even more deeply than we have thought so far. And this is also a representative for Peltokanka. In a sense, you spoke of the stronger role of the nation states, but I was speaking here with the Mauritanian minister some day — there are a lot of these telephone meetings now. They are in the Sahel region, and Western Sahara is in it as their neighbour, and he described the situation there and hoped that the EU countries would join forces, firstly because there are not many different EU policies — not Spanish policies and French policies and Nordic policies — but that there was one policy line, and then we would act together and use it as an EU resource, for example, in that region, in the Sahel region, together. It would certainly make sense that this would be the case, because it may easily be felt in the region that the EU is a different group, drawn in different directions and so on. There's a lot of development here. This may be in response to the points you raised that only the nation states might act. That is not enough in all these areas. Then, perhaps, when it comes to the impact of COVID-19, the corona itself, on crisis management operations and their safety and on the health of the soldiers: unfortunately, there is also the strength to try to use this corona pandemic for their negative purposes, to see that the international community is withdrawing, that peacekeeping operations are withdrawing, and then they want to abuse that situation and perhaps strengthen their own positions. There are terrorist groups who may be using this situation like this. That is why we must be on our guard, as it were, not just looking at what is a health situation or anything else, but constantly looking at this security situation in areas where we are guaranteeing security through peacekeeping operations or civilian crisis management. Clearly, this COVID situation is also being misused, but fortunately, somewhere, it has brought positive results, as is now the case in Yemen, where at least part of the ceasefire has been achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u30	Secretary Kaikkonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u31	Mr President! First, this leadership role, which was raised by Mr Ovaska: There has been no more serious talk of this in Finland in recent years. About ten years ago, there was some discussion about it. In practice, it would require quite a lot of paid staff to be involved there, and in Finland, however, this is very much voluntary. At least with these resources, what we have at the moment, this issue is not topical. There are no plans of this kind for the leadership role to be sought out. Of course, Mr Niikko, the necessary corona provision will be taken into account in these solutions, hygiene and others. You also asked about these possible crises. Of course, the rule of the game is that a unanimous decision is needed outside the EU. Could there be a situation like this in the Middle East or around the EU? Well, I'm sure there may be a theory, but is there really one for which the rules of the combat force fit and where there is a unanimous decision? So far it has proved difficult, but of course the situation can change. Congressman Heinonen asked how the corona has been seen in the Kv. Well, of course I've seen it. Many operations have introduced new regulations, and Finland’s troops have then adapted to these regulations. The most significant discharge is indeed this Iraq, which you mentioned. Most of it was taken home, quarantined for 14 days, and this has already happened, and they are now free of it in themselves. If there are cases of corona, then we will try to repatriate, and the crown will take care of its own. Then there was this representative car’s significant shaving question. Yes, a parliamentary committee has now been set up to develop the compulsory military service, which is able to give some broad thought to the issue of military service and why not also to this particular issue of beards. But it must be said that when the Defence Forces have a wide range of practices that can of course be called into question, they are, in general or in fact, always based on the fact that they were thought in some way that why I did. For example, it has been considered that this beard is related to the safety of service, as is long hair. If you think of the gas mask, or the use of a ‘nasse’, sore-tight,if there is a beard or long hair. But, Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that the beard and long hair are very fitting for others that it is all right.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u32	Thank you, Minister Kaikkonen. Let us wait for the report of the bearded mental committee on this matter. Now the hour and a half devoted to this debate is beginning to be spent, but I will give you one minute's debate to those Members who spoke in the group, if they so wish.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u33	Mr. Speaker! I think it would be a good thing if such discussions were not mere hymnisation and repetition of the report, and in this respect the speeches made by the Finns of Peru deserve praise, but only in this respect. But I actually have a question for Mr Mustajärvi about what he said in his speech about this mandate of the UN Security Council that it should always be. Now I ask him whether he trusts the Finnish veto or the Russian, Chinese or US veto. The EU Battlegroup can only be used by a unanimous decision of the EU, which means that Finland has the right to veto. And we have had situations, for example, 20 years ago in Macedonia, where the UN mission had to be suspended because one member of the Security Council no longer accepted its extension. It had nothing to do with Macedonia, it had nothing to do with anything else, but it brought more.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u34	Mr President! First, we need to fix Mr. Kiljunen's desire to build some kind of army. That is absolutely not true. In fact, our group speech includes references to social peace, Finnish crisis management under the auspices of the UN and so on. On the contrary, we want to direct it towards crisis management within a reasonable framework. As the report well illustrates, the threshold for the use of the combat unit has risen so high that there is talk of political will and costs. The Committee on Defence has, among other things, drawn attention to the same points in its opinion in 2016, following the last decision on these issues. At the time, the committee considered it important that, before the decision on Finland's participation in the stand-by shift, decisions were taken at EU level to change the concept of Battlegroups in such a way as to ensure the usability of the departments.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u35	Mr President! The fire department will be of no use if, in the event of a fire, the fire extinguishers stay at the fire station and wonder what conditions to leave and whether to leave at all. In this respect, it was gratifying to hear Mr Haavisto and Mr Kaikkonen speak about taking these definitions seriously from the starting point. I therefore hope that you will be determined to continue the work so that this issue can be clarified so that the starting point is as low and clear as possible, that no time will be spent debatating at the time of the crisis and thus benefit from these combat forces, which is what this whole concept is seeking. I hope that you will take this message to the Chambers in Brussels and resolve this issue along with others.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u36	Mr President! As has been the case here many times, the concept was created already in 2004 and the departments have been ready since 2007, for 13 years, and these have not been used, although there was a need. This economic aspect has come up many times here. This was already decided at the European Council in June 2017, and I do not remember any noise from that meeting. The conclusions state that ‘in order to strengthen the EU’s fast-acting instruments, the European Council agrees that the use of I would have asked the ministers: What's the big deal now that this has been decided? Who's holding this thing up? After all, Finland has been pushing this forward all along. It has been decided once again that it will be financed from the common costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u37	Mr President! I do not know whether the representative of the Judge-in-Office was a rhetorical throw or whether it had any greater political significance when he asked me if I had more confidence in the Finnish or Russian veto. However, I am now in the Finnish Parliament and not in the Duma, and I am in the process of formulating the position of the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group — and Finland's position, if I can at all. And I do not always trust the Finnish decision-makers — I say it quite frankly. I remember very well who was the foreign minister when the NATO host agreement was adopted. It was not even brought to this Chamber for discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u40	Mr President! This has been a good debate and certainly good lunches have been given to ministers, in particular to reduce the threshold for this usability. There will certainly be an order and a need for these troops, and in future efforts will be made to develop their activities in that direction. There has also been a really good debate on this whole crisis management package, and I think it is worth going further and thinking about what kind of toolbox we could use later. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u41	Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have already passed the time agreed upon, but there has now been a clear reference to two representatives. I will give them one last speech — do not mention the name of any representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u42	Mr President! I do not mention the name, but I refer to earlier speeches when it was said here — an old saying, not so much popular wisdom — that if you want peace, you should be prepared for war. I think that popular wisdom would say that if you want peace, you should also be prepared for peace. In fact, the world tells us that once you are prepared for war, wars have also been fought. The second point relates to the other representative who spoke here specifically relates to this mandate of the UN. I remember well when, in the constitutional process in the Union, at the beginning of the 21st century, it was agreed that this security and defence dimension would be developed, a readiness force developed, and this UN mandate was not taken into account. The starting point was that if there is a serious participation situation, a crisis situation, then yes, this requires a unanimous decision, and it is self-evident that there will be a careful look at the mandate given by the UN Security Council for such operations, and it must be like this very exceptional situation, as this Macedonian crisis, which would then go as if over it. So it's not here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u43	And a representative of the Judgments. After that, move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u44	Mr. Speaker! With regard to the use of combat teams and any military crisis management, we have very clear legislation, and no Finn, as a soldier, is going into any operation without the express approval of this house. There's nothing there. It is then a different matter, Mr Mustajärvi, if there are majorities and minorities here, but in any case the decision-making power is and remains in Finland. And what has been discussed is a non-legally binding document of this kind: they can look themselves in the mirror then by the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which, on the basis of the full information received from the Government, did not see the need to request a debate in plenary because the Government did not have such an opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u46	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u47	We will now resume the debate on item 2 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u48	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Mikkonen, I am sorry that you have had to wait a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u49	Mr President! This bill has been brought here so that we can implement a programme to improve water management and water protection, which has already been launched in the last period and is now being continued. One measure of this water protection programme is the project for the application of gypsum to the Archipelago Sea catchment area. It aims to distribute gypsum to the fields in the Archipelago Sea catchment area for about 50,000 to 85,000 hectares, thereby enabling us to reduce phosphorus emissions. But our current legislation does not allow aid to be given in the form of goods or services, and that is why this law must be amended so that these farmers can be given this gypsum in this project. So that is what this change is all about. A new aid scheme would be included in this law, which would also allow aid to be given in the form of goods and services. The aid would be discretionary, the appropriations to be used would depend on the government's estimates of revenue and expenditure. The Ely Centre would act as a support authority and the Ely Centre could thus organise the procurement of goods and services in a centralised manner. Support could be granted to natural persons, undertakings and other entities as well as to general government if the conditions are met. This proposal contains provisions on compliance with, inter alia, the rules applicable to EU State aid, aid, organisation of aid, application for aid, conditions for granting aid and decision and agreement. In addition, the proposal includes provisions on suspension, recovery and legal remedies. The law would also define that each aid scheme would be the subject of a government regulation by form which would lay down the conditions and other necessary elements for each individual aid. The reason why this proposal has now been brought here is indeed because it relates to the amending budget to be adopted in June and is intended to be dealt with in connection with it and makes it possible for this project for the application of plaster under the water protection programme to be launched. At the same time as this draft law was in the form of opinions, the opinions and preparations have also had this government regulation, which, according to the law, must therefore be adopted separately from each aid, and this regulation, which provides for the treatment of gypsum on agricultural land, has therefore already been the subject of statements. In this case, the support would be cast. It would include the delivery, storage and distribution of plaster on agricultural land. The grounding of the plaster and the soiling would be carried out by the recipient of the aid. This draft regulation has therefore been the subject of an opinion at the same time. It is now in the process of further preparation and is to be forwarded to the Committee on the Environment. The preparatory work is currently under way in Ely Centres in Southwest Finland, and the application for aid has already been opened up to farmers, and it will be open until 21 June, because our objective is to allow these gypsum treatments to be carried out in late summer 2020, and this summer, but the condition for this is, of course, that this legislation will be adopted and that the budget for the processing of the amending budget will be approved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u50	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u51	Mr President! And the Minister too! It is a good thing that, despite the corona crisis, some of the rest of the decision-making process is progressing. The need for protection of nature really does not wait. The summers of recent history have shown that the Baltic Sea is severely polluted and eutrophic. Unfortunately, the situation has not improved. The nutrient load continues to exceed the targets set by HELCOM at the 2013 Ministerial Meeting. The Finnish Environment Agency's assessment of the situation in the Baltic Sea last summer, July, shows that the Baltic Sea has warmed up by almost two degrees on average since 90, even more of Finland's sea areas. The marked decline in nutrient loads has continued in this millennium, but the surface area of the oxygen-free areas is at a record level. One of the causes of eutrophication and deterioration in the condition of the Baltic Sea is the increasing amount of phosphorus. Phosphorus will end up in the Baltic Sea from agricultural fields, above all with run-off water. Although crops need phosphorus, their impact on water bodies and, in particular, on the already heavily loaded Baltic Sea is harmful. Eutrophication can be seen as one of the biggest and most visible environmental challenges in the Baltic Sea. As nutrients increase, the amount of algae increases. When the algae die, they sink to the bottom, where the process of decomposition consumes oxygen from the water. Under oxidative conditions, phosphorus that is once bound to it can be released from the soil in the bottom. This so-called internal load continues to increase eutrophication, and the self-feeding cycle is complete. The growing number of phosphorus also feeds blue algae, which we have unfortunately witnessed too often in recent years. At the same time, eutrophication also affects animal species in the Baltic Sea and threatens the diversity of water bodies. The increase in oxygen-free farms has also been affected by global warming in general. In the big picture, food production as a single factor plays an important role in the load caused by the average Finn in terms of eutrophication in the Baltic Sea. Syke’s specialist Seppo Knuuttila has found that the easiest way for the consumer to reduce total emissions is to increase the share of vegetables and domestic natural fish in the diet. This would reduce the need for arable land, as around 70 per cent of Finnish arable land is currently in the production of animal-based food. An effective way to prevent phosphorus from entering water bodies is to apply plaster to fields. This is why the government's proposal is important and urgent so that casts can be spread by this year's side. The State Aid Act prohibited the distribution of gypsum instead of money, but the proposed legislative amendment allows the distribution of live gypsum directly to the farmer instead of the subsidy money. The plaster is especially applied to the fields of the Archipelago Sea catchment area. The proposal is part of the implementation of the water protection improvement programme. It is very welcome and desirable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u52	Mr President! I, too, believe that in the midst of the corona crisis it is good that we are able to move forward in this Parliament with other important things, that is, even though society has now stood still, not everything can be put aside. Water protection is one of these important issues with which we should not wait. The state of the Baltic Sea is a cause for concern. It is one of the most polluted seas in the world, as we know. The problems are particularly highlighted in coastal waters, which are enriched by nutrients from agriculture and forestry, and the already difficult situation is indeed complicated by this past snowless and rainy winter, which, according to researchers, has brought with it a large load of nutrients from melted fields. Similarly, the progress of climate change will further complicate the protection of the Baltic Sea. The aim of this government is to achieve a good ecological status of the waters — our common objective. Finland, together with the other Baltic Sea countries, is committed to significantly improving the state of the Baltic Sea, and this is where the target year will be this year, i.e. by next year. Indeed, in the negotiations on this environmental table, we agreed at that time that the Baltic Sea and water protection programme would be extended to the same extent as it was then, and we know that there is enough to do, because we are still lagging behind the Baltic Sea Action Plan objectives for the protection of the Baltic Sea. This proposal is an important part of the implementation of the Government's Baltic Sea and Water Protection Programme. Indeed, studies have shown that gypsum treatment in fields is an effective means of protecting water on a large scale. The gypsum binds phosphorus to the surface of particles, so it does not leave the fields into ditches and eventually ends up in the Baltic Sea. According to studies, plaster applied to the field reduces phosphorus discharges by up to half, i.e. this is really effective and in that respect also cheap water protection. Mr President! It is therefore great that we agreed in the government negotiations to extend the gypsum treatment of the fields, and this proposal now allows support for the protection of water by individuals, companies, communities. I think that it is up to the state, both through regulation and through support measures, to make it possible for our seas to be better, and now this proposal actually makes it possible to do so. This is really great, and thank you to the Minister for bringing this proposal and presenting it well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u53	Mr President! Summer will soon be here and the debate on the purity of bathing waters will begin. This summer, recreation in natural waters will have even greater value and importance when we have to keep physical distance because of the corona. Eutrophication of water systems is one of our visible environmental problems, and every summer the Baltic Sea is in a blue algae state and in some places it is unsympathetic. Agriculture accounts for about 60% of water-refining phosphorus. How we manage to reduce agricultural emissions is therefore essential to the cleanliness of our waters. Mr President! The Baltic Sea Protection Commission has listed the fields of south-west Finland as significant sources of nutrient pollution. The Ministry of the Environment is in the process of implementing a programme to improve water protection, which includes a large-scale gypsum application project in the fields of the Archipelago Sea catchment areas. This amendment of the law is needed, as has already been said here, so that the Ely Centre of Varsinais-Suomi can start to acquire and distribute plaster to farmers. The distribution of goods and services instead of subsidies therefore requires this amendment of the law. As Mr Kivelä has said here, the extension of gypsum treatment in fields is also included in the Government Programme, which is also intended to promote water protection through the Government Programme. This amendment of the law is a simple way of making significant investments in the protection of watercourses, and, as the Minister said, this law is now due to enter into force soon so that this gypsum treatment aid can begin to be distributed at the end of the summer. Mr President! The gypsum treatment of fields has produced good results in several pilot projects. Gypsum treatment is a simple, cost-effective way to reduce the nutrient load of water bodies, safe for the crops and animals of fields and waters and well suited for large-scale use. Finnish plaster has been used in pilot projects from Siilinjärvi. According to a survey carried out for farmers, farmers also feel that this is a good practice and that it is possible to do so in addition to their own farming activities. Already one gypsum treatment begins to limit phosphorus leaching into water immediately, and the effect will take about five years with current research data. It takes four tons of gypsum to process a hector. The cost of distribution has been approximately EUR 220 per hectare. The gypsum treatment can reduce the phosphorus load from the fields to the Baltic Sea by up to 300 tonnes. According to measurements made in Liedo in the water catchment area of the sapoja, during the first less than two years, both solids and phosphorus had been reduced by about half from treated fields to the river. Mr President! We must resolutely continue to renovate water bodies and prevent nutrients and other harmful substances from entering our waters. The smart way to organise the gypsum treatment in a centralized way is to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u54	Mr President! This government proposal is mainly a technical amendment, a technical bill to support the binding of phosphorus and nitrogen so that they do not drain into water bodies. The gypsum material is precisely one that binds nutrients to itself and thus significantly facilitates the rinsing of nutrients in water bodies. However, it should be borne in mind in these discussions on agriculture in general that agriculture is always easily made responsible for the pollution of all Finnish waters. It is not true that we have now seen these winters, as this winter was, which we have just lived in, that there may be ten good winters in the same winter: there were a few frosts eating, snowing, after three days the snow had melted away, and nutrients were constantly washed into the water from forest lands around Finland. And another thing: from the city of Helsinki, the capital region, for example, comes this sludge from wastewater treatment plants, and when it is used as a raw material for lawns in urban areas when new green areas are made, huge nitrogen and phosphorus residues are flowing directly into the Gulf of Finland, which thus feed the Baltic Sea. In these matters, consider what the real reason is. Of course, agriculture has a role to play, and no one will deny it, but it is always worth remembering that we have this climate changed and winters have disappeared, or in the same winter there can be ten springs, ten autumns and ten winters, as it constantly rains water, sometimes snows and again melts. Here's the basic reason. It is excellent that this bill was quickly launched and that this measure can now be used on 1.7. I would like to ask two questions in this regard, Minister. The first is that, when this new experiment begins, does the Ministry of the Environment cooperate with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to obtain test results on this, which is the real impact of nutrient draining in the areas where this plaster is used. The second question concerns the scale of the eutrophication of the Gulf of Finland — I have been thinking about it in my humble political career. In the Gulf of Finland there is a huge increase in blue algae and other problems caused by over-nutrients, but what is the background in Ostrobothnia, which is the most important region for Finnish agriculture — Southern Ostrobothnia, Central Ostrobothnia, Northern Ostrobothnia — but these same phenomena do not exist in the Gulf of Bothnia, why is this phenomenon such as this? If it were agricultural, I am sure that the Gulf of the North would be just as Hutka, because the backbone of Finnish agriculture is the whole Ostrobothnia, starting from that southern part of southern Ostrobothnia, ending in the northernmost parts of Northern Ostrobothnia. There's a lot of our production in this area. Why is this phenomenon so?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u55	Mr President! The esteemed and competent chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy mentioned important points and questions. In any case, I interpreted his speech as saying that, although this is not an actual crisis law, the Committee on the Environment is also moving forward quickly with the report. Indeed, as the Minister has also pointed out, this relates to this next amending budget in order to mobilise resources to implement these measures already this summer. Mr President! Good, well-informed speeches have been heard here that this gypsum treatment is useful in reducing phosphorus nutrient discharges in particular. This will certainly contribute not only to reducing the nutrient load so kept where they are needed, but also to improving the profitability of agriculture, while in the future less of these mineral fertilisers will be needed. Important work is being done here, and I believe that, in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, we will also play our own role as a quick one, despite the fact that there are still exceptional conditions in the country because of this corona crisis. In general, legislation other than these acute crisis management measures has now been waiting for the time to come to an end, but I think it is justified to take this forward, and it was good to hear that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is also making progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u56	Mr President! Indeed, this bill will speed up the gypsum treatment of fields and will also provide the desired additional power for the protection of agricultural waters. I would like to start by saying that I am very pleased that the current government is continuing the strong work of protecting the Baltic Sea that the Sipilä Government did. I do not remember when I would have been as happy as when we had a decision on a major financial package for the protection of the Baltic Sea and when this national programme for improving water protection was decided upon. At that time, EUR 15 million came from 2019 and EUR 69 million from 2019 to 2023. This government has moved on with this work since then. It is very important, as the chairman of the committee, Mr Hoskonen, said, that research is needed. It is a message to the Minister for the Environment and the Government that the budget for research should be adhered to. In particular, we need research into how climate change affects our waters and the Baltic Sea. I myself have always been a strong supporter of this gypsum treatment. When eutrophication is the biggest environmental problem in the Baltic Sea, then it is quite a great thing that by spreading these kinds of waste dumps into the fields we can make a significant contribution to the drain from agriculture to the watercourses. These results of this gypsum are very good, and it has even been estimated that this gypsum could be a rescue for the heavily eutrophic Archipelago Sea and the Baltic Sea as a whole. But this is as if just a Band-Aid, and we need to take stronger measures that do not drain those emissions into the Baltic Sea. An experiment was carried out at the initiative of the Coalition Party on how to recycle phosphorus and various experiments were started on it. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment: have these experiments moved forward, and when will they come to fruition? But I support this bill, and I hope that this government will take forward the Baltic Sea protection programme as a whole. As was said here on the other side of the hall, the Baltic Sea is still the most polluted sea in the world. We know that almost all countries have slipped from the goals and commitments that have been made in HELCOM. Finland has not stayed in them either. If we want to stick to the commitment, then we need to tighten up the measures, and this is one of them. So this bill is welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u57	Mr President! This is a technical change, as has been mentioned here. I attach great importance to all the ways in which we can prevent the eutrophication of waters. However, it should now be remembered that, in a time of crisis like this, we have now seen a real green speech being heard in this Chamber, that agriculture is being blamed in the middle of a crisis period for the eutrophication of our waters. With this warm heart, I listened to Mr Hoskonen's question, which is actually my own question. So we have one of Finland's most powerful granaries in North Ostrobothnia, in the right granary, from the edge of Southern Ostrobothnia to North Ostrobothnia, and now that it sounds like it — especially when you listen to the green edge of the hall — that agriculture has always ruined the waters and the Baltic Sea is in bad shape because of agriculture, how can it be that the same nature from the southern coast to the beautiful coastal regions of Central Ostrobothnia is so different that our Gulf is in good condition and the Baltic Sea is polluted by agriculture? I would certainly like an answer to that. Or is it that we have a situation where, in order to support such a green political agenda, we are raising these issues and we are not pointing out the fact that the Baltic Sea is contaminated by all the other nine countries and that there is much more of that junk in the Baltic Sea than there is in the Baltic Sea? Finland will ever be able to produce? Let us leave the facts to transport, let us put less blame on our farmers. Let us give farmers the fins and the medicines they like to use, because the Finnish farmer, I say, is one of the most responsible farmers in the world. It has always been so and is today, a pioneer, and if we create the same rules of play for our farming as is in Central Europe, then we can be proud that our farmers produce us clean, domestic food. So I wouldn't hit you with a stamp ax. Every speech on the green side shows how agriculture is lushing it, how agriculture is lushing it and this. [Inka Hopsu’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u58	Mr President! Indeed, Finnish agriculture is our spirit and life. It guarantees us the food we need every day and, above all, the cleanest field in the world and the cleanest climate in the world, so we can be proud of it. Now this corona crisis has demonstrated to us the importance of security of supply. We live on about 80% self-sufficiency in food production every day, and it is easy to raise it to 100% if necessary, but this crisis has shown us now that we have to keep the fields in order and the food production from the field to the dining table, the whole chain. Let us hope that this is now in the house in the best possible way. The Finnish farmer makes the best product in the world with great professionalism and very low costs, and we must ensure that this family farming process in Finland remains alive. This is an essential part of the proper management of the field, and this gypsum treatment is one small part of it. And when it specifically binds nutrients and then gives better harvest, it also reduces the other leaching from the field. As the field grows better, its nutrients bind to those plants and do not move anywhere. As a proud forest professional, I can also say that this development of the Kemera legislation has now reached the point that the Kemera Act is becoming the ash-fertilisation clause, according to which we can increase the growth of the forest so much that at the same time we can easily increase the growth of forests by some 10 million mots. It's not a problem when we handle it sensibly. We have the raw materials in our home country, the power plants produce ash every day, and then when it is applied to peatlands, we can easily achieve the extra 10 million mots growth when we do the right thing. Then, at the same time, we are dealing with the climate target, because, of course, we have more wood growth, more carbon sequestration, then we can survive emissions trading with much, much less. You can almost say we're gonna get away with it like a dog. In other words, we have only good things ahead of us when we do not now fall into the national envy of Finland that someone might even benefit if a forest grows better or a field grows better. Let us ensure that these two things, both forest and field, move forward in a positive way, increasing better yields for both farmers and forest owners, the Finnish forest industry and for the benefit of Finnish society as a whole. Mr President! Finally, when Parliament deals with this law just like a representative Mr Autto said in his own speech, and I have indeed, as the President himself, been taking this matter forward in the Council of Presidents. Such a necessity, a law that will contribute to our cause, has been a common will in the Council of Presidents, and I have, for my part, contributed to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u59	Mr President! Of course, when it comes to agriculture, we have to say that the nutrient load that causes eutrophication must be reduced in society as a whole. We cannot accept, as has been pointed out here, the overruns of urban waste water in Finland in the 21st century, but the treatment plants must operate efficiently and with certainty. Yes, the quality of wastewater treatment needs to be improved in many ways around Finland, so that nutrients can be efficiently recovered from the actual waste water and from the waste water. It is clear, however, that agriculture is something to which attention must be paid. Yes, I would like to say here, when it comes to plaster, that the most urgent thing is to get it into the phosphorous fields of the Archipelago Sea to disarm the Archipelago Sea's manure bomb, which is undoubtedly there. Yes, I would like to say here that, overall, agri-environmental policy should be reformed more effectively when we know that a large proportion of emissions will come from 20% of arable land. If there is a more recent study, well, it is good that we examine how climate change affects us. But we know that we have areas of risk, and that is why this gypsum treatment of fields should also be included in the agri-environmental programme, and it would be good to hear how we can move forward here as if. I think it is very important. Then I would like to point out that during the last parliamentary term, when the coalition was a government party, an experiment was launched on our initiative to reduce the accumulation of surplus nutrients in fields and promote the movement of nutrients to the farms where they need to be. So the intention was indeed to create that circular economy market for organic fertilisers. This would then benefit farms and also the Baltic Sea and the promotion of domestic food production. That's very important to all of us. Let me ask you this: how is this experiment going, and where is it going? We attach great importance to this in the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party and we want to foster domestic food production. It is clean, but in that we can do even better in many ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u60	The time allocated to the debate is running out, but I will give the Minister for the Environment the opportunity to comment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u61	Yes, thank you very much for those contributions. It is very good to hear that Parliament also sees that this amendment of the law could be urgently made and enforced so that we can spread the plaster in late summer. The fact that it is not just agriculture that has an impact on water protection, but it is also true that agriculture has an important role to play, and this gypsum treatment is now intended to reduce it. It is especially suitable for these clay soils in Varsinais-Suomi. In addition, this programme for improving water protection includes other measures, including fibre sludge in the agricultural sector and the use of nutrient lime in reducing agricultural emissions. It is also looking for ways to reduce nutrient emissions from forestry. As Mr Hoskonen said, the new study has shown that it is of great importance. In addition, urban waters are one of the targets, not only the quantities of harmful substances in urban waters but also the issue of waste water, that they function properly. It also contains a few wrecks that are at the bottom of the sea that have already been used to empty the oils so that they do not pose a risk. In addition to that, research plays a major role. This gypsum project is carried out in close cooperation with operators in Varsinais-Suomi. In addition to the Ely Centre, there are also MTK-Varsinis-Suomi, Syke, University of Helsinki, Food Agency, Luke, Aurajoki Foundation, Paimionjoki Association, Agricultural Counselling and local producer associations. As has been pointed out here, this gypsum project began, of course, during the last term of government. It was a lot of research. We have researched information that it will affect, and this will continue to be followed up. Representative Sarkomaa also raised nutrient recycling. We have a separate Raki project, which is precisely creating opportunities for us to get those nutrients into circulation and then turn them into fertilizer, which can be reused.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u62	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence, to which the Administrative Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. The matter is presented by Minister Paatero. I understand that Minister Kaikkonen is about to leave. If you wish to speak, you can use it immediately after Mr Paatero.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u63	Mr President! This is therefore a proposal for a law on Senate property, defence property and related few other laws. This show has long been missed. People who have been representatives of the Committee on Defence and, in part, other committees on security know that this has long been necessary. Many studies have been carried out, and now I am glad that this government programme also included a policy that the defence administration's real estate system will be developed to serve the needs of the defence administration better than before. On that basis, a joint project office, which has been in operation since last August, has been established in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and Finance, and there have been a steering group and separate project groups so that around 80 people from different parties involved have been involved in this preparation. In addition to that, we have had the debate of the Committee of Ministers for Economic Policy on 17 December, in which common guidelines have been drawn up, and now we have reached this very government proposal. This legislative package therefore includes a law on Senate real estate and defence property, while at the same time amending the law on business institutions in general and a few other laws. This Commercial Law on Defence Properties and Senate Properties is a special law, which therefore includes provisions on the reorganisation of state-owned Defence Properties and on the business-specific provisions for the Senate Group and Senate Properties. So now two separate organisations are being built, i.e. the real estate assets would in future be concentrated on two business organisations, the current Senate properties and the defence properties to be established, which will then form the Senate Group jointly. In this case, the Senate is independent, but in any case the supreme control is exercised by the Parliament, which, in the annual budgetary procedures, confirms the service and operational objectives of the business body, gives its consent to borrowing — how much they can borrow — investments and other commitments. In the framework of parliamentary guidance, the Ministry of Defence would then direct Defence Properties and the Ministry of Finance Senate Properties, i.e. the steering and organisation, have been built in this way. This is becoming quite large, as this combination has a total of 1100 employees and a combined turnover of around EUR 800 million. Real estate assets would be transferred from inside the current Senate property to the defence properties to be established separately there, and the personnel currently employed in the building plant would also be transferred mainly to defence properties, but there are also some joint activities, which will probably justify a transfer of some of the personnel to the Senate Properties Group. All transfers take place on the basis of the principle of transfer of business, i.e. keeping working and salary conditions and other conditions, and there is no need for any deduction in this respect for staff, but there have been more shortcomings in the area of, for example, construction services. The law — thank you to Parliament — has now been presented, as the aim is that the law should be in force on 1 July this year, when the business could then start at the turn of the year. And when this is about such a large amount of personnel and the transfer of property, it is understandable that they require some preparation and then negotiations with the staff. I hope that this will proceed in good cooperation here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u64	Mr President! The main objective of this project on the ownership of the Defence Administration’s premises was to find ways to safeguard the operating conditions related to the Defence Forces’ areas and premises in the changed operating environment and in all security situations. In addition, the aim was to respond to the challenges arising from the increase in the Defence Forces' property costs. Without changes, the cost level and its share of the Defence Forces' operating expenditure budget had been forecast to increase continuously, although the Defence Forces have significantly improved the use of space over the past few years due to the annual holiday reform and operating model changes. In addition, the aim was to develop the administrative sector's space management and its strategic steering, and to develop the state-wide real estate sector more broadly, especially from the perspective of preparedness and security. In accordance with Prime Minister Marin's Government Programme, this Government proposal proposes the establishment of a subsidiary company for Senate Properties, Defence Property, which would be responsible for the premises of the Defence Forces and its certain strategic partners in all security situations. Defence properties and Senate properties would together form a Senate group where almost all administrative and support services would be produced jointly to improve and harmonise operations. To the extent that businesses produce the same services, a doubling would allow flexible use of resources. However, as Mr Paatero has just said, defence property would be a partner in the defence force's contract and cooperation for all services. It can also be said here that this proposal was in a somewhat problematic position at some stage of preparation, but, in good cooperation with Minister Paatero, the matter was guided in a better direction, and it can now be said that the proposed change meets the needs of the defence administration. The model of one strategic partner in the real estate sector is the most effective solution in the administrative sector based on previous internal studies, which makes sense. The centralised provision of administrative and support services within the Group is an appropriate arrangement from the point of view of cost management. It also enables the special expertise of defence properties in the fields of preparedness, security, protective construction and environmental protection to be used for the needs of other government authorities. In organising the production of the Group's joint services, the performance requirements of defence properties must be taken into account not only in normal conditions but also in disturbances and emergency conditions. The production of critical joint services must be able to be secured in a similar way to the own service production of defence properties. Similarly, the security management and processing of the Defence Forces' property data must be ensured. Mr President! The Government's proposal sets out the principles for the supervision of defence properties and the Senate Group. In principle, the Senate Group would be in the administrative sector and under the direction of the Ministry of Finance. However, the Ministry of Defence would direct defence properties when providing services to the Defence Forces and its partners. The effectiveness of the two ministries’ steering models requires a detailed agreement on steering and continuous close cooperation in the implementation of steering. Because Defence properties in practice depend on the joint services provided by Senate properties, these must also be taken into account in the steering process. Decisions concerning the whole group are taken by the Senate Real Estate Board, which is why interministerial steering cooperation should also be extended to this level. In the steering model, operating models should be taken into account in possible emergency conditions and in the event of disturbances in normal conditions. As a result of the change, the defence administration would move to the overall rental model commonly used by the state. The change would not have a direct impact on real estate costs as the capital rent consists of the same elements used in the current Defence Forces rental model. In order to verify the impact of reorganisation and efficiency, a model for cost monitoring should be set up to monitor the impact compared to the forecast. The monitoring should be able to identify the effects of the change in the property system and the effects of the Defence Forces’ own operations, such as the further efficiency of space use. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! From this point of view, progress can be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u65	With two thorough ministerial presentations, I will extend this half an hour to three quarters of an hour, and we will have a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u66	Mr President! In the Government Programme on Defence Properties, the following were recorded: “The defence administration’s real estate system is being developed to serve the defence A subsidiary company will be set up for Senate Properties, which will be responsible for the special needs of the Defence Administration in a changed security situation. The obligations of defence property are governed by law. The aim is to reduce the increase in farm costs.’ Unfortunately, that entry has failed. I recognise this, even though I was in the government negotiations in the working group in question, and it is therefore necessary to recognise that my own mistake has also been made. In the Committee on Defence, there is probably a very large consensus that harmful rental and payment machines, in many cases rent slavery, must be eliminated in other areas of government. The same spirit prevailed in the governmental negotiations, but that spirit took a failed form in the record. The recycling of state money so that it undermines the effective fulfilment of the basic tasks of the Defence Forces is a short-sighted part-optimization, not a comprehensive development. In fact, there is a point in the explanatory statement of the government's proposal which opens up this question and the situation quite well. Direct quote: ‘As an independent establishment In principle, defence property would be in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Defence and thus under the direction of the Ministry of Defence. In this case, the steering powers of the Ministry of Finance would not be carried out in the same way as in the model of the subsidiary.’ And further: ‘There would be a risk that the State rent model and the State would “ Mr President! A few picks from the government's bill of law. First, Senate real estate confirms the accounts of defence properties and corresponds to part of the amount of the loan. Secondly, the President and CEO of Senate Properties acts as rapporteur in matters that have a significant impact on the Group as a whole. And thirdly, the draft defence property budget, objectives, performance targets and income recognition will be included in the corresponding Senate property presentations. All these points demonstrate in concrete terms the position of the subsidiary in the group structure. The fact that the Chairman of the Board of Defence Properties and the majority of the members of the Board of Directors are appointed on a proposal from the Ministry of Defence does not weigh much in the event of a possible dispute. It should also be noted that this major change also applies to the staff of the Defence Administration’s building company. I hope that, in committee, these issues will be taken into account and those top-tops will be built into the report already in this Chamber so that no new mini-Senate will be created. This will not solve the basic problem if this happens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u67	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Former Commander of the Defence Forces, General Jarmo Lindberg stated at the opening of the defence course that we were about to forge swords into houses, and pointed out how much of the defence budget these property expenditure has taken since 2003 when the Defence Forces property was transferred to the State Department. This reform has long been awaited. After all, the Defence Forces today have some 2.7 million square metres of real estate and some one-tenth of the Defence Forces budget sinks into rentals, which is quite a large sum. This increasing expenditure on buildings is out of readiness, education and material procurement, and we have been looking for a solution to this problem for a long time in the Committee on Defence, and this proposal is not exactly what we have been waiting for in the assembly. Minister of Defence Kaikkonen gave a very positive impression of this. Of course, the Defence Forces in general are very adaptable, and they are conscientiously doing what the political system says, but I have been able to get the message from myself that this proposal does not really satisfy the Defence Forces, at least in those debates which are not quite the official ones. The Coalition Party is therefore not in favour of this subsidiary model. As Mr Mustajärvi pointed out earlier, this does not necessarily and probably will solve the problems that have been. So is this a genuine system that does not have a separate host who defines rent and then manages to contain these increases in rent? The Coalition Party has advocated a model in which the Defence Forces' real estate would be decoupled from Senate property into a self-employed entity and thus managed more effectively by the Defence Forces. On the other hand, I was wondering if, if this problem-size-fits-all, the kind of Senate real estate is in many ways, the Senate Group is now being created, then the same problems will remain there. The police, for example, have considerable concerns similar to those displayed on the Defence Forces and many others. Mr President! Right to the end: I am a little surprised that, having agreed in Parliament that only urgent matters relating to corona will be dealt with by Parliament, we have such a big and rather complex and difficult issue coming to the Committee on Defence during this corona spring with a rather urgent timetable and extensive consultation. I do not think it is very appropriate in this situation, and I think it must be considered in this House that if this debate reveals even more problems with this proposal, then it must also be prepared to give Parliament more time to deal with it even in an era without interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u68	Mr President! There are a few points in this government proposal which have been worrying for a long time: firstly, this constant increase in costs is another, and secondly, of course, this increase in the debt of repair and the condition of real estate in general. And when I said this property fitness thing here, I would like to draw attention to indoor problems in this context. In this House, too, there has been a very wide-ranging discussion of this issue. The Audit Committee made a comprehensive report on it, I think it was in 2013, and I have been on the Environment Committee for the last two parliamentary years, eight years, and these things are constantly coming up in the various committees, including the Environment Committee. At the turn of the year, I put a written question to Minister of Defence Kaikkonen about the interior problems of the buildings used by the Defence Forces: how large they are and how to solve them. I have received a good answer, a very thorough answer, and I believe that the Minister has spent at least one weekend doing so — probably together with the officials. I encourage the government and ministers now, with this organisational change, to pay attention to this problem of interior space so that it can be resolved, as you said in this written reply, that you believe that it is realistic to expect changes to lead to special attention being paid to indoor problems and to a better model. It is unreasonable if a motivated youth comes into the military service and has to stop it after a few weeks of service just because indoor problems cause such serious symptoms that it is impossible to continue the service. It is a very big setback: man has designed a certain order in his life, and if you have thought that this is a military service that lasts for several months, even a year, then it will affect study and other life planning. The majority of people who come into service are highly motivated to do so, and it is a very big setback for the family and young people if they then have to stop for such a reason. In other words, I wish this reform a good continuation and fresh indoor conditions, including in barracks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u69	Mr President! An important objective of the Government proposal is to reduce the increase in costs of premises. At the moment, approximately 10% of the military budget goes to real estate expenses. The relative increase in costs has had to be curbed, for example, by the cuts in the garrison, depot and other space structures in the defence power reform. Despite the reduction in the total number of defence premises, real estate expenditure has continued to grow. This has necessarily affected all other activities financed by the same appropriation, which has reduced the conditions under which the Defence Forces operate. The reason for the increase in real estate expenditure is the Senate real estate rental model, which is responsible for managing the central government real estate mass, where the Defence Forces pay more rent for their premises than the costs incurred. However, from the point of view of the State, it makes no sense for its own activities to have to pay a market price for the property. Real estate in the defence industry cannot generate income for the state's business and that is not their intention. Mr President! In the Government’s proposal, the State’s real estate assets are centralised for Senate properties and defence properties to be established as its subsidiary. However, in the studies carried out by the Ministry of Defence, it is recommended that a new business establishment be established for the ownership of the properties in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the defence properties without relation to Senate properties. The Finns have defended this view throughout the process. During the consultation of the Government's proposal, the Parliamentary Ombudsman has also drawn attention to the fact that the role of defence property as an independent business body would reduce the conflict in terms of the Ministry of Finance's control over the state defence buildings of the Ministry of Defence. Mr President! The direction of the proposal is probably the right one, but defence properties should be set up as a completely independent entity under the Ministry of Defence, as the experts have said, not as a subsidiary under the Senate Properties, the Ministry of Finance. The change must also take into account the status of the staff of the Office of the Defence Administration to be wound up. The performance must lead to cost savings for the Defence Forces through lower space rents, not by reducing staff who control experience and specific professional skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u70	Mr President! This is something we have been talking about for a long time, in-depth speeches have been used, and there is also a rather clear record of this in the government programme. Now this government proposal which we have here in Parliament and which is now being discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is, in my view, a good record of what the Government Programme wanted. There were clear basic premissions. Firstly, there was a need for: Defence property will be developed from the needs of the defence administration to the start, and in this model, which is now being sought, it is precisely the independent role of the defence administration in the management of these properties that we want to ensure. The second big point that has been made in several speeches is, of course, these cost pressures, the loss of costs, and here we want to find a model to manage this cost development. The third point, which is very clear in the starting points of the Government Programme, is the safeguarding of the status of staff, and this model, which we are looking for here, is clearly aimed at ensuring that there is no need to reduce the number of staff. This is not a austerity measure on the part of the staff at all; we want to ensure that position. The debates will certainly take place in committee. One question is probably — what is now happening in some groups, the Finns of Finland, at least clearly came — that this should be independent of Senate properties. Of course, a subsidiary subject to Senate real estate is in favour of the fact that we will then have the expertise that is available in Senate real estate for use in this subsidiary and will also avoid unnecessary duplication in these real estate management. After all, those are the criteria that are clearly set out in this government proposal. It seems that there will certainly be some fine-tuning of this matter during the committee reading, but these basic guidelines in the government programme are now being implemented in this model, which is clearly the purpose of this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u71	Mr President! For years, the Finns have been concerned about the rapidly increasing property costs of the Defence Forces, the police, Raja and other security actors. Similarly, we have highlighted the lack of a defence perspective in real estate management, when the Defence Forces' properties were mainly the property of the Senate Real Estate Corporation under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. In line with this proposal, the State’s real estate assets would in future have been concentrated on two business organisations, as has been said here. The mid-term report on the ownership of the Defence Administration premises published in spring 2019 specifically recommended the establishment of a completely new business centre focusing on the ownership and construction of defence properties and the management and maintenance of them in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Defence. So, hopefully, the direction is the right one, but it will not remedy these real major problems, as has been said several times here. More generally, it is important to ensure that business considerations do not go beyond security or defence considerations. National defence and, for example, the right of garrison to clean indoor air barracks should not have a business topic. With regard to the police and Raja, for example, it is unreasonable that the increasing costs of the farm year after year are consuming resources from actual work and operating funding. This should not be the case, but it is. There is no more budgeting for money, but it goes on more and more to the premises and, among other things, to the ict projects. At the same time, indoor air problems even drive these people out of the industry. Expansive property costs are the custom of the country. It's a people's disease to suffer from indoor air problems. The current model has disrupted the operating expenditure budgeting on the state side. In the Defence Administration, the buildings and premises are part of the Defence Forces' operational performance and its security. They are therefore not just any office building, and it is therefore important to ensure that the real estate administration is responsible for the statutory tasks and operational capacity. More broadly, however, it is not only a question of regulation on defence property, but also of comprehensive regulation on state premises and other facilities, and hence the development of governance. The problem should be approached as a whole. Now, in this show, there's only one corner of the big thing that's scratched.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u72	Mr President! The question of the state of the Defence Forces is now in the debate, and here is the reference to Senate properties in many speeches. It has probably been said for decades that when the Senate property requirement is, I think, around 7%, it has been taken from other state activities all the time — the Defence Forces have now been identified here, but the Border Guard is also one of the major and police activities and all this type of activity. A great deal of indoor air problems were raised in the budget consultation, especially in the Administrative and Security Section. They are extremely harmful and have a significant impact on the health of the staff. This is one step forward and, of course, would also like to see progress made in all areas of state administration in such a way that what Parliament accepts in its budget is not then poured into Senate property in rentals and that the operation can be secured. The higher the rents, the less, of course, from that budget to the actual activity. Now, in this Government proposal, the Senate Real Estate Corporation is formed into a Senate Group of two commercial establishments and Senate Real Estate would act as a parent and Defence Real Estate as its subsidiary. The Senate Group's supreme steering power would be exercised by the Parliament. In the budgetary procedure, Parliament would confirm, inter alia, the annual service and operating objectives of the business establishment and give its consent to the group's borrowings, investments and other commitments. Under Parliamentary guidance, the Ministry of Defence would direct defence properties and the Ministry of Finance would direct Senate properties. I am now thinking about the future budget reading: now that Parliament has this significant impact on the budget, how will the future budget guide operations both on the Senate property side and on the subsidiary. At the moment, as we have not been able to learn more about this legislation, it is certainly a very important matter that Parliament, when considering and adopting the budget, then takes these matters into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u73	Mr President! There is a lot of culture here today in the “smart ” government. Personally, in some way I would imagine having a reasonable amount of common sense, however, and this was the first thing that struck me under my feet here in Parliament. I attended a meeting of the Committee on Defence and heard some of the first visions on this issue. I understand that there has been a very unified view here during the last term of the government that defence properties should be separated from the Senate. In my opinion, this has been quite clear to everyone, both on the left and on the right and in the middle, everywhere. When I was listening to this motion and there it was said that the property under the control of the Defence Forces was being moved away from the Senate and placed in a subsidiary set up under the Senate, it must be said that it was a little difficult to digest this issue. In my opinion, this is absolutely scandalous that we should go on such a ridiculous show to bring here. I do not understand what can be so in the record of the Government Programme that this is the way to proceed. That would be the clearest thing to do when: Defence property would be placed under the administration of the Ministry of Defence. This doesn't make any sense. We have Senate properties where the CEO receives a salary of EUR 300000 and there is no risk of taking forward and billing the Defence Forces for these matters. Perhaps it should be mentioned here when these other sectors were raised, whether the Senate properties were necessary in some way. Should we have police properties and border properties and defence properties? This is inconceivable that such a dairy cow should be kept here, supported alongside this sort of thing. I'm sure there's synergies, but there's no point in building any mini-Senate-Dish inside a Senate-Dish like this. This is my speech. Such a claim for income from tax assets, 7%, is incomprehensible. - I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u74	Mr President! The members of the National Defence Committee are concerned about the rapidly increasing costs of the Defence Forces and, above all, the lack of a defence perspective in real estate management, when the Defence Forces' properties are mainly the property of the Senate Real Estate Corporation under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. In line with the present proposal, the State’s real estate assets would in future be concentrated on two business organisations: this current Senate Real Estate business and its new subsidiary defence properties. Together, these would form the Senate Group. The property held by the Senate Property Owner and used by the Defence Forces would be transferred to the Defence Property. At the same time, the activities of the building plant of the Defence Administration which currently manages this property would largely be transferred to defence properties and, in some respects, to Senate properties. The interim report on the ownership of the Defence Administration premises published in spring 2019 recommends the establishment of a new business centre for the ownership and construction of defence properties in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Defence, also known as Defence Properties. Minister, the direction is the right one, but should it be: As experts have pointed out, defence property is based on a completely independent entity under the auspices of the Ministry of Defence? So not as a subsidiary under the Senate Real Estate, i.e. the Ministry of Finance. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u75	Mr President! When the debate started, there were 13 requests to speak, and I put my own speech to the end because I thought that this debate would probably go about the way it has gone: there are many speeches that are very critical of centralised property ownership and centralised farm management. I myself have some experience of this, but of course I am not an expert in the Senate here. But for nine years, as the CEO of the HUS group, the largest joint municipal authority in our country, we had a million square metres of office — I just saw that the Senate manages or owns 6 million, that is to say, six times the size — and this basic problem, which has been discussed in some way in this speech, became very familiar. Well, I'm not going to stand up for the Senate in any way. I recognise these problems and challenges relating to who is the host, who is the servant, and in particular what Mr Mäenpää and many others have said here that whether there is enough of that know-how in the administrative or industry concerned there. This same debate took place in connection with this last attempt to reform the social welfare system, when all the hospitals in Finland were concentrating on the farm centre of the Provinces. That's when I took a critical stand. Well, then you might think that that position would be analog to this, so that I myself would be in favour of the defence administration's own unit. This is a basic point worth considering, and I think that Mr Purra was quite analytical about this. I think it has to do with the fact that in the Committee on Administration, in which he holds the chair and in which I myself am a member and the next speaker is a member, we have been going through this same problem with regard to the Border Guard and the police. In other words, it is in the interest of us to concentrate on a particular area of expertise, in this case property ownership, property management, property management, just as it makes sense for transport to be centralised, for laboratory activities to be centralised, rather than small-scale. It brings expertise, but it must then be able to get the flow of money, the genuine host, so that it does not happen from the outside that it is prescribed that now your administrative sector, even if it is the defence administration or the police, will be 3%, but the cost of real estate will rise by 10%. That's when it eats up the actual operating expenses. In other words, this mechanism, how it is managed and how it is financed, must provide clarity. I personally do not take a critical position on this proposal, but I wanted to take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u76	Within the time available, I will give the floor to the representatives of Holopainen, Eskelinen, Pierainen, and then the debate will be suspended if there are any further contributions. — And to the Minister, yes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u77	Mr President! There has been a good debate on this challenge, which we now have in relation to the military property, but also, as has been mentioned here, with other security operators. This increase in operating space costs threatens to eat away from that actual activity and is not a sustainable situation, especially when, at the same time, there are very large indoor air problems in these buildings. For the Defence Forces, real estate accounts for a significant share of operating expenditure. As has been mentioned here, they represent an annual expense of more than EUR 260 million. In this modern model, which is very complex, the Defence Forces are a tenant and are responsible for maintaining the targets and then the landlord, Senate Properties, is responsible for renovations and new investments and then, in turn, the Defence Forces will continue to purchase the maintenance work from the building company. It has been recognised in previous studies that this complex governance model has not been able to curb the increase in real estate expenditure and is also problematic in terms of premises and real estate management and also jeopardises the maintenance of the value of this property stock. Defence property is also subject to a completely separate requirement for the safety of the premises, especially as the Finnish security environment has become more challenging, and special security of supply and operational security is required from the Finnish Defence Forces. For example, property automation systems must be protected against possible cyber attacks. Critical property information must also be protected from intelligence and thus minimised all vulnerabilities. It is therefore absolutely essential to recognise that the real estate service provider is a strategic partner in practice, and it is reasonable that this reform should now aim at simpler governance and a solution to these challenges. But now that this debate has raised problems and the same debate has been taking place throughout the autumn in the Committee on Defence and there have been many contacts on this subject, it is still necessary to look carefully at whether this proposed model is the best solution. I am sure that, in the course of the deliberations of the committee, further clarifications will be made in the hearings. There have also been many contacts from the staff. We have been very concerned about how this reform will affect the status of staff, and I would like to ask the Minister for a comment on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u78	Mr President! I will not take a stand on this model of governance myself. I do not know if this is the most optimal model now, but it is quite different from the one before the Senate: a confusing model for real estate maintenance and costs and maintenance and support services. The objectives that have now been set in relation to the economy would seem to be achieved by this model if we refrain from doing so. There, 11% of military and defence expenditure would be covered by these rental costs, and the rent level would be frozen to the 2020 level, which would go to 2035. This sounds good. Then, in a way, these support services will be combined, which will result in the cost savings. It is good that such a strong grip has been put on this staff position. This will also help to centralise and support both business institutions. I'm a little sorry about that. The border guard is now left with exactly the same problems as when it comes to the poor condition of the premises, with regard to moisture problems, plus then with regard to these rent costs, which each time you run into the head of the border guard, are the first thing to do. I'm sure this police department will move on with this model. If there is a need to work something out, then you will have to think about it in the committee round. Then, if you mirror the Government Programme, the objectives of the Government Programme are essentially being realised.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u79	Mr President! I was going to ask the minister just now, but we're running out of time, so I have to ask you a question now. When these income claims have been spoken of before and then looked at how much property is empty on Senate properties and how much is rented — and, of course, when they are empty, there must be some way to get paid for the fixed costs — is it taken out of the premises that are rented? To Mr Eskelinen's question: It is precisely just as far as the Border Guard is concerned that I too have received feedback in sparsely populated areas that there is a much higher rent price for real estate than, for example, the market price. Especially when small renovations are made, the price immediately increases significantly. I think it would be worth participating in some way from Raja's side in the construction of the same type of property structure as from the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u80	Since the last few speeches have been so concise, contrary to what has just been said, I will give the floor to Mr Kopra. Then the Minister, and this part of the debate ends.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u81	Thank you for your flexibility, Mr President. This management of the police, Raja and the Defence Forces' buildings and those problems are painfully familiar to us all, and we certainly have a consensus here in Parliament that this should be resolved. It is great that the government has tackled this problem, but unfortunately, Mr Paatero, I do not think that your proposal will solve this problem. The fact that defence properties are encapsulated under the Ministry of Finance in the former Senate does not correct the problem that has been addressed, but should be implemented in such a way that this entire property management for defence properties is transferred to the Ministry of Defence. There is central knowledge and expertise required for the use and maintenance of this building mass. I hope, of course, that Parliament will give this proposal some impetus in this regard, so that the most sensible and the best possible solution can be found to deal with this problem. It would have been good if the police and the Border Guard had been involved in this package, but probably their time will be later. I fully agree with Mr Pierainen's view that they are now here as interveners and the need for a better property management model is also there for Raja and the police to cry out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u82	Mr President! Here came many things from the Senate in general, but also from this in particular. However, it must be reiterated that this proposal, which is now before Parliament, is a joint proposal from the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance, i.e. there is no longer the will of the Defence Administration and the will of the Ministry of Finance, but there is one proposal on which all the questions have been examined together and this common will has been given to this proposal. So that is the starting point. And here, as it is stated, from the one Senate today, all the defence government properties are transferred to their own subsidiary business and also that decision-making power so that its Board of Defense Real Estate is decided by the Treasury, but the proposals on who sits on that board come from the Defence Forces' side. The power of decision and what properties are needed, how much they are to be used for, etc. comes from the Defence Forces. There is, of course, the issue that has also been raised here, for example, with regard to these security, ict systems and so on, that they can be held in the same hands there, so that the people who work in defence property are also those who have access to all these security ratings and, in the case of our various telecommunications networks, those who have access to them, and this is how they can be dealt with. Then we have common administrative people, for example in the calculation of salaries and other activities that can then take care of matters on both sides. After all, the situation has not been ideal at the moment, because we have had those properties on the Senate side, which manages renovations and renovations, and then, on the other hand, we have this property management, maintenance and normal use under the supervision of the building establishment. There have been such narrowities in between what part of these tasks belong to where, and now we get them into the same organization, so I think that service level will improve in this respect, because they will then manage everything for one property.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u85	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. This issue also allows for a debate on the 7th issue of the agenda, and the debate can cover the wider scope of the strategy for the dismantling of exceptional measures. After the presentation by Prime Minister Sanna Marin, which is 15 minutes, there will be a round of group speeches with a maximum of 5 minutes. After the round of group talks, I will give you the answers I have considered in the order of 1 minute. Answers are reserved by V-button. The other speeches are of normal duration, i.e. no more than 3 minutes. By way of derogation from the prior notification, two hours shall be reserved for the referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. In other words, the other scheduled items — for the attention of the ministers — move forward by half an hour. I hope you will be able to adjust the timetable according to this decision that has just been taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u86	Mr President! The Government has today adopted a resolution of principle which includes a plan to continue the restrictive measures imposed to control the corona virus epidemic and to dismantle it in a controlled and gradual manner. As a result of the COVID-19 corona virus pandemic, Finland has been subject to emergency conditions under the Emergency Act for about two months. Although the spread of the virus has been controlled, the disease and the specific threat it poses remain. The government has estimated that the regular powers are not sufficient to protect the population and ensure the carrying capacity of health care. For this reason, the Government has decided to introduce the Emergency Act by means of regulations to continue to exercise the powers of some of the articles of the Emergency Act. The Government has adopted two implementing regulations. The first of these is the decree on the continued use of the competence to direct health care provided for in Article 87 of the Emergency Act. The second implementing regulation provides for Articles 86, 88, 93 and 94 of the Emergency Act. the continuation of the exercise of the powers laid down in the Treaties. Under the Emergency Act, the Regulation provides for the directing of social welfare and health care units, the right of the municipality to waive compliance with the time limits for urgent care provided for in the Health Care Act and the assessment of the need for social care services, the derogation from the provisions of the Working Time Act on rest periods and overtime, and the provisions of the annual leave Act on health care and social services, rescue services, emergency centres and police services, and the extension of the period of dismissal of a health care, social services, emergency services and emergency services worker, an official and a municipal official. Both Regulations will enter into force on 14 May 2020. The Regulations will remain in force until 30 June 2020. If the conditions for application of the Regulations are no longer met, the Regulations will be repealed before the end of June. Mr President! The current limitation measures are mainly of a very general and broad nature with a view to reducing physical contact. The restrictive measures and recommendations adopted have managed to curb the progression of the epidemic and protect people at risk. In addition to benefits, restrictive measures also have harmful social and economic effects and some measures restrict the implementation of fundamental rights. The economic, social and health impacts of the Corona virus epidemic and the related restrictions are considerable and in many respects potentially long-term. In order to reduce the adverse effects of epidemics and restrictive measures, a number of support measures have already been decided to help people, communities and businesses in the midst of the corona crisis. Since Finland has so far achieved a good response to the epidemic, it is possible to move from large-scale restrictive measures towards testing, tracing, isolation and management in accordance with the hybrid strategy. The Government's aim is to continue to seek to prevent the spread of the virus in society, to safeguard the carrying capacity of health care and to protect people particularly at risk. As restrictive measures are gradually removed, the evolution of the epidemic and the burden on health care will be closely monitored and evaluated. The Government is committed to evaluating its policies in the light of the monitoring data and to changing them if necessary. Mr President! Finland is gradually opening up towards the summer. Efforts are being made to dismantle these restrictions in a controlled and gradual manner so that the disease situation is kept under control, the carrying capacity of health care is not compromised and the lives and health of people at risk can be protected. From 14 May, basic education and early childhood education will return to contact teaching in a controlled and staggered manner. At the same time, it is possible to carry out commuting at internal borders, in a manner similar to that used at the western and northern borders. The outdoor areas will also be opened in accordance with the assembly restrictions. The ten-person assembly limit is valid until the end of May. At the same time as local education in basic and early childhood education begins, it is also possible to return to contact education at other levels of education. However, the Government recommends that distance education in universities, polytechnics, upper secondary school education, vocational education, free education and basic adult education be continued until the end of the semester. The organisers of the training decide for themselves the extent to which contact teaching is organised if necessary. In the summer, local education is arranged in accordance with looseness and hygiene instructions. As of 14 May, regulatory restrictions on border traffic will be lifted in cross-border traffic within the Schengen area by allowing commuting based on employment relationship and mandate, as well as other necessary transport. The purpose and conditions of the intended stay shall be explained in the border inspection. Internal border controls will continue at land borders, ports and airports. The recommendation to suspend the sale of tickets by shipowners will end with regard to commuting. Leisure travel abroad is currently not recommended and the travel instructions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue in this respect. Everyone has the right to leave Finland and Finnish citizens always have the right to return to Finland. The external borders remain closed with certain exceptions: for example, freight and freight transport is allowed. Finland considers it important to coordinate efforts to dismantle border traffic restrictions at EU level. Mr President! From 1 June, restaurants and cafes can be opened gradually and in a controlled manner. The assembly limit will be changed from 10 to 50 persons and will remain in force for an indefinite period. At the beginning of June, indoor and regionally restricted outdoor spaces can also be opened in such a way as to ensure safety through customer limits, safety distances and hygiene instructions. The retention of nutrition movements has major adverse economic effects, which are concentrated in one sector of the economy. The opening of premises to customers may start gradually from the beginning of June, provided that it is supported by the effects of the lifting of the restrictions now to be imposed and by a subsequent overall epidemiological assessment. This requires that legislation be adapted so that restrictions can be imposed on, for example, the number of customers and the length of the drinks. Legislative proposals will be submitted to the government next week, 13. 1 May 2020. The current restrictions and validity of the Act on accommodation and catering activities are assessed as required by Parliament every two weeks. The assembly restrictions are based on an epidemiological assessment of the spread of the disease in situations where the number of social contacts is high. The Regional Administrative Agencies are competent under the Act on communicable diseases to ban public events and general meetings for a maximum period of one month at a time. The organisation of large public events of more than 500 persons shall be prohibited until 31 July 2020 in accordance with the Government’s policy. There is still a need for further restrictions on assembly. Epidemiological assessment and forecasting enable the limitation of the number of persons at public and general meetings from the 10 persons currently in force to a maximum of 50 persons from 1 June for an indefinite period. In addition, the government recommends that more than 50 persons should not be gathered at private events that are not public events. These include private celebrations, cultural events, hobbies, sports events and religious events organised by the private and third sectors. Sporting competitions and series can be launched in June with special arrangements. The public spaces now closed will be opened at the beginning of June in a controlled and gradual manner. These include museums of the state and municipalities, theatres, libraries, leisure facilities and places, swimming pools and other sports facilities, youth facilities and club facilities. Borrowing books and other material from libraries is, however, allowed immediately. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Education and Culture prepare a guidance letter to the Regional State Administrative Agencies providing guidance on the hygiene and other requirements necessary to prevent the spread of infectious disease and on the limits of the number of customers on the premises. In the case of indoors and territorially restricted outdoor spaces such as amusement parks and zoos, safety is ensured through customer limits, safety distances and hygiene instructions. It is therefore possible to have more than 50 people in these premises, taking into account the above considerations. Mr President! Some of the restrictive measures are in force for an indefinite period. For example, the recommendation on distance work will continue and restrictions on visits to social welfare and health care units will be maintained. Remote work according to the recommendation has worked well as a general rule and the recommendation continues for the time being. The recommendation is justified in order to reduce exposure to close contact and the risk of infection. Pursuant to Article 17 of the Act on communicable diseases, visits to the social welfare and health care services are restricted by the department's own decisions. Restrictions shall be maintained for an indefinite period. On a case-by-case basis, it is still possible to allow asymptomatic close relatives of critically ill and children, close relatives of hospice patients and spouses or dependants in the maternity ward. In particular, more detailed guidance on practices to improve and maintain customer and patient safety will be continued in order to protect vulnerable groups and groups at increased risk of infection. These practices relate, among other things, to visits to social welfare and health care services. New practices, e.g. in care units, will be promoted in order to facilitate safe social contacts. The recommended guidelines for the protection of population at increased risk of infection are maintained and reviewed in such a way as to further enhance the protection of the population against infection, while at the same time recognising the requirements of respect for their other fundamental and human rights, the safeguarding of their ability to act and their social and economic needs. The Code of Conduct is still in force to recommend that people over 70 remain separate from physical contact as far as possible with other people. However, the Government emphasises the discretion of the members of the risk group when applying the Code of Conduct. Mr President! The guidelines for the continuation and dismantling of restrictive measures are based on an overall assessment of the epidemiological, legal and other social aspects of the management of the epidemic, such as social and economic aspects. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stressed that the overall harm to society caused by restrictive measures should be assessed in relation to their benefits. As we move towards a new phase in the management of the interest rate, i.e. gradually dismantling the restrictions, the responsible behaviour and judgement of every citizen, company and community is emphasised. The situation is still serious. That is why each of us must take into account our own health and that of fellow people. In the midst of all the restrictions and recommendations, what matters most is how we act ourselves. Until now, Finns have acted with great responsibility, and I am confident that we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u87	We're going to have a conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u88	Mr President! In March, we drifted into unknown waters as the corona virus epidemic spread to Finland. Like the rest of the world, we faced a new and serious threat. However, we did not agree to surrender to the corona virus, but decided to fight it. This decision required a rapid response from the government. Parliament adopted a decision on the partial introduction of the Emergency Response Act and on totally exceptional restrictions on society, individuals and businesses. These decisions were followed by the dedication of the Finns. Finns act as a people in this crisis in an exemplary manner in accordance with restrictions. That is why the disease situation in Finland is now one of the best in the world. We have managed to protect those at risk and to ensure the carrying capacity of our healthcare. That is why we can start to open up society gradually and in a controlled way. Thank you for that to everyone in Finland. Mr President! The opening up of society starts with the cornerstone of our equality and civilisation: the library. It also has symbolic value. It is a sign that we are a strong civilised society. It is a civil society that is well placed to cope with the challenges ahead. Because we still have a long way to go. We're just getting started. Schools open their doors to children and young people in mid-May, as well as outdoor activities. Business travel at internal borders will be reopened, in accordance with quarantine instructions. At the beginning of June, museums, theatres, sports facilities, libraries and youth and club facilities open their doors again to citizens. Gradually and in a controlled manner, restrictions will be lifted. But we're still not going back. We live under the threat of a corona, and it is important that in our new everyday life we observe security intervals, take care of hygiene and follow the instructions of the authorities. It is wise to admit that we do not yet know all about this virus. It is possible that in the summer the disease will not spread in exactly the same way as in the winter season. However, as autumn and winter progress, it is highly likely that the second wave of the pandemic will come. We must therefore make every provision for some restrictive measures to be tightened up again in the autumn. Then we must be ready from the very first moment for effective tracking and control of the supply chains. Therefore, in addition to the management and gradual dismantling of restrictive measures, the Government’s plan is based on the principle of testing, tracing, isolation and management. Mr President! Our demanding task now is to find a balance that will enable us to protect our citizens from a dangerous disease, but without unduly causing other problems for Finns. It is therefore necessary to assess not only the development of the disease but also other aspects, such as our growing health debt, when urgent treatments have had to be withdrawn. The need for treatment has now accumulated, and it also poses health threats. It is therefore essential that people also get and seek treatment during these exceptional times. The flexibility of urgent care must not endanger anyone's health. There is also great concern about the health and well-being of older people. It is not easy to lay down restrictive measures to protect the elderly from the coronavirus, while at the same time we know that these restrictions can also undermine the overall well-being of those over 70 years of age. One misunderstanding should therefore be corrected. It is related to mobility: it is not prohibited for elderly people to move outside. On the contrary, walking is important for everyone, for it refreshes both the body and the mind. Although physical contacts must be avoided, we all need social intimacy, including the elderly. For people over 70 years of age, we need to monitor the effects of these restrictions closely. We need to find solutions to find the best balance. Mr President! Finally, every crisis has its origins and its end. We still have a long way to go. As we move forward, we all need patience, flexibility and tolerance. However, step by step we can return to a more normal everyday life. It's not the time yet, but it'll come. We're gonna get through this, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u89	Mr President! Within a week, hundreds of thousands of schoolchildren will move to schools. School transport starts, public transport is full of school travelers, teachers move to contact education. The government decided to open schools ahead of the school only for the last two weeks of the academic year, while restaurants, for example, are still waiting for even the smallest opening measures for weeks. The government has justified its exit choices in different ways. In the case of schools, for example, social reasons have been weighing down, that is, the fact that some children are ill at home. For this reason, all children must go to school, even though the benefits of two weeks of even poor children are not at all clear. Secondly, the government has justified its exit choices on legal and constitutional grounds. It has been said that distance learning cannot continue for two weeks because it would no longer be necessary. However, this legal argument is also based on a health analysis and an analysis of the spread of the virus itself. There is no unambiguous and undisputed expertise in the interest rate epidemic on which to base and base its decisions. But this is what the government does. The glaring views expressed by the National Institute for Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the slow and political response rather than active anticipation and preparedness, and the damage and obvious errors have become familiar over the weeks. There is a great deal of contrast between doctors, epidemiologists and virologists and within the scientific community, both in Finland and internationally, on the line represented by the government and its confidant experts. There's been a discussion on respiratory shields for months. Many ask why they are not recommended even now when opening up society. The government and its experts have bent on a wide range of acrobatic performances when they come up with why masks would not be useful for Finns and why we would not know how to use them. The fact is that there are not enough masks even for the medical staff, so they are not dared to recommend them to the public either. But the government's doing some research. The study on protective equipment is due to be completed as Midsummer when schools open in a week. Procrastination and infallibility cannot be justified by the Constitution or by expertise. Mr President! Fortunately, the number of deaths in Finland is not as high as our western neighbour in Sweden. There the virus has spread to nearly 600 nursing homes, nearly 3,000 deaths have been recorded, and estimates seem wild — frankly, they look like readings of a country that does not protect life, at least the lives of those who have passed their working lives. Some feel that the Swedish model is good despite the deaths, as the country is not closed down as much as Finland and most other countries. However, as far as the economy is concerned, Sweden is not yet in a significantly different situation than Finland. The Swedish economy dives almost as much as Finland, even though restaurants are open, for example. People don't work normally because the virus's killing us. According to Sanna Kurrose, the economist who analysed the situation in Sweden and Finland, economic recovery is also the key to restoring public confidence. The Finnish economy can rise rapidly if the epidemic is kept so small that people dare to move again. The government, however, is not likely to view it as small enough by its chosen exit strategy, but to open up society inconsistently. It is not trying to suppress the virus, as has been done in many countries, but it is moving forward along the path of its trusted experts, which no one really knows what it is aiming for. We have even heard that the virus has stopped in Finland too quickly. It is not credible when, after such expert statements, the Prime Minister again proves that the Finnish strategy is to protect risk groups. Mr President! True Finns understand that the situation is unprecedented and difficult. We have raised mistakes and called for faster and more effective action to put the virus in place as soon as possible so that we can open up society in a safe and economically sustainable way. While time is marked by uncertainty, it is worth learning to take courageously from the countries that have succeeded best with the virus. Open communication, which honestly tells us what is being done, what is being pursued and why, is necessary. As long as the government and its confidant experts do not respond, or even react correctly, to criticism in its line of action
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u90	Mr President! There was broad agreement on measures to limit the first stage of the crisis. In early March, the President and opposition parties and many experts also proposed, and later the government started implementing the Act on Disease Control and the Act on Preparedness. Finns have complied with the rules, and the fight against the virus has been excellent. The second stage of the crisis is about to begin. This phase will be more difficult than the first. There is a lot of uncertainty and difficult situations ahead of us. There are several paths and options to choose from. There's not one truth. Mr President! That country is able to cope with the smallest mental, health and economic damage that is now the best awakening. Finland is best placed to succeed in Europe. Faraway location, high knowledge, mutual trust and many other factors now also give us an advantage over other countries. It must be used wisely. In the next phase of the crisis, more and more decisions are being taken on policies and management. We must learn from the initial mistakes of the crisis, as the government ministers have said. In a constructive spirit, the Coalition Party will present a few proposals to the Government in order to achieve even better success at a more difficult stage of the crisis. Firstly, the Assembly considers it necessary for the government to have a clear and public plan for opening up society. The whole of society cannot work in the same direction if the plan is not known to everyone. The plan must be written, readable and comprehensive — not just the dates when a measure will be removed. A safe return to everyday life requires, for example, that testing, tracing and isolation are fully prepared when restrictions are lifted. There is now a risk that the means of controlling the epidemic will be delayed and, for example, the use of masks has still not been able to form a position, despite the strong opening up of society. A structured and systematic approach reduces surprises and uncertainty. Mr President! Leading Finland out of the crisis also requires a clearer picture of the situation and a knowledge base. Information must be the same for all actors throughout society. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has had to make a serious remark to the ministries about the shortcomings of the knowledge base and the situation picture in the context of the crisis. A separate study of Parliament's access to information has now been launched. This is also a particularly serious issue for parliamentarianism. The Government relies on the trust of the Parliament. Parliament supervises the functioning of the government, and the information is an integral part of this supervision. Peace in work is of course an important issue, but it is worth noting that the government must enjoy the confidence of Parliament every day, despite exceptional circumstances. There must be a clear minister of responsibility for every matter. If everyone's in charge, no one's in charge. The importance of anticipation of problems will also be emphasised in the next phase of the crisis. That country will succeed, which will be able to handle acute issues at the same time, but also to look at the horizon. Ministers must put their own administration in a position where problems are identified in advance and not only when problems are in their arms. Equally important is the management of society as a whole, not just the management of central government. Solutions will be found more quickly if municipalities, businesses, organisations and ordinary Finns are involved in the search for solutions. New ideas and information are also being developed around the world, and Finland must actively seek these solutions for Finland in every administrative sector. A small but good example is the meeting container introduced by the nursing company — a small but extremely important example. Mr President! Many democratic rule of law is now in an exceptional state. Open societies have not experienced this in a long time. Normal conditions will disappear, and the government will be given the air space and the harsh authority. In these situations, the strength of institutions and the rule of law will be tested. In Finland, the Government has a leadership role in the crisis, but the role of the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee is emphasised. The Assembly considers it particularly important that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' comments be fully implemented in exceptional circumstances. Among other things, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has pointed out support for restaurant companies — it has taken weeks and still has not come. During the crisis, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also made a comment on the fact that the adverse effects of decisions and the wider social impact have not been properly assessed. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u91	Mr President! The daily lives of Finns, working and business life and the services of society have had to be severely restricted in recent weeks. Understandably, people have also had to endure, but the most important one has been successful: Finland as a whole has been less afraid of this scourge. However, the loss of life has not been completely avoided. Every death is extremely tragic. Those close to the dead need our support. Now the restrictions will be lifted. I read somewhere that Finland is following Sweden. Yes, every country has acted in its own way. It is important for Finns to understand that the situation is still serious. Therefore, the most important thing from now on is to take care of people’s health. At the same time, however, Finland must gradually be opened in a responsible manner. Even by accident, the virus must not be released uncontrollably. It is therefore justified that exceptional circumstances continue in the country and that the further regulations of the Emergency Act now before Parliament will be adopted. It has been of considerable value in itself that decisions have been taken in recent weeks by consensus beyond the government-opposition threshold. We still need a common vision and also a common picture of the situation. For its part, the city centre is ready to build this. When dealing with regulations relating to restrictive measures, we have also noticed that our legislation is not fully effective in relation to such pandemics. On the basis of thorough preparation, we need legislative reforms. However, their time is after an acute crisis. Mr President! Needless to say, the damage to the Finnish economy is considerable. That is why society's arrival is also exceptional in scale. The companies in our country still need emergency aid in order to secure people's livelihoods and to minimise bankruptcies and job losses at the end of the day. Today, a solution was reached on the organisation of seasonal labour for agriculture, and it is very important that separate support for restaurants has also been agreed and preparations for general support for businesses are progressing. We also need a common vision that Finland will not emerge from this crisis by taxation. We're not gonna have what we need to tax. Finland will only emerge from this crisis by working and entrepreneurship, and that is why we must also create the conditions for this through structural reforms. The government has done well in crisis management in the big picture — thank you for that. Of course, mistakes have come and there has been a need for corrections, but it is good to remember that even in a surprising and sudden situation, business subsidies have had to be played with the cards that have been available. I am convinced, however, that the subsidies have mainly been targeted as they should be: thousands of companies in different parts of Finland who have been hit hard. In order to keep the epidemic under control and also to rebuild the economy, it is essential that the test is carried out at a low threshold throughout Finland. All potential public, private and research institutions must be mobilised in one way or another. Mr President! When Finland is raised back on its feet, it is not just a matter of economy. It is also a question of Finland remaining an equal and just society. Every effort must be made to prevent a serious health-economic crisis from also leading to widespread participation in this country. The Centre considers it important that the guidelines for the 70-year-olds to remain in quarantine conditions become a recommendation while at the same time emphasising the judgement of those at risk to assess what is wise. It is important for us all to meet our loved ones and to participate in society. A large proportion of those aged 70 or over are well-fitted and active citizens. They want to live a self - like and meaningful life while at the same time taking care of their own health and the health of their loved ones. Mr President! Finns are law-abiding and considerate. Our society is more decentralised and secure than many European countries. We are self-sufficient both in health care and in other critical functions for society. Even Finnish abstinence now seems to be beneficial. That is why one is certain: Finland will turn this wretched virus upside down. It may take some time, but I'm sure we'll get through this and we'll get through it together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u92	Mr President! We have moved on to the situation in Finland, which was introduced in March. In Finland, the growth of the epidemic has stopped and the local rate of infectiveness has been reduced. It is thanks not only to adequate and timely restrictive measures, but also to everyone who has complied with them. With extensive limitation measures, we were able to buy more time to ensure that health care was able to strike. When urgent surgery was stopped, intensive care facilities were multiplied and hospital preparedness increased. The same was done in 2010 during the swine flu pandemic, when I worked as a doctor at the ICU at the Turku University Hospital. A contingency plan was built on the lessons of the previous pandemic in 2012, and Finland started to fight against the corona early in the year. Unlike now, ten years ago, we had a vaccine to help us fight. Mr President! On the day before yesterday, the government outlined the continuation of the interest rate restrictions and chose the so-called hybrid strategy as Finland's exit plan. However, halting the growth of the epidemic does not mean returning to the past or eliminating the danger. The exceptions continue, but it is now possible to move gradually and controlledly from extensive control measures in Finland to intensified epidemic management under the Act on communicable diseases. Preventing the spread of the virus, safeguarding the carrying capacity of health care and, above all, protecting life will continue to be one of the most important tasks of the government. The objective of the hybrid strategy is to ensure that the epidemic is effectively contained in such a way that its disadvantages are minimised in terms of the functioning of people, businesses and society and the implementation of fundamental rights. In practice, a hybrid strategy means strong control of the spread of the virus. The testing capacity will be further increased, the supply chains will be traced, the exposed will be isolated and all affected will be treated. The mobile application, which helps hospital districts track down the transmission chains, is already planned and testing is underway at Vaasa Central Hospital. In addition, there is continuous training of infectious trackers. Mr President! Everyone should understand that while some of the restrictions are now being lifted, avoiding physical contact remains a priority. As Minister Ohio said, we are currently living in a so-called two-metre society. Keeping distance from other people and taking care of the hygiene of hands and coughing can save lives. Restrictions are necessary until a functional and safe vaccine is available for the coronavirus. The essential thing is what kind of restrictions must be maintained at what stage. The activities now announced will continue until the beginning of the summer. The spread of the virus is monitored and the overall picture is constantly revised. Parliament must have the mental and legislative capacity to impose new restrictions and to take further steps if the situation so requires. Transparency in decision-making and measures based on research are now of greater value than ever. Mr President! This pandemic doesn't treat people the same way. It's harder for one to be at home than it is for another. Some have great concern for their own livelihood, some with tremendous fear of their own health or the health of a loved one. Some are already saddened by the passing of their loved ones. We must do everything we can to help those who are hardest hit by this crisis. Mr President! Apart from acute crisis management, we need to be able to look to the future and make decisions about what kind of society we want to build after the interest rate. Instead of returning to the old world, we need to build the future of Finland on a sustainable basis. New work, new prosperity and new prosperity must be created in an ecologically sustainable and socially just way. Climate change has not been reversed and the loss of species or the depletion of natural resources has not disappeared anywhere. With wise decisions, we can not only tackle the corona crisis but also speed up the resolution of the climate crisis. The path to post-corona recovery and recovery from the crisis in society must be carefully chosen on the basis of research and listening to experts. Life goes on in the midst of extraordinary times, but perhaps not as we are accustomed to feeling it. The whole world is facing a new one, and we will get out of this crisis together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u93	Mr President! Koronapandemia is a global crisis, but there have been differences in responses to it. In Finland, extensive restrictive measures were taken early. It's the action that's affecting the bite. The most important thing is that we have internalised our responsibility to protect each other, especially the groups at risk. Finland has succeeded in treating the epidemic in an exemplary way, even though mistakes have been made. The recommendations of experts can also be critically assessed. In a democracy, transparency in decision-making is essential and the background to decisions must be visible to everyone. However, the epidemic will not be combated by screaming votes, and increased politicisation of expertise is a worrying phenomenon. Experts have also had to face completely inappropriate treatment. The Finnish strategy has been balanced and effective. The spread of the virus has been prevented, the carrying capacity of health care has been secured and risk groups have been protected. Corona virus is also subtle because, although it causes life - threatening symptoms to some, others have no symptoms. The fact that Finland is completely safe from the corona virus is not a realistic option. When the limitation measures are phased out, the ability to effectively test, track, isolate and manage is of paramount importance. Mr President! The Government recommends — note recommends — among other things, those over 70 years of age to avoid physical contact where possible. This is a recommendation aimed at protecting those for whom the virus is the most dangerous. Understandably, many people feel that recommendations are heavy and unreasonable. Consideration should be given to how the situation can be made easier, especially for the residents of nursing homes. The right to meet neighbors should also be safeguarded under exceptional circumstances. Mr President! Although the restrictive measures have been bitten, it is difficult to assess the exact effects. From the outset, it has been important to be aware that restrictive measures also have serious human, economic and health implications. In Helsinki, for example, the growth in the need for services is reflected in crisis emergency services. Risk groups include children whose families suffer from substance abuse or mental health problems or violence, as well as children who have difficulties in schooling. The crisis has also created entirely new groups of needers. The situation in health care can also have fatal consequences. Deviation from the time limits for urgent care has already prolonged treatment queues. When the treatment is delayed, the situation may get worse. It is only in the future that we will see what these effects will be and how much care debt will be involved. Given the heavy consequences of these restrictions, it is important that they be dismantled as soon as possible. This must be done in a controlled manner, and the situation must be monitored without delay. Nevertheless, the emergency conditions continue, and the government has issued further regulations on some of the provisions of the Emergency Act. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs will consider whether these criteria are still necessary. For example, derogating from the terms of employment of health care workers is a heavy measure. Nurses who are always working vitally now stretch even harder than normal, and they would earn a better reward in addition to commendation for their work. The possibility of obliging healthcare professionals to work is now being abandoned. Although the obligation to work did not eventually have to be applied, it is good that this heavy interference with fundamental rights is abandoned. Mr President! Thank you to everyone who has kept society running in health care, schools, day care centres, shops, cleaners, factories and other places. Next week, many children will be able to go to school or kindergarten for a long time, meet friends and face vital education and early childhood education professionals in many lives. The situation may also be frightening, but I am extremely grateful to the Finnish school and the educators for having succeeded in doing this too. Mr President! Response to an epidemic shall be based on the best expert knowledge. The Constitution and legislation lay down the conditions for government and public authorities to act. Fortunately, we live in a country where governments do not just anything, but all activities must be governed by law. In addressing fundamental rights, only necessary, proportionate and human rights-respecting solutions are possible. The Constitution must also be adhered to, especially in exceptional circumstances, and Finland must be the rule of law tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u94	Irade the Talman! Vi har inte facit på hand, men vi kan säga det redan nu: På många punkter har coronakrisen skotts mycket vä rär i Finland. För en dryg månad sedan Talades det om att krisen kan leda till att intensivården kollapsar och att över tusen patienter åt gången kan behöva vård i respirator. Som det ser ut i dag kan vi säga att farhågorna inte besannades. De beslutsamma åtgärder som regeringen och ricksdage tog till för över en månad sedan har gett oss andrum, de har gett oss tid. Sjukården har municipalities utvecklas och åtgärderna har bitit så att epidemi förhindrats växa ocontrolerat. Vi har inga vårfester denna vår, men skotseln av krisen så rai långt får trots det ett gott betyg. And, uh, that rentav utmärkt vitsord. Vi har agerat kraftfullt på base av den information som variant tillgänglig.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u95	Mr President! Finns expect the government to carry honest responsibility, especially in crisis situations. Unfortunately, however, during the Korona crisis, Finnish people's confidence in the government's ability to take responsibility for its decisions has been shaken. There is great uncertainty among citizens about what the government is aiming for and what its strategy is. Now we need unambiguous answers: Is it really the government’s goal to create herd protection? Are restrictions relaxed to increase the infectiveness rate? Is the recommended use of masks and the number to be tested intentionally slowed down to increase the level of infection? By means of its measures, the Government is pursuing what is known as the 'new norm'. In practice, this fine expression means that Finnish society will be like a loose hang for a long time. The economy will not recover in this way, and people’s lives will be restricted. Restrictive measures will be relaxed and tightened in turn. In the view of the Christian Democratic Parliament, Finland should not pursue the ‘new norm’, but should seek to get society back to the right norm. This can only be achieved if the objective is to stamp out the corona epidemic. Power therapy and breathing machines help many, but the only sure way to survive the outbreak of the COVID-19 virus is to avoid infection with the virus. The removal of restrictions is considered in a situation where the health care capacity has so far been sufficient in Finland, the provision of medical care has been made and the staff has been trained. The economic impact of restrictions is large, the pressure and the need to dismantle restrictions is severe. The Christian Democrats are not opposed to the controlled dismantling of restrictions, but when they are dismantled other measures are needed to replace them. We are also in favour of the regulations to extend the Act on Preparedness. It is good to remember that the current situation for the spread of COVID-19 is much worse than in March, when we had 387 confirmed cases of disease, compared with 5,600 cases of disease now detected. The risk of infection is now greater than when restrictions were introduced. For the restrictions to be lifted, we need to increase testing and improve personal protection. There are at least four issues in government action which, unfortunately, have been constantly leaked and which need to be changed as a matter of urgency — before the restrictions are lifted. Without it, we will not be able to overcome the disease. Firstly, there is the need to carry out more extensive tests and to facilitate and simplify access to tests. Secondly, tracking and isolation of the supply chains must be achieved by shortening and cutting the supply chains. Thirdly, the use of mouth-nose protection must be made compulsory in public places such as shops, pharmacies, public transport and elsewhere in the vicinity of people. Fourthly, the protection of the elderly must be better achieved, and it goes without saying that there must be adequate protection for those in health care. STM is launching research into the use of masks in public places. It should be ready by midsummer when most of the restrictions are being lifted before then. It is quite inconceivable that this self-evident protection, which has been used for decades in health care and which is widely used in many European countries, is still to be examined. Studies have been carried out in other parts of the world, and even without research, it is clear that the widespread use of masks significantly reduces the transmission of the disease and, according to the studies, has a significant impact on the progression of the disease and its possible second wave. Over 70% of those who died of COVID-19 infection have been elderly. One-half of the deceased have been in primary health care units around the clock and 30 per cent have been in primary health care units. The protection of the elderly must be better. At the same time, consideration must be given to how to safely increase contact with loved ones. The challenges of loneliness, mental health challenges and social interaction between older people must be addressed safely. The government is opening up primary schools and early childhood education first. The opening of schools for two weeks before summer holidays is a cause for great concern. That does not make sense and there are no convincing arguments. Many parents keep their children at home anyway. Teachers as experts in the field must be consulted. Above all, efforts should be made to reach out to those children and young people who need support,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u96	Your Honor, arade talman! So far, the government has been very successful in combating the virus. However, it is now unclear what the government's strategy is. Hetemäe’s papers point to herd protection, but what the government, ministries and officials say suggests is that herd protection is not the goal. The whole plan's a little half-way. Restaurants will be opened half-way — that’s what restaurant entrepreneurs do not understand that there are no restrictions on shops and others. Openness is half-assed. It seems that there are many things that do not have the courage or the ability to choose the line. It is claimed that it is not possible to suppress the disease, but in some countries it has been done. There is now very little disease in many places in Finland: Tampere has just over 100 cases, Turku has just over 100 cases, and South Karelia has almost no cases for a week. I believe that tracking and testing there could have suppressed the disease. Uusimaa should ensure that the disease does not spread to other parts of Finland, and here it should be minimised. Would it be possible to make some decisions that would only apply to Helsinki and the Uusimaa? The Prime Minister has said many times in this Parliament that Finland is well prepared for an epidemic and that we have the best medical care in the world. It is easy to agree with the latter, but the conflict between protective equipment, airport and shipping terminals gives the impression that the disease had not been well prepared. It's obvious. So I ask the Prime Minister: How dare he say what he said? On what specific points did he base his claim that the disease was well prepared? The latest farce concerns the use of masks, which is considered necessary throughout Europe, but not in Finland. There are many studies that make them useful. Is this some kind of question of authority for the ministry that they cannot be introduced but that we should carry out a two-month study on the subject? Many other countries already know that they are certainly useful when used properly, such as in shops and public transport. Why could such a line not be introduced quickly? It's your business to be prepared. The bigger question is what has been done to safeguard the economy since the scale of the crisis was discovered. In Denmark and Sweden, for example, a wide range of forms of support were immediately provided to companies — loans, payment facilities and direct pay subsidies — unlike in Finland. It has taken six weeks to complete the support package alone for restaurants, which took the others a couple of weeks — very special and, above all, destructive. Equally slowly, the government has acted when it comes to timetables for previous aid decisions or changed allocation criteria: nothing has been said about them. A large number of major and minor mistakes have been made in helping businesses. Let me give you an example: you cannot get a grant, for example, from an independent entrepreneur with a large company that uses subcontractors but has not hired people. It does not fit in with the aid criteria. Self-employed people have been left out completely. I hope that this new government package will contain medicines for these issues so that we do not lose many entrepreneurs. Finally, and finally, we have to get a proper aid package for the entrepreneurs. The decisions of the government take far too long. Mr President, ärade talman! Finally, I would like to say that if the government had created a management team involving business people and sole entrepreneurs, many things could have been resolved in the past with regard to business subsidies, as has been done and used in other countries for instruments that provide rapid assistance. Now the government has made the Ely Centre and Business Finland go crazy, and it is the only help that has been given to companies. With the help of the business world, the masquerade problems would certainly have been brought under much quicker control and no such mess would have occurred.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u97	Let us now move on to the replies. Press the V button to ask for them. They will each last for 1 minute at most. This part will begin with a three-minute speech by the Prime Minister on what has just been said.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u98	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, on this question, where is the government's plan: Well, today's resolution of principle, which was adopted, contains a plan of how we are going out of the corona crisis, and it is also possible to obtain it in writing today, once it has been discussed in the Council of State. In my speech, I have just described the essence of it. We will also make a second plan for reconstruction out of the corona crisis, that is to say, we will not be satisfied that we are going through the crisis quickly and giving it a direction, but we will of course also want to see how this major social reconstruction will be done. This package will be on the board of the government after May. Mr Häkkänen also referred to the examination of the Constitutional Committee in relation to Parliament's information. That is the case, and it is an excellent thing that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs carefully evaluates this whole. However, in order to clarify this, I would like to say to the whole public that my view is that it is largely about the information problems that have been being investigated during the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u107	I will now give you the answers in the order that I consider.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u108	Mr President! The opposition appears to be very united in its view that there is no clear strategy for the government, as well as for these masks. I would like to point out to the government, for example, that a fine Finnish innovation has been invented to clean used masks with hydrogen peroxide gas. These protective equipment can be reused up to ten times in a row and even a new safety reserve can be built. I would also point out that there are other options than those to which the Prime Minister has just referred. There are such PM2.5 activated carbon filter filters, which are much cheaper and could be better used by the public, precisely so that these actual shields would then remain there for medical staff and, for example, home care. I would like to mention this to the government: you are doing these studies, which have been mentioned a lot here. Don't make your own investigation. Don't make your own statement about masks or these applications.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u109	Mr President! This corona crisis is not a puzzle in which all the pieces fit in just one way and can thus form a complete picture. There is no single formula or complete solution to this problem. The depravity of this corona virus is precisely that when we move one part it affects another part again and the overall picture is constantly changing. Therefore, hindsight is always the easiest wisdom, as we have heard today. Finns have seen honest responsibility from the government, and the government continues to aim to prevent the spread of the virus in society, to safeguard the carrying capacity of health care and to protect people, especially people from risk groups, and that objective has been clearly heard from the government today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u110	Mr President! With regard to this plan: it is a good thing that, apparently, two have become a written plan. It is good that, after two months, such a thing will be in writing in public. It must, of course, be seen in what form it is and whether it is comprehensive and sufficient. The problem has not only been that the opposition parties do not see what the government's plan for Finland is or that it has not been properly planned, but the problem is that experts in the scientific world and elsewhere have not known it either. I hope this answers that now. With regard to the Act of Preparedness, there have also been some information problems from the Government. As part of this crisis, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will also explain why the Government has not had sufficient information in its own decision-making and in Parliament and has had a poor picture of the situation when decisions have been taken. That is what the Constitutional Committee is about [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u111	Let's stick to the one-minute limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u112	Mr President! We've also had this face mask on display here. It is clear that in many European countries the use of masks appears to be part of the abolition of these restrictions. Now we have heard here that this is not a problem-free matter and is being investigated, but at the same time, many people in the high-risk group and older people are also struggling with how they can safely meet their loved ones. It is extremely important for mental well-being to be able to meet, and then they will also wonder whether part of the solution would be to protect themselves better. We do not have the capacity to make these recommendations, but I would ask Minister Kiuru: could it be appropriate, however, in this situation, for some people to use these on their own, to give guidance on what is a safe and effective way of using these protective equipment if they are used by people?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u113	Mr President! We have a wide range of health and economic experts who understand the importance of the repression of the pandemic, the possibility of it, and who are working towards better opening up society as well. I would like to ask: can their voices also be heard and made a basis for lasting decisions? What about these masks? As part of other activities, the importance of the widespread use of masks for the suppression of the disease and for the reduction of the second wave has already been identified in scientific studies. Our own student of the Family Federation has also been involved in this, and the results and recommendations can be obtained even from us in the documents of the Committee on the Future. Then the chain of infection: we need to get to shortening and cutting the chain of infection. In other words, those exposed will not only be quarantined, but all will also be tested in order to bring out the carriers of the virus from among them and to continue to be traced and quarantined. I would like to ask you: can we do this for the three of us?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u114	Mr President! There is no cure for a critically ill corona patient, so the ICU is trying to keep the patient alive over the worst. The better people learn to live with the risk of corona and by their own actions to prevent its spread, the better Finland will rise from this. Handwashing, observing social distance and staying in quarantine symptomatically are the most important means. The virus does not spread when it is cut off from one person to another. When the restrictions are lifted, the three remain, so wash your hands, stay away from other people, and suffer from all the symptomatic flus at home if you allow. The test capacity has been substantially increased. It is important to trace the infections and quarantine the infectors. Interest-safe ways to do different things are needed. There are already many good practices and innovations. A lot of things changed in March, some of them for good. Paying attention to others, compassion and courage to learn new ways of working
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u115	Mr President! Many municipalities are now playing a crucial role in the implementation of government policies and guidelines. This is the case, for example, in my hometown of Helsinki, which is particularly affected by the pandemic. Perhaps as far as testing and tracing are concerned, there have been 7 people working in the unit in the past and now there are 130, and the answer has been that testing is still quite easy, but tracking is really manual, it takes a lot of time. A lot of people here may not quite understand that. I would have asked the Prime Minister: what kind of interaction does the government now have with large cities, for example, in order to make it as easy and simple as possible to implement government policies and guidelines? The same applies, for example, to major events in Helsinki that have been planned for August, and now we are waiting for what the government's policies are, for example, in that respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u116	Mr President! The government now has a clear plan as to how this infection will be treated, that is, if more infections occur, then measures will be tightened again. When there is a plan, then there should be some sort of meter, at which point these different restrictions will be tightened again: for example, whether restaurants are closed again or something else, school things. What are the gauges the government has because they are not reflected in any plan?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u117	Irade the Talman! It is true that, in all respects, support for entrepreneurs has not been completely successful, and it is clear that one form of support is better suited to the recovery phase and the other to the situation where working capital is needed, but it is wrong to say that the sole entrepreneurs would have been forgotten. They have their own form of support and can also receive unemployment benefit, which is exceptional. When the top of the opposition's criticism is about masks and the fact that it now needs a clear command from the government, for example, to use it itself, one can say that the crisis has been handled quite well if we have the biggest problems here. And in the light of the numbers, the crisis has been handled well, I must say. There have also been lessons learned during the crisis. I am also pleased to say that, for example, the operations at Helsinki Airport are exemplary today, and for that I would like to thank the City of Vantaa and the Finnish Red Cross for that. However, municipalities need support. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: we can be
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u118	Mr President! Two months back, you can say, such an intense phase in the corona crisis, but it has been felt for a very long time because these restrictive measures have been so strong. But it is now that this disease situation has been kept under control in Finland, and now we can move on to a controlled opening-up of society. Many in the opposition have asked whether it is intended to make the disease more spread. I would like to say very clearly that it is not. Furthermore, the strategy is to prevent and slow down risk groups and, in particular, to protect them and to ensure that healthcare capacity is secured, but what is now a change is that these large-scale life-restrictive measures should now move towards more targeted management of this epidemic,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u121	Mr President! During the crisis, there has been a wish from the government parties that the opposition would give the government peace of work, that is, in Finnish, to refrain from criticising the government's actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u125	Mr President! It is quite right that we should seek to open up Finland. It is necessary to mobilise people and start the economy, but it is not just a plan to open it up. You have to make people feel safe, feel afraid to leave home, have the courage to send a child to school, have the courage to go and teach. We need a plan and content, a path to how that 70-year-old gets moving, to leave home, on what schedule, and how to really open those restaurants and so on. A clear strategy is also needed. And, ladies and gentlemen, if you do not like the fact that we are asking what this strategy is, whether we are aiming for herd protection, when this really concerns people, then you should answer, for example, human rights professor Martin Scheinin or Professor Patomäe, who have said that the programme of the Marin government at the moment seems to be seeking herd protection. Because from such authoritative bodies come such things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u126	Mr President! There are nearly 900,000 people in Finland aged 70 and over, and this group is very diverse: there are people in good health, active people, and there are also, of course, people with underlying illnesses whose functional capacity has deteriorated, and then there are people in 24-hour care. But my question is about so-called young people, young people 70 years of age and over. Finns have complied very well with these recommendations, obligations and they have been particularly well respected by these 70-year-olds. And now that I have listened to this and read this Government's decision in principle, I think that the government has come a little more out of the obligation to come here to make recommendations on this matter, and I think that is a good thing overall. I have two questions for the government: First of all, will there be more concrete guidelines for those aged 70 or over? And then, for example, what is your answer to the question of whether 70-year-olds can go?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u127	Mr President! Tells us a lot of good things about the values of our country that the first shutdowns apply to school and the library. We value education and education. Education is a fundamental right of every child. School is much more than that: a safe community for a child. The fact that the explanations and calculations behind the decisions of the government are public and are being investigated by all is also in line with our values and supports the functioning of democracy. Criticism and different conclusions are also welcome. Humanly speaking, it should be possible for sick and nursing homes to meet their loved ones at the top of the list. It is when you are weak and at the end of your life that you need the closest support you can get. It is urgent to find out how safe meetings can be made available to all, for example, with protective equipment in the open air or in the proposed meeting containers. Mr Halla-aho, asylum seekers are in our country and want to work where there are so many factors missing. Why shouldn't they be doing this job? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u128	The Prime Minister and then Minister Kulmuni, who was asked.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u129	Mr President! Once again, the question was raised as to what the government's objective is in the midst of this virus and the crisis it caused. I have said it several times in this Chamber. I have also told you on several occasions that we have organised for all the parliamentary groups, and I will tell you this once again: the government's aim is to prevent the spread of the virus in society, to safeguard the carrying capacity of health care and to protect people from risk groups. This objective has always been the same and will remain so from now on. Representative Halla-aho referred to the work of people in this country. As I recall, you yourself in this Chamber suggested that we should find ways of getting people in Finland, for example, to seasonal work, and we are making progress in this regard. Today we have discussed this package and it has already been made more specific. Mr Honkasalo then asked about cooperation between municipalities, government and municipalities. Of course, every ministry, both the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Education and Culture, has an active discussion with the municipalities about the way in which these restrictive measures are implemented, after they have been managed and phased out, and, in my opinion, there has been a regular dialogue. So here's what I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u130	Mr President! The representative, Mr Adlercreutz, raised the loss of tax revenue in the municipalities and, in general, the way in which the municipalities can be supported in this situation. Indeed, this year's tax deferrals have been compensated and, at the end of this month, when the fourth amending budget is presented to Parliament, there is also this municipal billion, which the government has already announced in the framework of the spending limits, and then the Minister of Local Government will present it in more detail. But as we have heard today, the situation in the medical districts is not as bad as in the part where the situation has been most affected. Then I would like to say to Mrs Halla-aho, who raised this issue of domestic seasonal labour and asylum seekers: I think it is important that we get people out of the field now, because it is a question of domestic food,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u131	Mr President! This government will be pleased to emphasise that decision-making must be based on researched information. Of course, it is a good thing if people living in Finland can work, but, for example, a small percentage of asylum seekers arriving in 2015 have found work so far, even though both those who have received a residence permit and those who are still in the process have the right to go to work. In other words, we should first see whether the problem is that people do not have a work permit, that this prevents them from being employed. And all the signs suggest that this is not the case. Even when these people get a work permit after three or six months of toughness, they do not work in practice. And we seriously and emphatically propose that you try to employ people who have a work permit in the field. There is a very large reserve at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u132	Mr President! In this strategy, it is particularly important to test, trace, isolate, manage that when conditions are released in society, then the epidemic is completely controlled. There are a couple of such legislative needs that should be made more effective in order to succeed. The infectious disease law should of course be made such that it in this kind of extensive pandemic conditions quickly enough allows isolation and follow-up. But then this access to the mobile app for tracking is very important. It seems possible, under Article 23 of the Constitution, to enact a similar law on such matters — when it is not taken into account in the Emergency Act — which would then make it easier, temporarily, even in contrast to some of the fundamental rights, to build such a comprehensive mobile system. I would also like to ask about the readiness to introduce such an unorthodox method quickly, in order to make it effective for tracking and follow-up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u133	Mr President! I would like to continue with what has just been said, namely that, because of the difference between the Hetemäe report and what the government is communicating — and this confuses people, this confuses researchers, human rights experts — it would be extremely important to hear the exact objective of the government, because it is in the air. No matter how you feel about the opinion of the Coalition Party, there are so many other things that worry you. But, Mr President, there is another matter. This policy of Monday's press conference stated that the matter of telework will be back after the summer. I don't think we can go back to it after the summer. I think we should go back to it right away. For society and its economy to start, returning to work is everything. Remote work is good in itself, but the government must create a safe path for people back to work as quickly as possible. You can't leave this to be solved somewhere after the summer. Companies need workers, we have a lot of things that need that physical presence. I think you should take this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u134	Mr President! First of all, this Hetemäe report and the Government's decision in principle: these are two different things. Of course, this report has served as the basis for the Government's decision in principle, but it has been done as a civil servant and has not left the government politically to change any phrases or words from that report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u137	Mr President! When you look at the restrictive measures decided unanimously by Parliament and the government, they have been clearly effective and timely. We should also thank the Finns that, once they have been observed, we will also be able to dismantle some of the restrictions now. It must be remembered that even if restrictive measures are taken for the sake of health, they also undermine human health, and that is why they must be carefully considered. Of course, what is chosen on the basis of expert opinions is the value choices: libraries, schools are exempt from these restrictions. The main concern of Mr Halla-aho, the chairman of the Finns Party, was that asylum seekers would not just be able to work. He first criticised the fact that they had not worked, and then also criticised the fact that they might be working now. Now try to decide which one is bad. If anyone concerns me, this health situation, and especially Minister Kiuru, I would ask: When breast cancer screenings are not performed and otherwise no other diseases are being treated,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u138	Mr President! I am defending the government here in order to enable asylum seekers to go to the fields or to work otherwise. It does not make any sense that if people are here, it will prevent them from working now in this situation when we are in a desperate need of those workers. If, as Mrs Halla-aho said, they do not go to work there again, the situation will not change at present. Then what's the problem? I think the most important thing here is that, now that we are taking these acute measures, some of which are this, that we are also trying to secure an agricultural workforce and give enterprise subsidies to a very large extent, and that we are doing tailor-made support for the restaurant sector and so on, as soon as we get past this acute crisis, we must be able to make a policy that we are creating a broad belief in our business life that there is a future. We have many sectors, such as tourism, which is the first to face the crisis, in a very deep crisis, which often completely stop business. They need to have faith in the future that there is. That's why I was so worried when there was such news,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u139	Representative Essayah and then Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u140	Mr President! It is true that there is much about the virus where neither the government nor the opposition have that final knowledge. It is therefore of the utmost importance that when these restrictive measures are dismantled, then rather be done with a little more caution than too boldness. In all of this, this testing plays a central role, that we know the number of people who carry the disease and the number of people who have fallen ill so that we can see how this epidemic lives at any time. Here I have to say that these messages are constantly coming from the airport, that they are not being tested, and when the social welfare and health ministers here say that people are not going to get tested, someone is going to have a problem. So for some reason now, this instruction to the municipalities has not come through or has been given in some way confusingly, because it continues to say that symptoms are required for several days and that medical referrals are required in order to get there for testing. This problem doesn't work out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u141	Mr President! Let's move on from the overall picture of this epidemic. Our challenge in this Chamber is the same as in the public debate, in the expert debate. We have so many assessments of what kind of preparedness and what kind of response to an epidemic is good. The Government has formed its own line, which is once again here for debate in Parliament. This debate has called for the dismantling of all restrictive measures and then for more moderate positions. Personally, I am very convinced that if all the restrictive measures were lifted, the epidemic would fall out of hand. That seems irresponsible to me, and that is why we cannot think that we are not taking a firm stance here. This Government strategy is precisely based on an assessment of the impact of these measures and is also prepared to correct the policy. In this respect, I think that this is very honest and, in this time, also very smart talk, because this
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u142	Mr. Speaker! The number of hospitalisations and deaths of the Korona virus in the HYKS region is about 80% of all cases. The epidemic is so intensely regional. My question is why this territoriality is not reflected in any government action. Suffocation or defeating these cases would be possible and reasonable while the epidemic is thus regional. If you take the example of New Town and Helsinki, why do New Town have exactly the same restrictions as Helsinki, even though more than 2000 cases have been recorded in Helsinki and zero cases in New Town? So can you now take this territoriality into consideration in all these restrictive measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u143	Mr President! So now the government is planning, quite rightly, the safe opening-up of society, and the coalition agrees: a secure and controlled society must be opened up. But now the question is, are the instruments of control ready? So the testing capacity, the active use of testing so that people get tested, they are offered testing, tracking, mobile application, everything else related to this testing and control, including the use of the mask — whether they are ready when society is opened up, that it does not happen, but that, between now and then, until the instruments of control are ready, the disease will spread back to society and this two-month period of damage to human and mental well-being, but also to the economy will actually be resettled, so we will return to the roots. Has the government made sure that this does not happen?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u144	Mr President! At the outset, we were very much in agreement on the way in which restrictive measures must be taken. Most of the people were in good strength to comply with the restrictions decided upon, and they were obedient. It was then thought that the overall situation would improve faster than it has now seemed. Now the nation’s endurance in isolation, remote work and restrictions on movement is waning. We need to relax the restrictions in order to maintain resilience, for the virus is still wandering among us for a long time. In my opinion, the government has done the right thing in consultation with experts, allowing people to breathe a little more freely. Children and young people get access to school and hobbies, but the lives of older people and special groups also need to be made easier. Because it is easy to be alone, but for a long time, being alone eats us from the inside and leads us to exhaustion. I would also like to thank the government in particular for the fact that all these briefings are:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u145	Mr President! Yes, it really is that you have to ask what the Finnish corona line really is. Has the government’s strategy ‘test,trace,arrange ‘or’topromote a herd of immunity’ been blocked bythe THL’sstrategy? The public is amazed and wondering, schools are about to start, and the parents are sending a message as to whether it is safe to go to school. Yes, this is also a masquerade question. The interest-bearing crisis is actually a mask crisis. I already asked a written question at the beginning of April asking what kind of recommendations you would make about the ministry in relation to masks. You didn't give me anything at the time, but now you're going to report. It will take an unreasonable amount of time, until the end of June. Tell me a little bit about what you're going to tell me in that report. Could you simply say in plain language that you should wear masks? They'll help when there's a lot of public places out there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u147	Mr President! Now that we have come to the conclusion that restrictions are being reduced, it must be done in a tailor-made way, both by region and sector, and in a way that is tailor-made within it, and it requires much more testing and tracing than is currently the case. We would like to see the announcement of what has been planned in this regard. Personally, I would suggest that the guidelines of the National Institute for Health and Welfare on who is being tested and how it is being tracked should now be reviewed and revised. Another target for customization is, in my opinion, schools. I believe that the municipalities should be given the opportunity to decide in a tailor-made way which schools will remain in remote education and which will not be able to apply them. Then there are these over 70s, which is what we have been talking about here: that too should be tailored. Then there is one more advice: Think about these impact assessments. Minister Kiuru just said that every time we do something, if it goes badly, then we cancel — but when it doesn’t feel nice,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u148	Irade the Talman! Yes, you have to believe farmers when they say they have a shortage of employees. Then it is good for the government to take this up and find ways to get people to work for those who are waiting. It is only responsible and reasonable. To Mr Tavio: At the same time, one cannot say that we should be smothered and at the same time say that regionally different measures are needed. One cannot assume that the situation will only be suppressed in New Town, because then We need to isolate the New Town forever.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u151	Representative Huttunen and then Minister Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u152	Mr President! I'm sure the government's decisions have been difficult. As has been said here, people's health has been at stake, on the one hand, the well-being of companies and the economy on the other. If I understood correctly between the lines, then the opposition also received praise from Mr Purra for the fact that we have done well in Finland compared to Sweden and have saved lives. [Department : Yes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u153	Minister Andersson and then Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u154	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here about the need for such regional and targeted tools. When, for example, the education and training world moves away from the application of the Act on Emergency Response, which is indeed such a wide range of municipalities, all schools in the same way a restrictive means, the aim should be that, in the future, this epidemic will be governed by the Act on communicable diseases, which will provide opportunities at municipal and regional level for regional government agencies and also for the competent municipal authorities to take decisions on the closure of schools located in individual schools or in several municipalities, if necessary to manage the epidemic situation. On the other hand, our current basic education law does not allow for such extensive regional consideration at the moment as to how education is organised that it would allow local decision-making where the municipality could decide to organise the entire education at a distance
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u155	Mr President! An important point was made about the CE marking, and it is one of the biggest plugs in Europe as a whole, not just in Finland, with regard to such an EU-ram of protective equipment, and the Commission itself has also taken steps in this regard, i.e. products in the pipeline that apply for the CE marking will be given a different status than this current legislation as such would require, and this is already subject to significant relaxation. However, we are in a situation in Finland where we have not been able to hold onto CE marked products in all respects, and that applies to this domestic production. Even in the first days, it will not have such a legal CE-marked part, but the Commission has now relaxed these positions, and it will give us mobility on this issue. Then there was the question of testing, and I personally agree that this tool should be widely used. Therefore, in order to engage society in this broader test strategy perspective, a major contribution was made on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u156	Mr President! I would have asked where are these seasonal workers now who were subject to a legal amendment in this Chamber in order to get them to work there for agriculture. Have they come there now that they want more? In other words, these legislative changes may not always work. As far as masks are concerned, I would have asked whether this is the case with Article 75 of the Act on communicable diseases. If the standard for masks can be changed, it has not been considered or can it not be done because of EU legislation? Then I ask about the government's objective: Prime Minister Marin, you said that your aim is to prevent the spread of the virus, but this Hetemäe exit report, on the basis of which you have made these further steps out of the restrictions, describes the protection of herd immunity and the spread of the virus. Which one do you follow now?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u157	Mr President, of course the government is following its own decision: to prevent and slow down. Here it was suggested from the opposition that it should be established in advance what the impact of the crackdown on restrictive measures is. There are so many things in this virus that we do not know that it is absolutely impossible. For example, at present in Europe, regardless of what has been the restrictive measures or when the epidemic has started, it would appear that everywhere at the same time this will break. There's still a lot we don't know. I'll take one example. At the time of the lifting of the closure of the U.S. blockade, the opposition was given a statement that the government now decided that the virus should be spread throughout the country. So, what happened? It didn't spread. That is the kind of speech that was made. Among other things, stricter restrictions on assembly were required at that time. Even after, and without, the virus has continued to fall.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u160	Mr President! If the Prime Minister listens, we in the opposition well understand that no one now has the truth or wisdom to control once and for all. Right and wrong, it is a relative question, and in particular it is a relative question because the government has announced a hybrid model, i.e. whatever is done, it can in practice be justified by a hybrid model, because there is nothing right or wrong to mirror. That is why it would be very important for you to state clearly your position, your line of action and, in addition to that, to inform Parliament, that is to say the opposition. It is precisely this lack of information that the Constitutional Committee has drawn attention to, Prime Minister, to the Emergency Act, and the preparedness law has been on the table in this Parliament and in the government this year. The real question is whether you would be able to make a constructive assessment of the fact that we are doing different things in a few different areas. If there's a tiny town with no disease, why do you have to shut down the only diner?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u161	Mr President! Mr Rantanen asked about these seasonal workers and their number and situation. This has been a good cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the STM. First of all, of course, the assessment comes from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and entrepreneurs. Primarily, efforts are made to get domestic people to work in the fields, but some of these foreign, accustomed workers are certainly needed. Now, with regard to these Ukrainians, there has been active contact with the Ukrainian Government and there has now been an assurance from the Deputy Prime Minister that Ukraine is ready to bring such persons to Finland and that flights will be organised on behalf of those entrepreneurs who need them. In this respect, there was a slight delay. On the first flight came 200 people, then came a little break when Ukraine made its own decisions, and now these decisions are in order so that these people can be obtained.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u162	Mr President! In international comparison, Finland has done very well to manage the corona crisis. Now, the next step we are going to, the partial dismantling and refinement of the restrictions, may well be more difficult, but if we also get through this next step well, it may be that our Finnish faith in the ability of Finland as a whole to cope with very difficult situations will grow. If this is to be the case, it is of course a great thing for the future of this country, but we do not yet know. There are a lot of things we don't know about this virus. Researchers also have discussions with each other. It is therefore very important that the information base for decisions taken by the government is public. That is what the government has promised. In particular, I would like clarification on the basis of which THL estimates how many times as many.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u163	I will give the floor to the representatives Halla-aho, Vestman and then the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u164	Mr President! For weeks now, we have heard that from tens of thousands of unemployed people in Finland, they do not have to do seasonal agricultural work, but they need experts from, for example, Ukraine and Vietnam. Now, however, an asylum seeker has just arrived from Iraq or Somalia. Don't you think this is a little funny? [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u165	Mr President! The Korona virus is defined as a common infectious disease in Finland. The same list as the corona includes cholera, typhoid disease and bubonic plague. We have heard repeatedly during the spring that health authorities, THL and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, led by you, Mr Pekonen and Mr Kiuru, want to promote a controversial herd protection strategy. The Hetemäki Group's report, which is now the basis for the government's dismantling measures, states that the objective is controlled but not too strong a slowing down. In other words, they want the disease to spread. The government has repeatedly appealed to law. They said they had to open schools for two weeks because of the law. Well, according to the Act on communicable diseases, state authorities and specialist institutions and municipalities must systematically combat communicable diseases. I ask the Prime Minister: do you consider it acceptable and lawful for Finland's health authorities to want to promote this prevention obligation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u166	Representative Salmon's name was mentioned. One last response to him and then Minister Kiuru and then Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u167	Mr President! I have a different view with Mrs Halla-aho that if an asylum seeker is allowed to work during the application process and is now going to work in this case, then his status will not be turned into a work-related immigrant from it, but he is still an asylum seeker, and if he receives a negative decision after the process, then he must leave the country. I myself think so simply about this that if we have people here in Finland, the better the more of them do the work that benefits Finnish society, regardless of their status. And when we often talk about the problem of having people we do not know where they are — they are not here with legal permission — the problem is that we cannot reach them. If a person is working, we know where he is and he benefits society. I think this is more about attitude than some formal legislation or status. That is the correction for this speech. I think the attitude should be that everyone who works here should be.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u168	Mr President! I would now like you, Mr Vestman, to have a direct answer to your question: No, Mr Kiuru and Mr Pekonen are not seeking herd protection. Under Finnish conditions, that would not even be possible. Under European conditions, there is a constant experts-to-expert debate about whether coronavirus will produce even a herd protection such as herd protection, whether it will produce immunity and, if so, how long and what kind of immunity it will be. In this regard, I find this quite incomprehensible when this government has repeatedly stated that we are not pursuing a herd immunity-type strategy in this country, and now I say to you once again that it is not being pursued. I am pleased that this government has been able, although there are many different groups in this government, to at least agree with what is being sought. As far as your group is concerned, I think it is unfair for Mr Vestman here to seek nothing to be done, and for the same group it has just been sought that distance work should be abandoned and, for the adult population as a whole, to recommend as a government that we go there and get it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u170	Mr President! Mr Häkkänen asked if we had all the equipment ready, and the honest answer is that we do not have all the equipment ready. For example, this mobile application is not ready, it is also a very difficult legislative package, but we are promoting it. We also have a lack of access to protective equipment and protective equipment, and that is why we are doing everything we can to get domestic production going. An honest answer to this: not everything is ready, but we still have to dare to take action, and the government assumes that, as we gradually and controlledly dismantle restrictive measures and continue to actively monitor the impact of this dismantling of restrictive measures, we will be able to gradually open up society. The hybrid strategy – and that is what was also asked here – means that we are moving towards this test, tracking, isolation and management thinking, but at the same time we still have restrictive measures in place and they are being very controlled and gradually dismantled. So it is not either-or-strategy, but both-and-strategy. Then there was the question of this repression. Surely it would be possible for the disease to be eradicated in Finland. We would toughen up the measures, we would take much tougher measures than we have seen now; we could certainly eradicate this disease in Finland. But would it do any good? Finnish citizens always have the right to leave and return to Finland. The disease could then come back to our country. And we also have freight and freight traffic — that is how this disease could come back to our country. I do not believe that it is the will of this Chamber either that we should close society for a very long time, even for years,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u173	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u174	We will now resume the debate on item 6 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. In this context, there will also be a debate on item 7.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u175	Are these three-minute speeches or five?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u176	I think this is a recommendation for fast-paced three-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u177	Mr President! Here the Prime Minister previously presented this Government's decision in principle, which includes a plan to continue the restrictive measures imposed to control the corona virus epidemic and to dismantle it in a controlled and gradual manner. The debate focused on the measures that will be required to open up society. In particular, this recommendation for masks, which could help speed up the opening up of society and the participation of older people, for example. During the debate, the Prime Minister stated that the government has not banned the use of masks, but that everyone can use them at their own discretion. However, it must be noted that the individual masks used in these public spaces are not useful, i.e. their benefits are only realised if they are widely used, because the wearer of the mask does not protect himself, but protects those close to him or people who move in the same premises. Well, the Marin government told me they were going to report this. I personally believe that this difficulty in wearing masks has been exaggerated. The masks and their use are not rocket science. If the facial masks or scarves of domestic nurses are sufficient to protect the elderly, why on earth would they not also protect themselves in other social situations? There is plenty of research evidence and international experience, and I think that Finns are no more stupid than Germans or Belgians, for example, to learn how to wear facial masks. So I do not think it is necessary to examine separately for Finns whether they are able to learn the correct use of facial masks. I think that, especially for those over 70 years of age, they have started to get more and more sad messages about the gloomy outlook when there is a feeling that there is no end to special recommendations — this protective mask policy, combined, of course, with safety limits and good hygiene, could also enable them to become more involved in society's activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u178	Mr President! Finland introduced the Emergency Act in March, and the purpose of the Act is to protect the population in exceptional circumstances, and the Emergency Act restricts people's lives in a very exceptional way. I remember that on 17 March, among other things, Martin Schein criticised these grounds for exceptional circumstances referred to by the government in its own explanatory memorandum and stated that they would not have been fulfilled and stated: ‘The exemption law is only used in exceptional circumstances. It is therefore essential that it be used only when exceptional circumstances are at hand.’ And he said at the time: ‘For the sake of certainty, there is already a crisis mandate to which the present situation does not confer a right. This is a matter of illegality and non-constitutionalism.’ Mr Schein said that the temptation might have been to introduce powers for which there are no grounds yet. He felt that in March we should have taken it step by step and first resorted to smaller powers. Even now, perhaps a little self-concerned, is there a situation in which, as a matter of certainty, these contingency laws and emergency conditions are left in force in this situation? Is our situation such that we would not be able to cope, for example, with the restrictions provided for by the Act on communicable diseases, when it is the vast majority of those who are currently in use? I think that this is something that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should consider carefully. I might ask, for example, why it is necessary to keep cafés and lunches closed for the whole of May, for example, in a municipality where there has been little or no infection in recent times or, in fact, during the whole epidemic. After all, we are talking about a serious restriction of fundamental rights, freedom of trade and the protection of property. After all, in the case of the liquidation of Uusimaa, the government justified it with a specific legal perspective and stated that there was no alternative but to open it up. Now you may well ask: in what way is the situation different from these cafés and restaurants, whose constitutional freedom of business and property protection are severely violated? Mr Räsänen raised the issue of the over 70-year-olds, and I personally believe that it is necessary to review their situation. Is it that we now protect these 70 - year - olds and isolate them in their own home under almost prison - like conditions and cause them much more pain and difficulty? I personally believe that in such a society where we live, we, as a society, could be more flexible towards these elderly people and offer them opportunities for greater participation in society's life. For example, now that the church is opening services, I received a distressed message from a slightly older lady that yes, the services begin, but we older people are not allowed to go there. Yes, we have to go, and I think that we in society need to give these elderly people, for example, room for access to the church, but also for shops, pharmacy and such situations, without having to dodge those younger than us there. I hope that society will take such a slightly more neighborly hold on these elderly people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u179	Mr President! I was left unclear whether this was 3 minutes or 5 when Mr Heinonen spoke 4 minutes for 30 seconds. So this is five minutes? [PresidentMattiVanhanen :Yes, it was prolonged3. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u182	To make it clear, the subject of this debate covers the wide range of issues raised by the Prime Minister in his presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u183	Mr President! Indeed, killing the epidemic is the most important thing, but while we are now discussing the extension of the competences of the Emergency Act, we are talking very extensively about issues related to Finnish society, such as restrictions on the fundamental rights of citizens. As has previously been discussed here in connection with the closure of Uusimaa, when the blockade was launched and when it was decided, it was stated that moving and moving people from one place to another is a constitutional right. As far as basic education is concerned, when we consider how the situation is to be continued, we have also considered how, from the point of view of fundamental rights, this kind of distance education works in itself from the point of view of compulsory education. Mr President! One element is the exercise of legitimate livelihoods, and now, in order to curb this epidemic, we have closed the restaurants and, in that respect, we have intervened in the freedom to conduct a business. During the day, the Prime Minister stated in his opening speech that restaurants will be opened gradually and in a controlled manner from 1 June. That was an extremely important line. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that, when these laws relating to restaurants were passed, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, too, clearly stated that, if the epidemic so allowed, these restrictions could also be lifted on a regional basis. This is something that came to my mind when I looked at these epidemic statistics, for example, in the North: in the three sub-regions of the North, individual infections within two to three weeks. And when considering the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, the opinion of the Economic Committee that ‘in the context of an epidemic’,I would send a very strong point of view to the Constitutional Committee,it could be Of course, the Constitutional Committee will then consider the details carefully, but if it were ever the time for Parliament's will to take account of regional restrictions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u184	Mr President! The government has received the support of citizens and businesses in the management of the corona pandemic by partially requesting and prescribing. But trust must be redeemed. The problem with the government is not the lack of good intentions, theories, studies, plans or even money. The problem with the government is implementation. The so-called plans and guidelines drawn up by independent experts go wrong at the stage of implementation because they do not face reality, whether they are testing, protecting, opening schools or dealing with the economic crisis in companies. The opening of schools is on the way to a major risk-taking. The future of children and young people would not fall into two extra weeks at home, but they could save the lives of many loved ones. Time and again, attempts to save companies affected by interest seem to go wrong. In corporate subsidies, explosive departures were taken when the selected wrong tool went into the lap, and the situation has not been corrected as it should be. Support for businesses is now in a hurry and there is no room for new screwups. Therefore, the information in the media about the new general support for companies raises the hair. Information about fixed costs, such as rents, which are mechanically taken into account in the aid, is said to be available from the tax authority. Mr Government, the tax authority does not have a glass ball in which it can see the firm costs of the company. The Incomes Register, VAT accounts, tax returns or financial statements do not show them. Only the company itself knows its fixed costs. If the preparatory ministers are now dependent on such a belief, I would recommend discussing with someone who has real experience in the personal management of business accounting. The only sensible form of support is to compensate for the loss of sales due to the interest rate and to allow the company to spend the money it needs to survive, excluding, of course, the distribution of profits. This support must now be successful on the first and soon. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u185	Mr President! This new government strategy should, of course, be renamed differently. Instead of scaring the public with the hybrid strategy term, we should prefer to talk about what is at stake: keeping the epidemic and the pandemic under strict control, limiting it and reducing to a minimum both health, social and economic damage. In this respect, the information that comes to the citizens is also important. In this debate, reference has been made to this report by the THL and, in part, by the Hetemäe Group, that there is undeniably some conflicting material in the ranks and between the lines as to whether there is such a herd-protection approach behind it and then slips into some texts. It would certainly be high time that these texts were revised so that they would not conflict with a consistent and clear policy of the government itself. It is also important to use expertise as widely as possible. As has been said for a long time now, we do not know this behavior of the COVID-19 corona virus, too much of it is still covered in grey and black. Then we must not overly believe in one expert mind on the basis of a certain authority, but let all the information influence the fact that we will then find the most reliable and correct information on the basis of which decisions are taken. This same debate, which I have followed, has taken place in all countries when these strategies for combating have been put in place, but in our own tradition, as a country with a broad principle of publicity, especially in Finland and the Nordic countries, it is a matter of giving flowers of all knowledge and then making as wise and rational and analytical solutions as possible by politicians. Now we need a more differentiated follow-up strategy, and now in this new government strategy we have laid the ground lines, but we need much more concrete, more differentiated decision-making. In fact, reference has been made to where this differentiation is needed: more sectoral recommendations, solutions are needed. In part, there is also a need to prepare sector-specific ad hoc legislation, such as those in the restaurant sector since 1.6. After, and then there is also the need for this regional differentiation. There is already the basis of legislation, for example, in this restaurant law, a separate law. They have listed these measures by region, which, in a sense, can also, in a way, also be properly defined in the regional context. Reference was made to the Constitutional Committee. Of course, the problem is that it cannot push a string: the Constitutional Committee only deals with proposals from the government and cannot give instructions on what else to do or what else to do. But, of course, Parliament as a whole has these political instruments, which can set out wishes and obligations towards the government for the most correct and effective follow-up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u186	Mr President! The Prime Minister's report today was clear, he described that the government is well in control of the situation and that all the complex basic arrangements for the corona virus can be managed. I was surprised by what Mrs Rante said just now about the failure of the implementation. When you look at these international comparisons, Finland is constantly referred to as a country that may have been the most effective and best able to take the right measures. Restrictive measures have been timely, perhaps even a little premature, and now they are also doing the right thing. The statistics are interesting in that the mortality rate in Finland is the lowest in relation to the total population among European countries compared to the international level, and, in addition to these statistics, it is clear that the government's approach has been the right one when these risk groups have been recognised. This is a truly elderly disease, as is the case with infectious diseases in general, but this is particularly so. 84 years is the median mortality age in Finland for the approximately 250 deaths currently in Finland. If you look at the distribution even more precisely, 70% of those who have died of this disease are over 80 years old, 15% are 70-79 years old and the rest, the other 15%, then under 70 years old. It is a genuine disease for people over 80 years of age, but it also affects this age group of 70. Now, however, we are in a situation where this disease is not controlled in such a way that it will remain among us. We are not going to get away with this all together, and it is important now that these restrictive measures are taken consciously and in a controlled manner, and we also come to the point where we need to distinguish more precisely this category of so-called risk groups for the elderly. We have a lot of people over 70 years old, 70 to 80 years old, who are in good health, and now this kind of return of normal life should be possible: encountering people, of course, moving, outdoors in particular — it is not even forbidden, but rather recommended to maintain it. When statistics are currently going through and thinking about regional segregation, we have about 3,500 neo - natives who have been infected with this disease. If it were told by ten or so in order to get the real number of infected, it would be at 35,000. This means that 2% of neo-Americans would be infected by this calculation, 98% would not have been affected by this disease. This is among us, and we must gradually strive for the development of society, especially these elderly people, to be taken into account so that they can get to the beginning of almost normal life, while complying with those hygiene and other regulations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u187	Mr President! Our common task is to build a society of trust. It is important that citizens also have a strong sense of security in the face of exceptional circumstances — that they dare to go out, shop, dare to let the children go to school and kindergarten. We open Finland gradually, deliberately and gradually towards the summer. The regulations of the Emergency Act, which have been extended by the government, have been made in the light of the current disease situation. They will now come to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for an ex-post review. Regulations continue to restrict our fundamental rights in order to protect groups at risk and to ensure the capacity of intensive care. Restrictions must continue to be necessary and proportionate. It is important that the work of the Constitutional Committee should not be politicised, but that a legal, constitutional and human rights review be carried out that is independent of party politics. This, too, contributes to increasing public confidence and the sense of security. Mr President! We are dealing with a serious illness that we test, track, isolate and treat. Some 250 people have died in Finland because of the corona. Losing a loved one is always a painful thing. Many homes now have grief. Of course, there are other serious diseases that die from, and they must also be able to be treated. Mr President! There is no reason to sow corona fear or hysteria. This uncertainty and fear also indicate that all the dismantlings of restrictive measures appear to have a strong emotional response. If we look for the culprits and errors, the controlled and gradual dismantling of the restrictive measures will not proceed in the desired way. Nurses and authorities have done their best — thanks to them. For example, if we blame carers and nursing homes for the deaths of elderly people, it can lead to a certain interpretation of the instructions and prevent and slow down the safe organisation of meetings with elderly people or the implementation of hospice care that respects the patient and family.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u188	Mr President! From the point of view of security of supply, I have been thinking about this corona crisis and the lifting of these restrictions, and I would like to make a few points about it. Even today, the news from MTV has reported that opening schools can have catastrophic effects: children would spread the corona virus even asymptomaticly. This kind of news when you read it, it certainly makes people think a lot about what's important here and what's the government's line, and a lot of parents are probably nervous about this situation to put the kids in school. I am a little concerned about this, especially when there have been numerous contacts from people in primary production — not so much from the horticultural side but from animal production, i.e. milk producers and pig producers. They have field work at the moment, some of which may have been done in Southern Finland, but there is now a very important time to get this year's harvest and succeed. To put it bluntly, they are a little nervous about this situation: whether they can put their children in school with a safe mind, or whether it is possible for the child to bring this virus home from there, and whether it is possible for the master or host of the house, whatever the space is now taking care of it, to get sick here, which will take away the field work. It would have been great if there had been a minister there, but in some way it would have been good to send a clear message to the parents about the conditions under which the child can stay away so that there is no need to draw a lottery or to take the child to school or put it on the road. There are other areas that are important for security of supply: energy transport and certainly numerous other professions, where such parental concern on this issue may be at stake. In my opinion, it would have been good to continue to offer the possibility that the child could continue in distance education. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u189	Mr President! Today we heard the happy news: the Prime Minister told us that the spread of the virus has been controlled. When the situation is under control, it should mean that all the transmission chains are well known and there is real - time knowledge of the state of the epidemic up to the day. Most importantly, if the situation is under control, the chances of surprises are very low. Otherwise, the situation is out of control. I hope that the wrong situation picture will not be fomented to get political points. Mr President! Schools start in a week. That's what the government decided. However, groups of more than ten persons have been recommended to be banned until 1 June. I'm sure this will create conflicting situations in your everyday life. I would therefore like to see some clarification of these regulations, which have been laudably followed by Finns. I wonder how the government imagines schools setting up safe spaces when, under normal circumstances, they don't want to get one school bully in check. Good speeches have been made in this Chamber today. Here, when the minister had said happy greetings, the members of the government parties expressly stressed that the government’s line is to prevent and slow down the progression of the virus in Finland — to prevent and slow down. At the same time, however, the government is jamming tens of thousands of children into minivans and minibuses in school transport, where the disease is bound to spread if and when it is still there. Personally, I think that being responsible and being honest with the situation would be the best way to move forward, and I think that politicians should look at... Of course, there must not be any incitement here, but this kind of government debate, which I listened to in that initial debate, is that, on the one hand, when it is said that we are preventing and slowing down and, on the other hand, we are defeating the schoolchildren... We all know that transport in rural areas is mostly carried out by minibuses, and when, for example, 10 children are picked up in remote villages and 12 can be accommodated in the bus, there is a rather tight atmosphere. This pattern does not work in practice, however beautifully it is said in the ministerial box to ensure that the security gap is maintained. Mr President! I hope that the government will pay attention to these issues, and I certainly hope that this opening up of schools will not bring what many experts fear. Health, everyone!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u190	Mr President! During the day, listening to the debate in that room, I was surprised when it was claimed that the government did not have the confidence of the people. Even parliamentary research has wondered about the government’s high support figures in such exceptional times. But for this actual conversation. I think the government has done well so far. That's what I think. In Finland, the growth of the corona epidemic has been brought to a halt by restrictive measures, and people in everyday life have followed this guidance quite well. There are currently several provinces where there has been no infection for more than a week. When I looked at the figures of the last 24 hours, I think it's between 80 and 90 percent of the infections in the capital region, Uusimaa. This is the situation, and now, when these restrictions are lifted — too bad that the ministers are not here — the question arises, both in terms of public events, hobbies and then instructions from restaurants, in the direction of the ministries, whether it gives any kind of glare to local avenues to interpret the situation in the region. In my opinion, it should be possible for regional government agencies to have a degree of flexibility with regard to these security regulations and implementation. With regard to these measures, I am particularly pleased that, at the same time as schools are opened up, so will the activities of children and clubs, both in terms of physical activity and culture, and then in the beginning of June, competition. This is extremely important for the many organizations and associations that run this activity. Perhaps the biggest question mark will be when the main football and baseball series begin, how they can then economically pass through the season. It may be that there will then be a rescue operation in the autumn if these audiences are not addressed in the middle of the summer for public events. Let's hope I'm wrong. Well, most of all in this Chamber has spoken since this position and everyday life of the elderly. It is quite human when the restrictions are still in place for them. It is a great thing that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is now considering the measures to be taken in order to reduce these under certain conditions. It would be extremely important for those who fully follow this guidance. There is no one tied up in the walls and it has been possible to move, but the Finns are a obedient people and they follow them. Of course, you have to remember that the picture of the disease has not changed for the elderly when you think about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u191	Mr President! There has been a debate here about the possibility for people over 70 to participate in society. In his speech, Congressman Heinonen raised the question of the possibility of attending church services, and these questions have also come to me today. I therefore hope that the organisers and parishes of various cultural events will take into account these people over 70 and other at-risk groups who have followed these recommendations nicely up to now, and, for example, will organise separate events, separate services for these people, in a way that is similar to the shops in the morning, when the business is still at its peak, the possibility of dealing with risk groups before other customers. But it is quite remarkable — and there is also a lot of feedback about it — that, at the same time as these people over 70 and at risk are protected by strong quarantine recommendations, then, on the other hand, those at risk, such as health workers or now teachers, do not feel that protection or access to tasks that could not be exposed to coronavirus. For example, according to the Medical Association report, only half of the doctors at risk had access to less risky tasks, i.e. doctors at risk over the age of 60 have also had to treat corona patients. Similarly, today I have been contacted by teachers from high-risk groups over the age of 60, whose spouses may also belong to a high-risk group. They have tried, for example, to get unpaid leave of absence for these two weeks, but this has not been successful. Some people have wondered what magical limit it takes between 60 and 70 years to protect 70-year-olds with such strong measures and, on the other hand, to protect those who are almost 70 years old, even if they specifically ask for it and try to apply for unpaid leave of absence. It is important that citizens feel that these measures are fair and justified, and it is therefore important that they are discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u192	Mr President! During this corona epidemic, mathematics, statistics and epidemiology have experienced an actual Renaissance, and here too I would like to start by saying a few key issues. Five weeks ago an average of 80 patients were treated in intensive care units in Finland due to corona infection. Four weeks ago, that is, when we come here to the present, the 80 had fallen to 74, the next week it was 62, last week it was 51, and at the moment, when this week is not even halfway there, it starts at four, 44 was today's knowledge. In the light of these figures, there has been a positive turn of events. On the other hand, a second series of chapters can then be identified. We have tests today for 110,000 Finns. That's 2% of our total population. That is the same proportion as Germany was two weeks ago, then they had taken a test on 2% of their total population, and in my opinion, quite sensible measures have been taken in Germany in the first place. In the last week, 667 new infections occurred. So even though we have tested more, now we find a rather moderate amount, but this tells us exactly what has been said here, that this epidemic in no way over is of course, even though it has these aspects of control. Mr Eskelinen and others have referred to these regional differences. I calculated it so that I took the two medical districts with the most infections, the great Uusimaa and the small Western North, from the 20 medical districts of our country. By counting their infections together and comparing their common population, there are 224 infections per 100,000 inhabitants. The total of the rest of Finland is 39. So this is more than five times the difference, which means that we do have very different situations, as has been mentioned here. The mortality rate so far has been 252 persons, which is 4.5 per 100,000 inhabitants. Now that we have talked about this government strategy, I think there have been some semantic features in that review. I would say that what is more than repression, that we are trying to test, test more, that is to say, look for infections, and then, when we do, arrange for it to be isolated, then track down those contacts and yet quarantine them and test them. That's exactly what repression is. But when it comes to hybrids, the two-way strategy, these restrictions go hand in hand, and these restrictions are things that clearly share opinions. It has also been said in this Chamber a moment ago that more restaurants should be open, on the other hand, it has been critical that schools are now being opened up. So this hybrid, which is probably not a good word, is a two-way strategy. Restrictions on patience and then more and more testing and isolation. This is the strategy that is summed up in some language.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u193	Mr President! The government has adopted regulations to extend some of the powers of the Emergency Act, but some of the restrictions that have been made for the corona will end next week, and it is expected that the number of infections will turn up again. For this purpose, I believe that stronger research data on the corona infections or infectivity of children, for example, would have been needed. That's not exactly what the world has yet. Mr President! The investigation of vaccines and medicinal products is progressing rapidly, but, pending the vaccine, efforts must be made to stop the epidemic by more traditional means. The model can be shown to us, among other things, about the size of New Zealand, which has announced that it has managed to control the disease with severe restrictions. Its example shows that it is possible to suppress the disease, even though other things have been said publicly. According to recent information, ten Finnish scientists are also going to appeal for repression next week, and I hope that the government will listen to them genuinely. Suppression of the epidemic would be good for both health and the economy. Economist Sanna Kurronen of the business delegation has stated that Finland should make the epidemic as small as possible and keep it low so that we can start to return to normal in the summer. This is a very understandable viewpoint, for if domestic consumption is to be accelerated, people must first feel safe. Mr President! Reference was made here to these regional differences. It is clear, therefore, that the disease situation is clearly the worst in the capital region, where as many as 60% of the population of just over a million people have been affected, i.e. in proportion to the population in Uusimaa there have been about six times as many infections as in the rest of the country. On the other hand, according to the preliminary results of the THL antibody study, even in Uusimaa there are very few immunocompromised subjects and it is a strong sign that the number of hidden infections is not very high. Therefore, the restrictive measures should not be lifted rashly or rashly, especially in the areas most affected by the interest rate. Rather, I believe that more stringent restrictive measures would be needed, particularly in the capital region. It is also advisable to use masks in general at the latest when domestic production has been properly started. Mr President! There has also been reference to this herd protection ideology. Unfortunately, according to many experts, the guidelines of the Hetemäe Group, which helped the government, have been inconsistent in this respect. Scientists in ecology and evolution biology, among other things, Thomas In addition, Dr. Ville Holmberg believes that an unspeakable strategy in the report would be to seek protection for the herd. I also read through that report myself and could not really escape the impression that this herd shelter was not there as some kind of starting point. However, we must strive to avoid this serious disease, which is particularly fatal for many elderly people, for as many Finns as possible. Mr President! I regret that the speaking time has been exceeded, but in conclusion, protecting the spirit and health of Finns would be a sustainable and morally correct approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u194	Mr President! The elderly lady called me and hoped that she would be able to get to her wife, who was mentally ill, so that a familiar voice would bring security. It can't be the end of our marriage like this, he asked. There's been a lot of talk here about the elderly. Mr Räsänen suggested that events be organised separately for risk groups — certainly a good idea to apply. It has also been suggested that for 70-year-olds, a grouping could be made according to the type of living or functional capacity in order to make situations different. These preparedness regulations apply to older people, in particular with regard to the time limits for non-emergency care in the case of flexibility. In order to ensure adequate staffing and training, this urgent treatment has also been driven down, even though there have been no infections in the area. Of course, the situation varies across Finland, as Mr Lindén described very clearly above. In the light of previous scenarios, some pretty consistent instructions were given throughout Finland, and this guidance probably caused this rush-free treatment to be stopped. This will affect the elderly, who have either been afraid to go to treatment, have withdrawn their treatments or would not have been able to get there. Gradually, when more information has been received, it has also begun to think more regionally, which is a good thing. For example, in the distribution of material, the regions have been properly taken into account and cross-border cooperation between hospitals has also begun. All this is a good development that we can also use in future crises. We can't live in a corona bubble. We need to learn to live with the corona. That is why it is important that we also encourage people to go to the hospital when they need it. It has been said in the north that preparing for corona has been more expensive than treating corona patients. In everything it is important to work together, to blow together, and also to consider the elderly and all their illnesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u195	Mr President! As has often been said, the virus is new, the treatments are only developing, the vaccine research still requires a lot of effort and cooperation between the international community before it is accessible to all. In the meantime, the strategy is to smother the corona to the ground where it seeks to rise. Test, track, isolate and manage is the policy chosen by the government. If the tracking is successful, new infections will not spread widely, the infection rate will remain low, the number of people affected and the number of deaths will be reduced. In addition to the prevention of infection, which has already been talked about a great deal for weeks, rapid tracking is a key element in the success of this strategy. This may mean application, but also rapid, effective action in the care of the municipality and health customers and in contact and testing of exposed persons. The price of the closures decided so far is estimated at 5 billion per month. What impact will such figures have on the functioning of our welfare society as the situation persists? What about the effects of blocking measures on people’s health and well-being, on the growth of unsolicited waiting lists, on the growth of queues for dental care? We have heard about mental health services about people's deeper anxiety, children who cannot be reached from schools, entrepreneurs' concern about losing their jobs and livelihoods. Everyone understands that a perfect solution and balance in terms of restrictions may be impossible mathematically to calculate. Just a few more words about the status of nursing homes, those in the hospital, prisoners and those detained. A lot of people here have already talked about the importance of this meeting. It is when you are weak that you most need your neighbor’s support. There is no point in meeting a dying loved one only when entering the hospice phase, often in a situation where one is no longer able to speak. And what is possibly the wish of the elderly for the past few months? Yes, it is urgent to find out how meetings are possible for all willing ones, such as outdoors. These container solutions are also good proposals, but they should then be made possible for all those who need them. It is a good thing that restrictions are dismantled piece by piece, so that the effects can hopefully be monitored and, if necessary, reacted to. I welcome the opening opportunities of the summer. It is important for children to maintain social contacts with friends and, for example, to engage in outdoor groups. In addition to an outdoor jogging, there is a welcome variety for all of us, for example, an open air exhibition, a summer theatre performance or a terrace meal, and there is certainly a demand for most of these, as domestic tourism wedges into the top of the holiday list. Reasonable and cautious about the corona is not the same thing as inactive. This applies both to the government and to those over 70 years of age who avoid the risk of infection. At least the accumulated need for service and capacity in our health care, but possibly also the risk of the disease, can help us by taking care of our health. Move, crash someone's flower beds, find a cultural form that refreshes, keep in touch with loved ones. Finns and also Finnish municipalities have always been proud of their own ability to act and their own initiative — they stick to it. For everything we don't need government instructions or orders. And on the mask: I hope we can also count on the international and existing reports that have been made and thus avoid months of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u196	Mr President! I'll continue with security of supply. When I was in the United Nations, I learned that if a system has been built for years and someone suddenly wants to change it, it will produce a catastrophic outcome. For about 30 years, Finland has built or built such a system, where seasonal work is very much dependent on Ukrainian workers, and now the interest was caused by the suspicion that they could not be brought here at all. Our chairman offered an alternative to hiring laid-off persons there without losing their unemployment benefit. It was an option. It was interpreted in such a way that it does not allow this foreign seasonal labour force. So we have about 16,000 seasonal workers each year. Now, by decision of the authorities, I think by the government, it has been limited first to 1500. Today we have a new opening, that there will be more of them, either 1500 or 3,000, I don't know, depending on the news. However, this is of such importance in terms of security of supply. Although I regard that as a whole, it is too built on foreign labour. It is a bad situation, but now there is such a need for the horticultural and berry farms to have the workforce they have had there now, they know that, and I think that this situation should be reacted quickly. This is one of the things that must be sought over the years so that we are not dependent on foreign seasonal work. Then there has been talk here today that the paperless people in our country, or what they are called — asylum seekers and others — will be given a work permit. I hear entrepreneurs are demanding employees there. I have been talking to the gardeners, and I can tell you this: there is no cure for this job at all. Cultural differences are so great that people who come to work there cannot take instructions from someone who is called a woman, for example. So now this is something that the government should pay attention to, that this matter can be fixed so that the harvest in Finland can be harvested and that no one needs to starve next winter. There is a risk that the crop will be ruined. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u197	Mr President! In this debate, Mr Koskinen spoke in which he criticised this term as a hybrid strategy, which was also used by the Prime Minister in his speech. I myself think that this term has failed and bewildering, because the hybrid strategy literally means that two different objectives, two different objectives pursued, are being combined, and this hybrid strategy has been interpreted as a sort of combination of herd protection thinking and repression of the epidemic. If that term were only to mean that this epidemic is being tackled and specifically targetedly through this test, trace, isolate, manage, then it would not be necessary to have such a term as a hybrid strategy, which specifically combines different objectives. [Aki Lindén’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u198	Mr President! In this debate we have actually called for a continuation of the preparedness regulations for schools. They are not involved in this government proposal. Since there was no longer a need to keep schools closed in accordance with the Act on Preparedness, the Constitution provided for a return to normal conditions in which to act on the basis of the Act on communicable diseases and the Basic Education Act. A gradual transition was not possible for legal reasons. The Basic Education Act guarantees a subjective right to contact teaching for all pupils. The magnificent Finnish basic expenses were flexibly transferred to remote education and were successful in all of this. It also taught us a lot. I believe and trust that the return will also take place just as well when we take care of the safety of students and teachers. Making common sense decisions according to the circumstances. With their own responsible work, their share of society as employees and bearers of responsibility, the school’s people enable Finland to survive from now on and the crisis does not go far into the autumn. Authorities say it's safe to go back to school. Education is a fundamental right of a child in Finland, and we are proud of it. The fundamental rights of children cannot be restricted beyond what is necessary. This is also in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. We're going back to contact education with a richer experience. Many teachers have acquired new skills, and students have also learned to use new platforms. Companies donated machines to schools. School isn't what it used to be. These coming weeks must be arranged in a controlled and flexible manner, as is the case with distance learning. I am sure that the authorities will refine their instructions for the coming weeks. Surely many children have looked forward to being with friends and teachers. Let the families breathe for a while. Children at risk of falling are picked up. This requires professional cooperation. I hope that children’s hobby activities will also return for the summer and, at the same time, we can practice possible application and different practices for the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u199	Mr President! Mr Mäenpää must be told that I do have the exact opposite information from both employers and employed asylum seekers. At least from the construction site, gardening and nursing homes I have heard very positive feedback about how the work has been learned, how the attitude to work has been good and how these workers have really been needed there. There have been no Finnish hand pairs, and there has been a need for labour, and these asylum seekers have been highly motivated workers and have also learned the Finnish language when working there. Our current toughness practices are really weak and bad. First, three or six months of qualifying when you enter the country, depending on whether you have an identity card or not, then you get a right to work. If you get a negative decision and it's wrongfully made and you complain about it, you'll start a new temper. There may be an ongoing employment relationship that will be re-occurred for a three-month or six-month break. There is no point, neither for the employer nor for the asylum seeker, nor for the society which then has to pay the subsidy when one loses his salary for the work he has done. This is going to be a lot of feedback from employers. They have good employees who they may have already trained, trained, and with this repeated temper they will then have to be dumped out of work. This needs to change more than just now with regard to field work for summertime. On the school side, even in the event of war and crisis, international organisations are seeking to secure the right to education and the right to attend school within the first month of the start of the crisis. It is a fundamental right of a child, and that school is more than just education. It's a community that creates a child's safety. There are safe adults there. The teacher's work is teaching, and the feeling of how well the teachers have grasped the means of distance teaching, and indeed, as Mr Kinnunen said, must have learned a lot of things that will remain in that teaching and then, if necessary, in the autumn, can be reinstated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u200	Mr President! I do not participate in this aspect of immigration in this debate, but I have also taken the floor to say as clearly as possible that this hybrid strategy — of which the name, because it is an alien word, can be critical — means, as I said myself, that we are simultaneously using two means, the first of which is this ‘test,trace,run’ strategy. In other words, the government does not believe that every effort should be made to suppress it, as I have just described. But in addition to that, because it is not enough alone, we use these general restrictions that we have had dozens of: population, how much we can have together, closing large events, schools, restaurants. It is the second part of this dual strategy, this hybrid strategy. It is quite wrong to say that the second part would be someone seeking protection from the herd. I don’t understand that it’s being claimed all the time and trying to get this kind of political tension or some political points, or whatever it’s aiming for. Now I have probably said this clearly enough here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-06-ps-67.u201	Mr President! I could say to Mr Kinnus that the Basic Education Act also guarantees a safe learning environment, and we will see only afterwards whether it was a safe learning environment, whether it spread the corona there. I can tell Mr Hopsu that I have heard the opposite of what you have heard again, and one entrepreneur estimated that 2.5 per cent of these asylum seekers are able to do picking work. However, I would like to raise one more point in relation to seasonal workers, that I hope that the government will actually take it seriously that the harvest will be harvested. We cannot count it on summer workers, because schools may start on time, nor on Finnish workers who have gone there on leave — an example of this was given by a gardener who had received a very good and motivated worker who had been there for two weeks. He had made a three - month contract on the grounds that he had been laid off for three months, but this only happened after two weeks he was called back to work and then left this garden. One of the things you might be able to speed up in some way: If I understand correctly, there will be limited opening of swimming pools at the beginning of June. At the moment, there has been feedback from people who belong to special sports, i.e. people who are disabled in some way or who have a disability rate, that they have been really doing things for months now in such a way that they have not been able to rehabilitate themselves in the swimming pool and elsewhere. So I would at least hope that if these restrictions were removed from the swimming pools, they would then be a priority in the early stages of getting there to rehabilitate themselves. — Thank you.
