ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u1	Before going into the agenda, I would like to reiterate the recommendation which was last week that most of the Members who are close to speaking should be present at the sitting. Today, I am not going to start a debate on the additional budget, but we are going in the order of the speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u2	I would like to inform you that 30 representatives have withdrawn their signature on the intermediate issue of government asylum policy, in which case Article 43 of the Constitution the number of signatures laid down. That is why the interim issue has been withdrawn and the case is closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Following Mr Kulmun's presentation, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches that have been requested in advance. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. A maximum of 2.5 hours is reserved for the referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the event of a scheduled case. And, as was said last week, all the speeches will be made at the site.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u4	Mr President! The greatest wisdom in the midst of the crisis is the ability to act and help, and it really is happening throughout society: care and caring, new ideas, building a bridge over this crisis, connecting people and caring about others. We are in a very serious situation. The Koronavirus threatens the foundations of Finnish society: human health and safety, as well as work and livelihood. It is still impossible to predict the duration of the epidemic and all the consequences. To get across the worst requires exceptionally strong measures, and on this basis we have put in place important measures to ensure people's health and safety, to safeguard jobs, people's livelihoods and businesses' ability to pay, and we will do everything we can to ensure that companies do not go into bankruptcy or unemployment in Finland. The amending budget now under discussion is the first amending budget due to the interest rate crisis and it is likely that even more will be adopted this spring. The first corona crisis supplementary budget implements the crisis package of last Friday's government to support people and businesses. The amending budget includes additional funding under the crisis package for health care and direct support for businesses through Business Finland and ely centres. Last Friday, the Government also decided on other measures to increase companies' ability to pay and access to finance, such as raising Finnvera's powers. However, this amending budget does not yet include the increases in social security expenditure resulting from fixed-term changes in unemployment security based on the proposals of the social partners. The Government has also explicitly stated that the strengthening of the finances of municipalities will return to the April spending limits debate. In the first phase, the government will support the people and in the second phase the municipalities will support them. Mr President! The amending budget before us today amounts to EUR 398 million, and of course health and safety will be a priority when we go through the appropriations in more detail. The measures considered necessary by health authorities will certainly not be subject to funding. For these purposes, more than EUR 40 million will be allocated, broken down as follows: EUR 12,8 million for the operating expenditure of the National Institute for Health and Welfare on the Corona virus and will be allocated to information to citizens, the functioning of information systems, the maintenance of laboratory capacity. EUR 6 million will be allocated to research into the epidemic caused by the corona virus, of which EUR 4 million will be used to monitor the effectiveness of the measures that slow down the spread. Finland also participated in the research and development of coronavirus vaccine with a funding of EUR 5 million. An increase of EUR 26 million is proposed in the control of communicable diseases. This concerns testing devices for hospital districts, the purchase of medical devices and procurement by the Emergency Supply Agency. In addition, the Government has earmarked EUR 200 million for unforeseen expenditure, which can subsequently be more targeted and used for health and safety needs. President! Ladies and gentlemen, the various ministries, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Life, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, all are working closely together to secure jobs, people's livelihoods, the business field as much as possible in these crisis situations. We have received important support from social partners, business associations, banks, the Bank of Finland, the Financial Supervisory Authority and other economic operators, whom I would also like to thank for my part in this. Such a situation requires very broad cooperation. The virus and its control measures considered necessary have caused shock on the domestic market. The revenue flow has disappeared completely from tourism, culture, restaurants and other service companies in many places, for example. Industrial production, on the other hand, is threatened by a decline in global demand, components are difficult to obtain, there are problems in logistics, and we are striving for measures to reduce the depth of the crisis and, hopefully, reduce the length of the crisis, so that as many healthy companies as possible can overcome this situation. The crisis package, which I have already referred to in cooperation with the Central Bank and financial institutions, will allow, on the basis of the government's actions, an additional EUR 15 billion of additional funding, most of which will be state guarantees for loans to companies through Finnvera. Furthermore, the calculation of the capital requirements of credit institutions will allow companies to receive new funding totalling EUR 30 billion, and when the measures taken by other financial institutions are calculated, the crisis package will reach around 50 billion on a national scale. All in all, when Finnvera's powers are increased, the purpose of the actions of their governments is, of course, to ensure that the State now guarantees and then the banks put the money in motion so that companies can cope with this exceptional situation. It is also easier for companies to postpone taxes and payments. Their volume is estimated at between EUR 3 and 4.5 billion, depending on the extent to which companies are now taking up opportunities. Companies can request a postponement of all tax types, including VAT and other excise duties, and the arrangement has been made very flexible and business-friendly. It is possible to postpone employers' contributions by 3 months, which is authorised by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. A total of EUR 200 million will be available for direct support to businesses. With business Finland's research, development and innovation powers, it is proposed to increase by EUR 150 million and to support business development projects by EUR 50 million. We have already received approval from the EU Commission for the payment of these small-scale subsidies, and the first ones from Business Finland have already been granted. In addition, half a million increases are proposed for Ely Centres to help entrepreneurs with economic and payment difficulties in crisis services. Direct support for entrepreneurs is also a new fixed-term right to unemployment benefit. All entrepreneurs, regardless of their form of enterprise, can obtain adjusted daily allowance. Access to the benefit does not require the cessation of business. We are currently looking for a smooth model for paying support as quickly and as quickly as possible. The legislative proposals will come to Parliament in the coming weeks. Entrepreneurs will also be facilitated by the temporary reduction of lay-offs to 5 days, and employees will benefit from the withdrawal of the 5-day retention period of unemployment benefit and the cost of it being borne by the State. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy are preparing legislation, which will also come to Parliament as a matter of urgency. These measures, decided by the government and proposed by the social partners, are initially valid for three months in order to make it more flexible in terms of unemployment security and labour market rules. After all, the situation is very uncertain and unpredictable. We do not know what lies ahead, and that is why we are talking about fixed-term measures, but, of course, we will continue to do so if there is a need. And, as I said, the additional appropriations required by the changes in social security are not yet in this amending budget, but will come to Parliament later. Mr President! As part of the social partners' package, the so-called increase in pension institutions' lending back to prevent cash crises in large companies was part of the package. The amending budget therefore proposes that, without requiring a counter-guarantee, the Government may grant a State guarantee of up to EUR 600 million to Ilmarinen, a pension insurance company, in order to secure the repayment of Finnair's occupational pensions. The operations of the domestic airline are essential for our security of supply, and Finnair’s business is suffering significantly from the global difficulties caused by the corona virus. The decline in continuous demand and the restrictions that have entered into force in different countries have led to a significant reduction in business activity. The amending budget also includes a number of appropriations to strengthen the security of people in emergency situations and sufficient resources for the authorities to the Criminal Sanctions Agency, the police, the Border Guard, the Rescue Department and the Defence Forces. The largest of these appropriations, 5.6 million, will be allocated to the police, and 3 million will be allocated to the Border Guard. As we are well aware, Finland has temporarily returned border control at the EU's internal borders as a result of the epidemic until 13.4. and the EU has returned EU external border control until 30.4. Finland is responsible for controlling its own external border, and the main part of the new appropriation is also allocated to this. President! We have shown together in this country that Finland is capable of solidarity when the situation is bad. The interest situation has given rise to an enormous amount of care to our most vulnerable and fragile loved ones. I believe that these decisions in the debate today are exactly the same concern. And, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the government is also setting out wider solutions in the spending limits debate on how to build a bridge to the long future. To conclude, I would like to remind you that, although the short-term economic policy agenda has changed, the long-term challenges will not disappear and even at a time of crisis we must be able to look to the future — raising employment rates, social reform and other measures to limit expenditure growth will become even more important as we overcome this crisis. The government will return to these without delay as soon as the acute situation is eased.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u5	Mr President! We all now share a common concern about the situation and the future of our common country. I am sure we all agree now that guaranteeing health and safety is now the most important thing. Several professional groups work under heavy pressure. In the coming weeks, perhaps months, that pressure will increase even further. They work in a hurry in a new, frightening situation, but they do it with a solid professionalism, and we have to rely on that professionalism. However, this professionalism is not enough without resources. It is clear that the amending budget must now safeguard the resources of the authorities to act in the best possible way in this exceptional situation. We must take care, for example, of the opportunities of health and social care, early childhood education and teachers, the Border Guard, rescue services, the police, cleaners and, for example, those who provide security of supply to help our country through this crisis, and we must appreciate and appreciate the work they are doing now, even after this crisis. Mr President! This situation brings great costs to all sectors, a great deal of concern to our entire industry. Many entrepreneurs are now living in an unreal nightmare of trying to save the jobs of their firm and workers they have built with hard work. Many employees are afraid of their jobs. We cannot afford to lose any businesses, no jobs, no livelihoods of any Finns. In fact, the government is doing its utmost now to prevent anyone from going into financial distress as a result of the interest rate, to prevent our economies from being supported, those persistent domestic companies, from going into bankruptcy and people from becoming unemployed. This will be the subject of extensive measures to ensure that this situation is dealt with together. I would like to thank the government for acting quickly and with sufficient seriousness, including in terms of transactions. The livelihood of Finns must also be safeguarded during and after this epidemic. Mr President! In the midst of this difficult situation, it is extremely important that we take care of everyone's well-being together now, that we ensure that no one is left in the midst of this new situation alone, that we do everything we can to prevent anyone from going into a dangerous situation at work or at home now — not mentally, not physically. We make sure that everyone has a way out of their home also under exceptional circumstances, for home does not symbolize security for everyone: substance abuse problems and intimate violence are also present in emergency situations. We also do well to remember that not everyone has a home to retire to. The role of helpable telephone services must be strengthened; the resources of child protection must be taken care of. People’s mental health may now be invested more than ever in peacetime. Services essential for human health and safety must be run around, and these are guaranteed by the government through these measures. The fact that we are living in the midst of exceptional circumstances is never a reason to trample or forget the importance of human rights. Instead, it is a reason to make more sure that the fundamental values of our precious country, the intermediate welfare state, are now in power and visible, because now is the time when we together are building up gaps in the welfare state network so that no one will fall through them even in this situation. Now is the time when we need the community in which we Finns are, for at the moment we are working together to build a survival story, a story about how everyone in this small, persistent country was cared for in and through this huge crisis. This story will be told in decades' time, and then each of us can say that we did everything we could to get everyone out of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u6	Mr President! Although the government programme had historically well prepared for economic shocks, no government could budget the corona crisis. This amending budget contains the most acute additions, and there will certainly be new amending budgets in the near future. At a time like this, the government must act quickly, and it is great that our government has also been able to do so. It seems unreal to read the news distributed by the opposition's representatives, how in the fight against corona there is only enough money for two litres of milk per citizen. Even if not all media operate responsibly, it is our duty to provide people with the right information. It is not the time to foment unjustified fears, but to do everything to ensure that the effects of the interest rate are as mild as possible, both in health, social and economic terms. Unfortunately, there are well-founded fears. The economy is collapsing around the world, and traditional resuscitation cannot reverse development as long as we have to keep people at home and keep jobs closed. We need to be prepared for substantial resuscitation at the time of the lifting of the restrictions. Until then, we need to look for different ways to help people in different situations. It is clear that it is not easy to stamp out new aid schemes from scratch. However, it is up to the government to speed up the official machinery. We have to look for solutions instead of looking for reasons not to help people. Stopping society will cost a lot of people their livelihood. Renters, shredders and temporary workers, those who are invited to work, small entrepreneurs, freelancers and other self-employed workers have already fallen to a large extent completely incomeless. Even thousands of laid off workers are not in a good situation, and even more people are afraid of their own jobs when companies are threatened with bankruptcy. Mr President! The decision of the Board of Directors to allow entrepreneurs rapid access to unemployment benefit, even though business activities are not completely discontinued, was very important. Facilitation of lay-offs and removal of qualifying points, on the other hand, will help both employees and employers. It is wonderful that this government seems to have learned from the mistakes of the 1990s. Instead of supporting bank owners ex-post and leaving people and jobs to their own devices, we start to support work and livelihood widely. It is important that economic support measures are targeted at those most in need, whether they are in the bread line, temporary workers, workers under the risk of lay-off or entrepreneurs. In practice, the state will also provide a huge amount of business support to prevent any viable workplace from falling due to a temporary demand problem. The easiest steps are now taken, the transfer of payments and taxes further into the future, and unsecured loans and loan guarantees. After all, the government itself receives interest-free loans from the market and is able to take the worst of the crisis. It is good that people are given direct income support. On the other hand, banks and large listed companies with worldwide ownership should not receive free aid, which in the worst case scenario will be distributed out as dividends already this spring. If listed companies need large capital, the state must be prepared to invest in equity. Then we citizens will have ownership in exchange for our money. It cannot be that profits are private and losses are public. We also have a large number of small businesses that are not very reachable by the aid measures that have been decided. Entrepreneurs whose rents represent a significant part of their expenses do not benefit much from the current decisions of the government. If large property owners soon do not agree to facilitate the payment of rent, the State must provide for the temporary cutting of rents. It could also be envisaged to provide temporary State support for small enterprises by paying part of the rent on condition that the lessor would drop the rent during the crisis to a very small part of the previous one. This could also benefit landlords: If small businesses are put out of business, the rent income will cease altogether. With a number of loss-sharing companies, all can eventually cope with smaller losses from companies to property owners and taxpayers. Mr President! A total of 200 million will be invested in health-required expenditure in the amending budget. Another 200 million will be spent to facilitate the financial situation of companies. Finnair now receives a large loan guarantee and is a typical example of a company whose possible future capitalisation should be made by making taxpayers’ ownership by increasing its market-based investment. Direct state aid is still small. The total value of the aid package will be up to EUR 15 billion by means of various guarantee and other arrangements. It is important to provide support to all those who need it without unnecessary red tape, but at the same time to ensure that jobs are supported
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u7	Mr President! It is good that this first additional budget is now on the table at this start. As many resources as possible, yet appropriate, should be put in place to prevent, monitor, protect and treat the virus. The model is Singapore, Hong Kong and Korea, where the number of new infections has been folded. It costs money to prevent the virus, but the cost is also small in the overall picture. The more effective it is to prevent the spread of the virus, the more lives will be saved and the more economic damage will be limited to businesses and households. It costs money to run out of cash flow and the bankruptcy wave. As a result of interest measures, it is necessary to consider aid to firms in difficulty in terms of wage costs — not just a loan or a loan guarantee, but also direct aid. As an exceptional measure, there are grounds for this. An example can be sought from England, which decided to temporarily contribute to the wage costs of people who would otherwise have to be made redundant as a matter of urgency. The English model has a financial ceiling and only a certain proportion will be replaced. It is currently offered for a period of three months and the situation will be reviewed at a later stage. The cost estimate is roughly £1,000 per person per month. The total budget is three and a half billion pounds, but this is in an economy that is ten times higher than Finland. So this is the case in England, which is, however, an Anglo-Saxon market economy and also a very familiar place for me. A similar model should be considered in Finland in our own circumstances, at least for smaller companies in the private sector, which are particularly hit by the emergency situation. Although it costs public finances, the depletion of the cash flow of companies would lead to a massive wave of bankruptcy and unemployment, which is much worse. We must now focus on companies and workers who are at risk of being laid off as a result of the situation. It is much better for these people to remain in business than for them to be temporarily laid off for unemployment benefit, which also pays to the state. The costs must be compared with the costs of unemployment. Companies must be given at least a few months in this situation. Many employers who employ more than one employee see borrowing as too risky a draw when there is no sudden cash flow. Even in a smaller company, wage costs amount to tens of thousands of euros a month, so that in a few months, the debt can accumulate so much that the entrepreneur does not want or cannot take a risk. Therefore, direct support should at least be considered in one way or another. It may be limited in time to a few months, may be subject to a financial ceiling per person and/or enterprise, as well as to ownership and other considerations and conditions. In quantitative terms, it can be moderate in such a way that it can work for at least a short time. We don't have much time. I would ask the Minister and the Government to understand the seriousness of this issue and to clarify the introduction of direct aid as a matter of urgency as an exceptional measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u8	Mr President! The Ministry of the Interior’s administrative authorities have prepared assessments of the wide-ranging impact of coronavirus on operational activities. They are based on a significant staff removal caused by the epidemic and measures to ensure the management of critical core tasks by the authorities even in exceptional circumstances. Not all draft appropriations for preparedness were presented to this amending budget as the future developments in the situation and its impact on the functioning of the authorities are not yet known, but are monitored continuously, on a daily basis. The Ministry of the Interior considers it important that the adequate number of staff required for operational tasks by the internal security authorities, including regional rescue services, be secured and the costs incurred are reimbursed in accordance with actual costs in subsequent amending budgets. An increase of EUR 5.6 million is proposed to the police in the additional expenditure resulting from the corona virus epidemic. This appropriation is intended to cover the recruitment of additional staff — for the nine months following around 30 person-years — as well as increasing occupational health expenditure, cleaning and supplies. Additional staff will facilitate the burden of work on the staff of the police services in very exceptional circumstances. In addition, provision will be made for increased health care expenditure by the police. The additional money will also provide additional cleaning services and disinfectants. These measures will enable the police and customers to maintain the highest possible level of safety even during the corona virus epidemic. Mr President! A total increase of EUR 3 million is proposed for the Border Guard, mainly because Finland has temporarily reinstated border controls at the EU's internal borders during the period 19 March to 13 April. The EU has also returned EU external border control following an epidemic of interest rates until 30 April, and, as the Minister of Finance pointed out, Finland is, of course, responsible for controlling its own external borders in this situation too. As a result of the increase in border control, an additional EUR 2.5 million is proposed for increased expenditure for the Border Guard. Internal border control shall be carried out by the same staff normally responsible only for the control of the external border. For this reason, the implementation of controls requires a substantial increase in the input of existing staff. This will be done, among other things, in the form of overtime, reserve arrangements and additional staff for the Border Guard from the border guards who have retired in recent years. In addition, an increase of EUR half a million is proposed to the Border Guard in the case of rising health expenditure arising from the epidemic. Mr President! It is also proposed to the Ministry of the Interior to provide additional funding for the emergency services' contingency expenses resulting from the epidemic. An increase of EUR 0.6 million is proposed to the Ministry of the Interior in the operating costs of the rescue services, resulting in additional costs for regional rescue services in the fight against coronavirus and related preparedness. Additional appropriations are needed for protective equipment and equipment, for the work of equipment supplies and for the distribution of equipment to fire stations, for instructions and translations, and for disinfection equipment. In addition, the costs include the costs of testing staff for coronavirus. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u9	Mr President! The interest crisis in which we live has shown how important the structures of our welfare state are. Finland’s public health system is world-class, and in a very short time we have been able to make decisions together and adapt to the difficult situation. Support for the amending budget proposed by the government is currently primarily aimed at ensuring that healthy businesses do not go bankrupt due to the temporary crisis and that the livelihoods of citizens are also safeguarded. We must not repeat the mistakes of the recession of the 1990s. Unemployment was then allowed to grow and the operating lists were long. The cost of the consequences of the recession in the 1990s is still being paid today as social and health problems. Nor must the interest-rate crisis become an excuse to undermine the infrastructure of the welfare state after the crisis. On the contrary, the welfare state should be kept under constant development and strengthened. Mr President! The Left Alliance believes that it is important that economic support measures are directed to those most in need, whether they are in the bread line, temporary workers, freelancers, workers under the risk of layoffs or other small entrepreneurs who have lost their livelihoods. The costs of this crisis must not be reduced to ordinary people at the same time as banks and large companies continue as before. This crisis must be solved together. Human health is now a priority, and the first amending budget of the government will ensure that society operates despite exceptional circumstances and that people's health is taken care of. Support measures to safeguard income and maintain jobs are very important. Mr President! The economic crisis caused by the interest rate has hit the private sector first, and its impact on the municipal economy is reflected in a delay. Local government employees are now holding society up, and municipalities must be supported beyond this crisis. The government's first support measures are now directed towards health protection and support for businesses and people's livelihoods in order to overcome the most acute situation, but the municipalities need their own support package as soon as the situation picture becomes clearer. The government has announced that municipalities will be supported, and this is good and important information. At the same time, municipalities must now put an end to the hasty reduction and lay-off of staff. There is no point in the reduction of municipalities' staff, which has been reported, now that many citizens need special support and assistance. For example, municipalities could now take over food supplies for those who remain in their homes under quarantine. Mr President! The exceptional measures of this spring call for a new way of thinking for us. I already talked about this last week in connection with the issue of the Emergency Act. Under these circumstances, temporary basic income would be a sensible way to secure the livelihood of all Finns. I repeat this view because I have received more feedback on this issue, i.e. on basic income, than on all other issues in my parliamentary work so far combined. It can be seen that Kela and the unemployment funds will become very congested under the pressure of various payments. In turn, basic income would be paid to everyone of working age, whether unemployed, employed or self-employed. Of course, it would be progressively taxed away from those on good income who do not need it. There is now an emergency situation in Finland that is testing everyone’s adaptability. Concern over one’s own livelihood adds to the burden of many, even putting undue pressure on mental health. In these exceptional times, basic income would be a particularly good reform, a temporary one that could strengthen well-being and trust in society. That is why I hope that the government will consider this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u10	Mr President! The government's additional budget will be needed. The stake is very high, but the problem is that not all companies will be able to borrow money because they will never be able to repay these loans. Nor does this alone help companies to overcome the cash crises and the pitfalls that have come before them as a result of the corona virus. That is why I hope that the government will support companies directly. One way could be, for example, a rental subsidy whereby the State would commit itself to paying a third of the entrepreneur’s rent, the lessor would be forced to pay a third and the lessee would pay a third. There are ways if you want to. The German Government has just announced that the lessor may not terminate private or corporate tenants from the beginning of April to the end of June if they have not been able to pay their rent due to the interest rate crisis. The government should be working now, because otherwise there will be bankruptcies. Many other countries have also introduced a pay subsidy in which the state pays several dozen per cent of the wages of workers under the lay-off threat, even in full. I would also like to say that it is not true that Finnvera guarantees and the banks distributes, as the ministers indicated. I have a practical example in which Finnvera guarantees 80 per cent of the loan but the entrepreneur has to put a guarantee of 10 per cent on it. In addition, the bank will require collateral for the remaining 20 %, which Finnvera does not guarantee. The bank won't even take a 20% risk. It'll take that from the client. The banks are using this situation to the full. There's got to be a change. It can't be that the entrepreneur is taking a big risk. The entrepreneur is not responsible for the coronavirus and in many cases has previously assumed responsibilities, such as starting a business. I am now reading a message from an entrepreneur from my countless messages: ‘My wife is less than a year-old business in Helsinki. The sales stopped like a wall two weeks ago. In February, when we paid the staff bonuses to meet the sales targets, a week later we laid them off. The situation is unsustainable for us. My wife has terrible corporate loans, and all of a sudden the carpet is pulled out. The rent is over 20000 euros a month and the sales are 300 euros. The government should negotiate with the landlords. Some form of rental aid should be directed at landlords and they could then relieve tenants of the burden of debt from the months in which the sale is non-existent.’ However, there is something about this that will inevitably come to mind as it was in our sad economic history. ‘Management to large companies and laid-off workers,but small Mr President! Good government, show me you've learned from history.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u11	Mr President! The Korona epidemic is now hitting hard on people who are already in a fragile social position. In fact, the functioning of the Finnish welfare state is being tested — it seems that the sectors of our society that are already suffering from chronic resource shortages are now the most affected by the epidemic itself and the restrictions associated with it. Such services include services for the homeless, substance abuse and mental health services, services for those experiencing intimate partner violence and child protection services. However, here I am raising a specific group, which seems to be particularly vulnerable, namely family carers. What happens if a carer gets sick during a corona crisis? What happens to those who are being treated, most of whom are unable to cope on their own? Is health care able to cope with the illness of both family carers and caregivers? There are 45,000 official family carers in Finland, and there are even more informally. The absolute majority of family carers are women, and they hold on to a very small income. A little more than half of the family carers tend to the aging neighbor, and the majority of these carers are in the 64-84 age group itself. A little less than half of the family carers take care of the disabled loved one. In particular, a significant proportion of the family carers of older people belong to the risk group itself. These people are now particularly distressed when quarantine concerns both the nurse and the carer. Many adult family carers have also been left out of working life because the day centres are closed. You can't leave someone alone for a day at home. The family carers themselves have hoped that there would now be an attempt to limit the variety of home care staff in order to avoid infection, but it is clear that the crisis also requires other measures from the point of view of health care as a whole. The second point for family carers is that, at present, the allowance for informal care will be suspended if the care of the family is continued for more than five days. This also applies to family carers if they fall ill. How, then, will it be ensured that a family carer survives in such a situation if the caregiver is hospitalized for a longer period of time because of the interest? The suspensions and evaluations of subsidies require relief and due to the exceptional situation, understanding is needed. In our society, carers do invisible work with a very small income, and they are in a tight spot even under normal conditions. We must not forget this group now that more crisis measures are being planned by the government. Mr President! In addition to carers, the art and culture field is one of the worst sufferers of this crisis. Now all spring’s work and living with it have been able to leave literally overnight. These are often people whose livelihoods have been uncertain even before the crisis. Even before the crisis, the majority of artists had daily income problems. The situation in which much of the income has become something other than artistic work is familiar. Now this crisis will make the situation even worse. It is great that the government has gone out of its way and determinedly to take action that will at least make it easier for some of the actors in the art and culture field. In addition, you can also apply for support from Business Finland in creative industries, for example, but in this case you must be a company. However, the majority of operators in the sector work in non-profit associations which are not covered by this aid. Now we must do everything possible to secure the livelihood of the art and culture field during this crisis period, but that is not enough. When the acute crisis is over, aftercare is also needed for the creative sectors. Otherwise, the effects of the crisis will extend years away, not only to artists but also to the arts and culture that are essential to the well-being of all of us. It is also an area of economic importance which we cannot afford to smite.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u12	Mr President! This amending budget will focus on the costs of the fight against coronavirus and preparedness and other urgent budgetary needs directly related to this issue, such as facilitating the financing of businesses. We will need more of these amending budgets in the coming weeks, and the local government finances in particular now need to be closely monitored, as municipalities need to be supported with additional government funding because of the increase in expenditure and the sudden deterioration in tax revenue caused by the corona virus situation. The economic situation in many municipalities was already weak, and now the additional cost of the epidemic is further weakening this situation. The municipalities are in a very difficult situation. The Government has committed itself to compensate municipalities for the loss of income resulting from the deferral of tax contributions. However, this is not enough. A broader assessment of the state of local government finances is about to be completed at the spending limits bar at the beginning of April, where further targeted measures can then be decided on the basis of an up-to-date picture of the situation. But a few important withdrawals from this amending budget. An additional amount of almost EUR 13 million proposed in the amending budget for the operating expenditure of the National Institute for Health and Welfare is necessary. These include information to citizens and the safeguarding of the functioning of information systems and the maintenance of laboratory capacity. 6 million will be allocated to research into the epidemic, in particular the development of rapid diagnostic methods and the development of immunity and the establishment of a national monitoring system. In addition, funding is used to monitor the effectiveness of measures to slow the spread of the corona virus, and Finland also participates in the research and development of the coronavirus vaccine. And an increase of EUR 26 million is proposed in the control of communicable diseases. President! In order to facilitate the financial situation of companies, the government has prepared a comprehensive package of support. In addition, 150 additional million are coming to Business Finland for business support activities. The authorisation to grant Ely Centre business development projects will be increased by EUR 50 million. The additional authorisation will be used, in particular, for grants to SMEs in the service sectors but also, where appropriate, in other sectors. In addition, the Ely Centres receive funding to implement the national operating model for entrepreneurs with financial and payment difficulties and to strengthen the financial assistance service. Mr President! For their part, labour market organisations have been able to agree on measures to safeguard the livelihoods of people who are laid off or who lose their jobs, in particular. In addition, these measures will make it easier for businesses to adapt to the difficult situation. These measures include speeding up the timetable for the negotiations, which strengthens the ability of companies to react. On the other hand, the financial security of workers will be improved by abolishing the special days of unemployment security. In addition, the State is preparing to support the activities of the unemployment funds so that they can best support those who have become unemployed. At the same time as these measures are taken, it should be borne in mind that these measures are of a fixed-term nature and that the status of workers should not be permanently undermined. In addition to the measures put forward by the social partners, the government guarantees the livelihood of entrepreneurs and freelancers, whatever their form of enterprise, through unemployment benefit, and this is a very important issue. In addition to the actions set out in the amending budget, the financing of companies will be secured through a number of billion-dollar operations, of which Finnvera's insurance policy is the most important. Together, all these actions will build a bridge for companies across these difficult times. We must do everything in our power to ensure the functioning of the labour market, to avoid the bankruptcy of viable companies and to facilitate the position of employees in this difficult situation. There will also be more funding for the police, the Border Guard and the Rescue Department, and an additional EUR 200 million will be proposed in the case of exceptional circumstances, and all this money will now be more than necessary. Ensuring Finnair's operating conditions and supporting people and operators in the cultural sector, among others, has also been taken into account in this amending budget. But, Mr President, the health of our citizens is the most important thing in this crisis, and we now need everything to do with it. Even though the economic situation is deteriorating rapidly now, government measures can still mitigate this attack. I also believe that the more effective we can reduce the harm to people, the faster we will recover from this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u13	Mr President! We have already heard many speeches in this Chamber today about the unprecedented impact of the corona epidemic on the various sectors of society. In addition, we have heard how the government is prepared to tackle the challenges posed by the situation by various means. I am therefore very glad that the government has presented an amending budget and a broader package of economic support. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Marin, the government has worked tirelessly to get us through this crisis together. Korona has put a huge amount of Finns in great financial difficulties, and above all. Ordinary Finns have to fear for their jobs. It's not the guts to do that when money's simply not enough. It is clear that difficult times are at hand and are ahead of us all. More than 120,000 Finns are already facing layoffs or its threat, and the number is expected to increase. It is absolutely essential that their livelihoods are safeguarded at this difficult time. At the same time, we must do everything possible to give them the opportunity to return to work as soon as possible. We must do everything we can to ensure that healthy businesses do not go bankrupt during this hopefully short crisis. But even in difficult times, you get away with it. A fine example of this is the labour market organisations which, in the midst of the crisis, quickly found agreement on even difficult issues. The abolition of the qualifying days for unemployment benefit and, on the other hand, the reduction of negotiating periods in the event of lay-off are examples of good cooperation. The crisis has shown the importance of an effective dialogue between the social partners on the one hand and the government on the other. The fight against the effects of the corona is common to all of us. Mr President! This exceptional situation, the hardest of all, hits small entrepreneurs and self-employed people. Like larger companies, they may not have savings on the side of the sock for a rainy day, but daily cash flow corresponds to the daily wage bill. When Finns, fortunately, are now left to spend their daily lives in the name of our common security, customers disappear from companies. At the same time, the opportunity to try is central to the employment rate in Finland now and in the future. I am therefore pleased that in this amending budget the government is targeting support measures specifically on them, for example, by postponing the statutory contributions of employers and by bringing entrepreneurs into the scope of unemployment benefit. It is our job to ensure that Finns continue to have the opportunity to work and to be well. Every decision to lay off and lay off is based on a person. We must remember the families with bread on the table attached to the salary. Mr President! I am proud of our government, which, with this first aid package and the amending budget, is ready to tackle these challenges and, even in this crisis situation, to be on the side of the ordinary worker and the small entrepreneur. It is clear to all of us that further action is needed, but today we have a good start in our hands which will target the people most in need, whether individual people or companies. With this amending budget and support, we can ensure that society operates despite exceptional circumstances and that human health is taken care of. That is the most important thing right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u14	Mr President! Unfortunately, we do not yet know how long the emergency caused by the corona virus will last. However, it is already quite clear that exceptional measures are needed to safeguard people's health, livelihoods and jobs and to support businesses. Healthcare resources must, of course, be secured. Slowing down the spread of the corona virus and treating it must not be caught up in funding. This is what the Government’s proposal for the 2020 amending budget is responding to. At the same time, however, efforts must already be made to anticipate the post-exempt period. So we must not be able to survive the virus, but we will no longer be able to maintain the welfare state after a state of emergency. It is not enough, therefore, to minimise the health effects of the corona virus. It must also be possible to minimise the negative effects of an inevitable fall in the economy and employment. We must not unleash mass unemployment or the wave of bankruptcy. The State is now taking responsibility for a situation in which no entrepreneur or employee is guilty. Companies must therefore be supported beyond this. Funding must be provided and operational conditions must be sought. The amending budget also responds to this. Balancing between the acute health effects of the virus and the long-term challenges of the economy will not be easy. In the event of a possible prolonged state of emergency, more means and more money will be needed. President! In many respects, Finland is also fortunate in terms of the interest rate. The favourable economic and employment developments in recent years have improved our resilience to crisis. Despite the delay in the wars, our health care is still at the top of the world. There is also housing in Finland across the country, and this is useful to us. We have also ensured security of supply and security of supply. President! I'm counting on you to get through this, too. There are strong measures in the amending budget to ensure human health and safety and to safeguard jobs, people's livelihoods and businesses' ability to pay. And, as Minister of Finance Katri Kulmuni said, Finland is capable of solidarity when the situation is bad. The interest situation has also given rise to an enormous amount of care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u15	Mr President! I fully agree with those speeches which have raised concerns about the ability of Finnish entrepreneurs and companies to operate during this crisis and especially since. It is an unmistakable fact that this crisis is now hitting small businesses in particular, the sole proprietors very strongly. For the sole entrepreneur, the company’s balance sheet is equal to that of the ATM account balance, and when the cash flow stops completely, everyone understands that the company will then be in crisis. These communications, I can tell you, I have hundreds at the moment. What has been called for here in several speeches: we are always looking for models that can provide direct aid to businesses. We cannot isolate any particular sector from there, because all sectors are currently suffering. Perhaps it can be said that we started out a little ahead of tourism in a certain way, but now this comes to all sectors, so we need to use means that can directly target these small businesses with this help. This proposal now proposes an increase of EUR 150 million in direct grants from Business Finland, which would amount to a total of EUR 477.5 million. What may reflect this rate at which these grants are sought is that when the application for development funding was opened on 19 March, today a total of 255 million have been applied for — that is, how many days now, six days, five days. So this is about the speed at which you are now applying for direct grants from companies. On the Business Finland side, of course, it must be borne in mind that they are then subject to a limited liability company. Another element that will certainly be — and I know that there is already — very much in use is direct aid to businesses through ely centres. We are always working on the fact that, let us say, the Ely Centres operating with a relatively narrow resource in this situation could carry out that task of targeted assistance to these companies. Of course, companies will now have the key costs — rent costs, energy, water, such — and I appeal to all parties who are able to show flexibility, a couple of times to consider, for example, whether it is worthwhile for a good tenant to go bankrupt with rents or to come up against a little rent. Of course, mere postponement is a good thing first, but if three months are postponed and then four months of rent comes next, then of course it is not the solution. Funding has been increased through Finnvera, but it must also be borne in mind that this funding is specifically intended for companies that are in a healthy condition and need additional funding because of the situation caused by this corona virus. There is surprisingly much feedback about the fact that interest rates are very high and at a disadvantage. As a rule, the economy of companies has been in such a bad state for a long time that it is not in line with the situation that this epidemic has become. The most important thing is that we have that liquidity there. Personally, I would not mind if Parliament were to exercise budgetary power here, and we have these specific points of direct assistance in which we will certainly need further assistance, but we are always working to target and help those companies that are in the most distress.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u16	Mr President! In just a few weeks, the Korona virus has put Finland, Europe and the whole world in such a state that our perception of everyday life has changed almost in the blink of an eye. Our economy is being tested in an unprecedented way, and we are all very concerned about how we can cope with this. Today we are dealing with the Government's proposal for an amending budget that sends a strong message to Finns in the midst of this crisis: we must now, in every way possible, secure the functioning of the labour market, avoid the waves of bankruptcies in domestic companies and facilitate the position of workers in this difficult situation. Korona does not treat everyone equally, and many Finns are still wondering how to get along as a result of unexpected layoffs or layoffs, or whether they are going to have to put a note at the door of their own company without the slightest idea of when the situation is becoming normal. We must ensure that assistance is available in a timely and easy manner. Human resources must not be spent on fighting to secure their own livelihoods, and that is why our system must now also be flexible. The income of those who are laid off or unemployed is secured, inter alia, by the removal of the days of self-reliance in unemployment benefit and the employee would also be entitled to unemployment allowance when the lay-off is agreed upon. The State has also prepared to support the activities of unemployment funds with a total of EUR 20 million during 2020, the principle of which is still agreed separately. In order to ensure the livelihood of entrepreneurs and freelancers, the Board of Directors proposes that the deterioration in the conditions of business by reason of the interest rate would be justified in assessing the business activity as a secondary activity, which would give a person the right to unemployment benefit. Moreover, receiving an entrepreneur’s unemployment benefit would not require the cessation of business. Among other things, these are ways in which the government seeks to ease the plight of entrepreneurs. We will certainly need more action, but today we are here to discuss the most acute needs that need to be met now. Mr President! The decision of the Financial Supervisory Authority to lower the capital requirements of Finnish credit institutions will increase the ability of Finnish banks to grant credit to companies in this difficult situation. At the same time, however, it must be closely monitored that the reductions made by banks are aimed at mitigating the effects of the economic crisis, i.e. not at paying dividends or performance fees, for which it is now necessary to consider what is responsible in this situation. Mr President! We do not even know what the final effects of the interest rate will be, nor can we assess it as a whole, but it is clear that the municipalities will not get away with this easily either. All in all, the situation of municipalities has been very challenging even before the pandemic broke out, but at this moment the municipalities have a vital role to play in keeping Finnish society on its feet beyond this crisis. The Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities has estimated that the effects of the coronavirus epidemic will weaken the finances of municipalities, and the Government will assess the finances of municipalities as a whole, and the April spending limits debate will bring proposals for wider support measures for municipalities. This may mean, for example, targeted support or a temporary increase in central government contributions. The government is committed to supporting municipalities, and it would therefore also be desirable for municipalities to refrain now from extensive lay-offs or lay-offs. Difficult decisions will certainly have to be taken, but every possible means must be checked before they are taken. For example, in order to minimise lay-offs, we need to ask ourselves, with an open mind, whether something could be done differently. One option would be to transfer workers facing a lay-off threat to new jobs if there is a need for hand pairs elsewhere. Some municipalities have already established resource banks or other ways of increasing flexibility in the use of personnel. Mr President! I do have a strong credit to make sure we're okay. All we have to do now is keep our heads cold, help and support those who need help and listen to the instructions of the authorities. Together, as a nation, we have survived worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u17	Mr President! In the midst of this unprecedented crisis, it is essential to ensure that everything is done to safeguard human health, safety and livelihood, and the government is now responding to this need — or rather is starting to respond. It is now known that even this EUR 15 billion historic package will not be the only action, but that supplementary budgets will be introduced throughout the spring. It is the case that no one should fall on top of nothing in the midst of a pandemic that is already tough, especially for many of the most vulnerable. That is why it is good that there are now many benefits to social security. For example, the abolition of days of self-reliance on unemployment benefit, the reduction of the conditions of employment and the expansion of entrepreneurs are indeed necessary, especially for those who have previously been social security interlocutors. Many freelancers and sole entrepreneurs have in the past been in a situation where social security has not been available at a difficult time at all, and it is therefore important that, following this crisis, the possibilities of making these developments permanent are also assessed. Generally speaking, it is imperative that social security conditions are interpreted as flexibly as possible during this crisis, and that is why it was good to hear from Kela last week that they are prepared to act in a flexible manner. It is true that, in the midst of such a crisis, people are not necessarily able to provide all the studies that have been required, such as seeking work in the middle of a situation like this, difficult or even impossible, and at the same time ensuring the necessary livelihood and care of people is a fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution, which must, in all circumstances, take precedence over bureaucracy. That is why it is wise to take the system towards an ever more basic income direction, which specifically puts the guarantee of every necessary livelihood at the centre of the system, and if this requires legislative changes, then we must be prepared to do so. It must be ensured that the necessary livelihoods of the poorest Finns in particular are not caught by long queues or budgetary constraints. At the same time, of course, it is essential to ensure that no one's care is caught up in a shortage of money. It is difficult to come up with a more important use for tax euros than to safeguard human lives. Healthcare is now facing tough challenges when a dangerous pandemic spreads despite precautions. Nurses and doctors are re-educated under high pressure in order to multiply the capacity of intensive care in particular. Many are now doing even longer days than usual under more foreseeable conditions, and there is no prospect that this crisis will soon be over. The current assessment by the THL should be that the epidemic peaks in May–June,that is to say, the life guarantee period in thecare sector Circumstances also pose problems other than physical health. For example, vitally important are the help of telephone services, which provide protection and advice from loneliness as well as, for example, those suffering from intimate partner violence and mental health problems. We must ensure that no one is left alone in the midst of this truly distressing and difficult situation. Services essential for human health and safety must also be kept rolling in the middle of the crisis. This is also what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs last week drew attention to in its reports on the introduction and application of the Emergency Act. For example, a large proportion of social services are necessary for people, even in the midst of this crisis, rather because of this crisis. Many children are now excluded from the school’s safety net, many elderly people are left entirely alone at home if they are not close enough to take care of even by telephone calls, and these exceptional circumstances are challenging to develop entirely new operating models under severe pressure. This work is now being done under heavy pressure day and night in municipalities around Finland, and I want to thank the municipalities of Finland for their hard work already at this stage. Now the municipalities must be guaranteed support, the resources needed to move forward together from this crisis. Because it can't be that we leave people alone. At the same time, care must be taken to ensure that when we get out of this crisis, these costs generated during this period will not be paid for all the most vulnerable. We know that we also need welfare state safety nets to recover from the recession. Many children, young ones, the elderly, the most difficult of all, will take a long time to get on with their lives after this. Companies need citizens with purchasing power. That is why it is important that there is still a lot of patience for many years to come so that these measures are not later paid for with excessive or hasty financial discipline. We need to learn a lesson from the recession in the '90s.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u18	Mr President! We are all in the midst of a real crisis now. This situation has indeed changed very quickly, and there is legitimate concern in this Chamber about people's livelihoods and social security. A few speeches have raised the issue of basic income in the debate. I would now like to say that we in the government are now making every effort to ensure the smooth and flexible payment of current benefits, and we are also targeting these new measures for those whose situation is now changing or who are the most vulnerable. This crisis is here and now, and we need rapid solutions, and I am not entirely convinced that, in this situation, it would even be possible to build completely new systems, or that it would even make sense for these people, who are now in real need of help. But, on the other hand, I also understand that, now that this benefit system is facing exceptional challenges, we also need to look at this system and the creative solutions and their possibility. And I hope that we will all remember these too at the moment when we are able to reform our social security system as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u19	I would like to draw attention to this five-minute time recommendation. We have 56 speeches left, that is, for hours, hours, and there is also that important regulation. This is just a referral debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u20	Mr President! In addition to all the other concerns and worries, we are facing a huge economic crisis which, according to some estimates, will go beyond the recessions of the 1990s and perhaps the 30s. The follow-up to the financial crisis that we have had for the past 10 years is not exactly suited to the corona crisis. Now both part of our exports and private consumption are on ice. In many areas, production drops to half in an instant. Many sectors have virtually stopped. There may be growth in the grocery trade and pharmacies and in the sale of respiratory protection. Those labour-intensive SMEs with a turnover of less than EUR 5 million are in the most vulnerable position. They immediately need direct support for the cash and financial crisis and for the continuation of their activities. Similarly, they need support for reconstruction once the urgent and rapid means have been put to an end. The government does good work, but more is needed. Resources must be allocated to combating and rebuilding the depth of the recession. The most important factor in the economy is at present the virus and how to stop the epidemic it causes. The next most important issue is money, and it is still limited, although in a crisis of this magnitude it may not be as limited as it is in general. Budget resources must be transferred significantly to SMEs and, above all, to economic reconstruction. Equally important is the requirement for realistic, pragmatic and nationalistic transparency of government spending. All actions must benefit Finland and Finns and lead our country towards better times, safety, health and new well-being. Mr President! The concept of security of supply needs to be significantly extended to global disruptions. The security of supply of industry and construction needs to be improved, but it is particularly needed for critical products in the healthcare sector. After the crisis, self-sufficiency and security of supply must be taken more seriously than before. Critical products can no longer be competitive throughout the Union. Security stocks should be significantly increased. Concrete security of supply planning through joint efforts by sectors and by the state must start in order to ensure supply chain security also in exceptional crisis situations. Mr President! Finally, the same wish for the government as before: Keep the opposition informed and involved. This is exactly the unity that is needed now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u21	Mr President! Today we are dealing with the first government amending budget to respond to the human and economic crisis caused by the corona epidemic. The situation is still alive, and the government is constantly working to make the necessary means available to deal with this crisis with as little damage as possible. The main task of the government is now to safeguard people's health, safety and livelihood in these exceptional circumstances. No one's care should be dependent on lack of money, no one in Finland should be left alone without support. Even in times of crisis, and especially then, we must take care of everyone. One of the most critical tasks of the government and hospital districts is to ensure the functioning of health care. It is of paramount importance that everyone who is seriously affected by corona receive the treatment they need, while at the same time being able to handle other acute measures such as childbirth, cancer treatments and urgent surgery. Yesterday, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health decided to open up Finnish security of supply stores in order to ensure, among other things, the adequacy of protective equipment. This, too, shows how exceptional we are in this situation. Mr President! The health care staff are struggling now. They have to work under heavy conditions for all of us Finns. They must now have peace of work, and everything must be done to support their ability to work and their ability to cope. Thank you and strength in this exceptional situation. Mr President! The amending budget makes significant investments in research and development. Finland invests EUR 6 million in a large-scale research consortium, which, among other things, monitors the effectiveness of measures to slow the spread of the virus, investigates the emergence of immunity and develops rapid diagnostic methods. In addition, Finland participates EUR 5 million in international vaccine development work. It is important that we harness the Finnish's high expertise to control this wretched virus. Mr President! In addition to health professionals, there are many other occupational groups that keep our society spinning under these exceptional circumstances. Thanks to sellers, cleaners, waste managers, food workers and many others for their valuable work. Thank you, too, to teachers, social workers, child welfare and everyone else who takes care of those whose powers are not enough. It is important that we remember the importance of these professional groups even after this crisis. Mr President! At the moment, there are a huge number of people and families in our country whose economy has collapsed. Last Friday, the government announced measures to support entrepreneurs and freelancers whose working and living conditions have been taken away by the interest rate. It is important that it is decided that entrepreneurs should be included in unemployment benefit without having to drive their own company down. As has been said in this Chamber, further efforts are needed to alleviate the plight of entrepreneurs and businesses, and these are constantly being investigated by the government. Mr President! Local authorities are now also very concerned about the sustainability of the economy. The economy of many municipalities was weak even before the corona virus, and now the situation is very gloomy in some places. Municipalities are in very different situations and their capacity to respond to the changes brought about by the crisis is also different. It is important that we are able to support different municipalities in this difficult situation. Municipalities play a crucial role in the fact that services that are important to residents also run during the crisis. As has been said several times in this Chamber, it is hoped that the municipalities will now refrain from layoffs. In many municipalities employees have been transferred to other jobs that are now acute from the point of view of the interest rate. Municipalities organise distance learning, school food distribution, helpline phones, reorganise the administration and management of emergency conditions. At the same time, municipalities want clear and balanced guidance from the state on which services and how they are now to be provided and how their financing will be organised. We must be able to respond to this request and, above all, be able to work well with the municipalities and ensure that the municipalities are also able to share these good practices. Mr President! With this amending budget, the government will respond to the acute additional financing needs of the corona virus and it will indeed be necessary. This is not the end of the work; new measures need to be prepared and implemented preferably in a forward-looking manner, where necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u22	Mr President! Everyone in exceptional circumstances is working under pressure, and that is why I would like to thank the Minister for bringing an additional economic assessment here to the House for its rapid examination. However, it is honest to say that the proposal has already become obsolete and too modest in scale in these days, which is why the Coalition Party has submitted its own proposals and initiatives to the amending budget, which I shall now briefly go through in the hope that they will also respond to the government and that these can be taken up. In our draft amending budget, the assembly proposes a package of subsidies for businesses, EUR 200 million to be increased to EUR 500 million, so that we can respond quickly to the needs of companies and that there is no delay. In addition, we present additional resources to ensure the testing and protective equipment capacity and additional resources for the police, the Border Guard, as well as more resources for the cultural and artistic sectors than, unfortunately, this amending budget still existed. I would like to say a few words about this need to ensure the testing and protective equipment capacity. We now have a lot of information and concern about the lack of protective equipment in the field, especially in home care. I know that the opening up of a security of supply warehouse will enable these needs to be better addressed now, but we think it is absolutely necessary to act very quickly here and ensure that those who work in social and health care right there on the frontline to save lives and, for example, to help the elderly, who are now in isolation in their homes, can be guaranteed adequate protective equipment. I hope that particular attention will be paid to this, and I would also ask Parliament to take this into account when adopting the additional budget. Similarly, I believe it is necessary to ensure that the resources of the benefit handlers are available to Kela, because new tasks and the need and pressure are on the way, so that it is absolutely essential that this is quickly achieved and that the benefits necessary for people's livelihood can be granted in time. Minister Kulmuni, a specific question for you — thank you for being here. I would like to ask: when the government is preparing a proposal, is the relief of lay-offs applied equally to all companies? It would now be important to have a clear answer to this. And this big picture. SMEs are in great need, and this is reflected in all the contacts we are all sure to have here. These are very specific everyday issues, such as the payment of rent and the payment of bills in this situation, where demand and supply are collapsing at the same time. We must be able to make new proposals quickly, which will help businesses in distress. In other words, this package, which is now in the amending budget and which has been quickly implemented through, among other things, Business Finland, does not sufficiently help the large number of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. That is why the Coalition Party has prepared and will continue to prepare proposals that will hopefully help us to encourage rapid action by the Government. I would also like to ask you that, given that decisions have already been taken, for example, to allow small businesses to benefit from unemployment benefit, how quickly can these proposals, which have already been mentioned, be put into effect? That is the question that immediately arises from the field. I would also like to thank the speakers who have been concerned about the municipal economy. There's a very big emergency. We all know how badly the local economy is doing and how difficult it has been for municipalities to cope with this corona crisis before, as has been the case in the Chamber many times this year, even before exceptional circumstances. It is now widely felt in the municipalities — and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has also drawn attention to this — that yesterday's information on municipal finances was not adequately addressed in the municipalities' needs. And that is why I would have asked when the Minister is present what kind of help and relief you are currently preparing in relation to the situation in the municipal economy. Because the fact is that the municipalities there in the field are implementing and doing things now to resolve this crisis and people [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u23	Mr President! There is a real need for an amending budget, but I too, like Mrs Grahn-Laasonen, am concerned that it is too small at this stage. There are currently 124,000 layoffs due to the corona. The money has been distributed and can be applied for mainly through three periods: Finnvera's guarantees have gone to companies through banks in the form of loans, and business Finland and Ely Centres have been able to collect money. This money has gone into need, and it is actually explained, among other things, by the avalanche of applications that has now come to Business Finland. To date, 5000 applications have already been received as many as 7000 applications are usually received each year. Most of these applications, three quarters, have come from small micro-enterprises with fewer than ten employees. EUR 10000 has been able to apply for a reorientation of activities and then to implement them in 100,000 years. The money itself is very necessary, but the problem is that, just as Mr Grahn-Laasonen said earlier, the budget is far too small, and the Coalition Party has proposed that the money distributed both through Business Finland and through the Ely Centres should be doubled, or in fact a little more, from EUR 200 million to EUR 500 million. We also worry about small business name entrepreneurs, about how they can be supported. In this situation, Mr President, it is also good to see what is being done in other countries at the same time, because they are wrestling with similar problems. In France, for example, a few days ago, a nine-point programme was announced, one of which included direct aid of EUR 1500 to micro-enterprises. I would ask you, Mr Kulmuni: is it also possible for us to give direct support to these smallest entrepreneurs? Secondly, there was also a pay subsidy in such a way that those who would otherwise be laid off or laid off could at least be kept on part-time employment. One thing that comes to mind here too, Mr President, when we support companies, is that it is, of course, intended to keep the company up, but also to keep the workers there, so that we do not end up in financial difficulties. In general, before the changes, people are most concerned about the question of what will happen to me in this situation, and I myself wonder at this point that we must now be careful that the money actually goes there. After all, we have entrepreneurs who take almost all or even all of the pay in the form of dividends, and it is understandable that the payment of dividends should be allowed, but there are also companies who may take advantage of this situation in such a way that, when they receive aid, they will then continue to take on the dividends they had previously thought of, and then the aid does not correspond to its purpose, but is intended to maintain the activities of these companies. Mr President! When I also think about how we support an individual who wonders how I am going to survive, we also need to think about the daily cost of living that he is going to have to face, and of course VAT is one thing that needs to be considered, especially in the case of essential goods, such as food and electricity and electrical energy. Could we, for example, temporarily reduce or even abolish VAT in these areas that all people need as essential goods? Finally, Mr President, I would also like to raise concerns about hospital workers and their equipment, to protect equipment such as masks and masks and equipment of this type, and also, of course, to test equipment. In some ways it seems a little strange that in Finland, in the welfare state, we have to wonder whether we have enough of these necessary supplies in hospitals so that people can work safely and healthyly for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u24	Mr President! Since there are exceptional conditions in the country and every single day the situation changes, how the epidemic is progressing, what consequences it will have in society or in our economy, it is true that, last week, when we have submitted this amending budget to Parliament, a great deal has happened since then. In other words, of course, the government assumes that the Committee on Finance, on the basis of the daily details of the exceptional circumstances, will of course exercise the budgetary powers it has, because a week ago we still did not have all the information we have today, for example, on how many applications have been made to Business Finland and the Ely Centres for this direct corporate funding. And yes, the money channelled through these ely centres in particular is precisely for small companies, business name companies, sole proprietors — there is no need for a limited company to be able to access it. And, of course, in a crisis such as this, the strength of Finnish social security and the Nordic welfare society is emphasised, because we have a strong social security system, people do not fall into total unemployment, but we can now proceed first through layoffs and try to minimise how this crisis can also be managed as economically as possible, so that we do not end up in a wave of bankruptcy or mass unemployment. Mr President! There were also questions as to whether this applies to all companies. Yes, it's meant to be. After all, many employers' and workers' organisations have already exported these matters agreed by the social partners to collective agreements, and hopefully next week there will also be legislation in Parliament that will also bring it into the unorganised field. I think that, at a time of crisis like this, it is certainly not so much a good idea to raise those political disputes, but now everyone wants to work together on this issue as well as possible, so that we can minimise all the harm that this crisis will do in any case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u25	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Kulmun for the answers you have given. It is excellent that the situation of small entrepreneurs is also taken into account. Especially in recent days, they have also sent me a message. They often live very tight, and the situations are very diverse. That is exactly what the Minister said that our social security system is very comprehensive and also flexible, and it is of course particularly important at this time that we use flexibility and always assess situations according to their local circumstances and the situation of the entrepreneur. At the moment, Mr President, Parliament's work is also rhythmic, and there are also many ways of showing that we are living in these exceptional times and that we are protecting each other here means that we are protecting ourselves at the same time. Outside that house, too, everything shows that we are all Finns on the move now, and we want to deal with this situation with as little harm as possible. That is why it is a good thing that we now managed to get this amending budget through this Parliament so quickly, but just as has now been mentioned in many speeches, and the Minister for Finance has also said that the situation has changed since last week, and that is why we need more action. I think it is very important, as Mr Lintilä also said, that further efforts are being made to support business, and that is what we are waiting for. I have every confidence in the creativity of the government itself in this, too, that the different situations in business life will be taken into account. It is very good that this amending budget also facilitates the situation of workers by abolishing the retention period for unemployment benefit and reducing the working conditions. People now have a concern for their livelihood. Many people wonder how I will continue my business in this situation, how I will support my family, how I will organize my children’s home school while I do demanding telework, how I will protect my multi-sick child or family mate in this situation, what will happen to the farm when there are no seasonal workers. There are a lot of questions, and we, Parliament, are expected to answer them, especially from the government of our country. It is good that we are now on the move and we are feverishly considering ways of facilitating different situations. What is also central to the amending budget is that these additional appropriations ensure what is basically at stake here: human health care. Here we have also heard about how, under the leadership of the Ministry, we are also looking into what has been said in this debate today, how we could start the production of health care protective equipment and breathing equipment in Finland. I believe that we Finns, if any, often find solutions to these technical and economic issues. One day we can all be together again in this Chamber without anyone having to wonder if it was a mistake to leave the mask behind.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u26	Mr President! The Government has just decided on a package of EUR 15 billion. Today we have a Government proposal for an amending budget for 2020, EUR 400 million, in a referral debate here in plenary. At the heart of this performance is man. The government guarantees people's health and livelihood. It will also safeguard jobs and the financing of businesses. We are also facing a very challenging global situation here in Finland. The Marin government is determined to take responsibility for a situation in which no Finn is guilty. This abnormal situation is now affecting and will continue to affect even after the acute phase is overcome. At the moment, however, we need to focus on how to act now and how to help Finnish society, companies and employees in the most effective and best possible way at this acute stage. The government will do its utmost to safeguard the labour market, to avoid the bankruptcy of viable companies and to facilitate the position of employees in this difficult situation. This amending budget of EUR 400 million will safeguard the resources of the authorities and increase the budget for business grants. Mr President! Last week the social partners brought their own proposals to the attention of the government. It is now time to thank the social partners for their rapid ability to work things out together. In Finland, it has been customary to act on a tripartite basis, and even in the midst of this crisis, agreement in the triad showed its strength. On the basis of the proposals made by the social partners, the government will, in particular, secure the livelihood of people who are laid off or lose their jobs. The government will also do what it can to make it easier for companies to adapt to the difficult situation. One very important measure in my view is that the government will secure the livelihood of entrepreneurs and freelancers, whatever their form of enterprise, through unemployment benefit. It is also worth mentioning that in all sectors, the financing of businesses will be secured through a number of billion-dollar measures and new direct payments will also be introduced. The government will secure the liquidity of companies over the crisis and thus prevent bankruptcy. Mr President! The government is now proposing this amending budget of EUR 400 million. In this constantly changing situation, it is good to remember that the government is prepared to submit draft amending budgets as necessary within a very short timescale. The Government will assess the budgetary plan in the context of the negotiations in the spending limits debate in April and will assess the need in the subsequent amending budget for 2020 also for other budgetary increases directly resulting from the corona virus and, more broadly, for measures supporting the economy. The local government finances are also under constant surveillance, and the government will support municipalities, if necessary, in the event of an increase in expenditure or a sudden deterioration in tax developments caused by the corona virus situation. I am now very happy to say that the government has reacted very quickly to this abnormal situation and has shown strong concern for every Finnish and every Finnish person's livelihood. The acute crisis work is now being carried out. Afterwork will be done later when the time comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u27	Mr President! Every day when people and countries are isolated or not, it will affect the speed at which this epidemic can spread. Every single day costs a great deal financially and humanly. As a result, more and more questions have been raised as to whether active testing and data collection can facilitate the situation until the medicine or vaccine has been prepared. Today we heard that researchers at the University of Helsinki have developed a test that, according to preliminary data at least, is able to identify the corona infection and those who survived it, even with mild symptoms or without symptoms. These tests may be invaluable during a pandemic because they can screen those who have already established immunity to the disease. We have already received messages from companies that say that it would also be very attractive for them if such information were available, so that it could be known which people can work and move freely without isolation. From a health point of view, too, this is truly valuable information, because it is not necessary for health care staff to be quarantined, at least in the interests of safety, if these tests work, as has now been heard. In any case, we really have to hold on until we get the vaccine, the medicine or the highly developed testing, but now the development work is really tricky. It should be noted that there are areas of growth also during such a global crisis, and now that Finland seems to have such global and societal important solutions under development, it is important to ensure that they are adequately maintained and invested in. It is good that research and technology and testing have been taken into account in the amending budget. We'll have to estimate the intensity to invest in it. Even now it seems that since it costs huge sums of money every day to hold on to the world, the value of such health technology solutions is quite different from the normal situation. There is a race both for health solutions and for the economy. It is also generally much cheaper to prevent and lead with knowledge and test people than to treat people in intensive care. This must also be taken into account in this equation. It must also be assessed whether rapid management, in-depth quarantine, can also be a more economical solution. It has been argued that it will give us time to have better testing and technology in place. It is now clear that there will indeed be more of these solutions everywhere. It must also be noted that, both in the short, medium and long term, we need visibility and a positive vision beyond this crisis. It must be possible now, if ever, for people to have unemployment benefit at home to study if that suits their life situation. This is not the time to stop studying. In order for us to really create a bridge in the post-crisis period, we need an investment in education. Our revitalizing measures must be new creative in the long term. It is clear that the factors resulting from the corona crisis already lead to a shortage of labour in certain sectors, and it is clear that there will also be a shortage of labour in certain sectors after this crisis. We know that there are areas where there has been full employment, and it would now be important to increase the number of starting places and training places so that people can participate fully in the building of society after this crisis, which unfortunately may still take some time. Several universities and universities have opened online education now during the epidemic. Studies should be started remotely online and could continue as local education after the epidemic, for example. This is also important for the mental health of people, and I hope that we will give them the opportunity and not put ourselves in a situation of being inactive at home. In the short term, it is very important, as many here have pointed out very well, that small entrepreneurs and organisations are not being pulled out of the carpet, as this virus is threatening to do. If good intentions and flexibilities are not realised, for example in the rental market, we need to consider legislative means, as has been done in some countries, in order to ensure this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u28	Mr President! When the Emergency Act was introduced last week, it was stated in many speeches in this Chamber that exceptional circumstances call for exceptional measures. The amending budget now under discussion, together with the interest rate measures announced earlier, is one of the largest financial packages in Finland's history, with a total of EUR 15 billion being invested in managing the interest rate crisis. It can therefore be said that exceptional measures have now been introduced in Finland in relation to the economy as well. Many aspects have been raised here today, which should also be kept at the heart of decision-making under exceptional circumstances, because it is in exceptional circumstances that the capacity of society is weighed. The interest rate crisis raises the basic values of the welfare state to a higher value than perhaps ever before. No one should fall on top of nothing in the middle of a pandemic, and it is therefore important that the amending budget includes investments, especially for the most vulnerable. Special groups and the most vulnerable must also be taken into account when providing services for emergency conditions in municipalities. Mr President! It is clear that no one's care must be caught up in a lack of money. The most urgent measures are now aimed at ensuring the adequacy of protective equipment and increasing the testing capacity. The amending budget includes EUR 400 million of direct investment in social security and health care as well as in the maintenance of jobs. These measures are essential if everyone is to be involved even during the crisis. For the next three months there will be a number of facilitations: red tape will be dismantled and social security conditions will be interpreted as flexibly as possible. Mr President! The Finnish health system is now under exceptional pressure, and healthcare professionals across the country are stretching to incredible performances. Here I would like to thank all the front-runners on both sides of the war and the teaching department. Now, if ever it is essential to ensure all the resources it needs on the social side. Nurses and doctors are being introduced to new tasks in order to increase the number of intensive care facilities, especially if necessary. Other diseases don't go away. At the same time, all urgent need for assistance, illness and accidents are treated alongside corona operations. The good news is that every one of us is able to contribute to the adequacy of intensive care facilities and health care resources by strictly following regulations and guidelines now. The less new infections, the less serious illnesses will occur. This now requires that everyone shoulder a common responsibility. So let us take care of our own welfare and that of others by following the instructions given. Mr President! We should remember that, in addition to the acute measures, we must also be prepared for the post-crisis period. That time will come. The traces of the corona virus are being treated for a long time. This amending budget is a good start, but more financial packages are needed, for example, to fill the local government's financial situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u29	Mr President! There is now an amending budget which, together with other government policies, is part of the historic economic package, and the historical situation is also there. We should thank the government for its decisive action in a tight and serious place, even though this is only the beginning. In a difficult situation triggered by the interest rate, three parts can be identified: Firstly, we are facing an acute health crisis. Secondly, our economy has been hit by a sudden shock stop. Thirdly, we need to understand that this disease and its economic effects have a long tail and we are faced with a wider area of reflection on the sustainability and resilience of our economy, i.e. the resilience of all dimensions, from individuals to the global economy. Following these three considerations, three principles can be drawn up for decision-making, which should be taken into account, whether it is the implementation of this amending budget or the preparation of the following: 1) Protect people and health. Care must be taken to ensure that disease progression is effectively restricted and health resources do not run out. Limiting the spread and the effectiveness of treatment is now the most critical issue, but it must also require a very comprehensive test to be carried out in time to effectively dismantle the restrictions. Finland should also take responsibility for developing the vaccine. For these actions, the amending budget provides additional funding, and that is a good thing. EUR 26 million will be reserved for testing equipment and other medical supplies, EUR 4 million will be used to monitor the effectiveness of measures to slow the spread of the corona virus and EUR 5 million will be foreseen for international research and development of the vaccine. In addition to these amounts, provision should be made for even more significant mobilisation of economic and industrial resources to tackle the epidemic. 2) Bridge the economy and livelihood beyond the crisis. The situation in which a large part of society is decided — rightly so — is a financial disaster for many companies, organisations and public operators, and it knows the risk of losing a job for a huge number of people. Of course, the situation is particularly difficult for small service companies, where the rent runs but income flows are congested. Not all the financial and income bridge measures already outlined are directly included in this amending budget, but here too there are quite significant investments in facilitating the financial situation of companies, for example through Business Finland. In addition to direct financing decisions, the entire public sector as an employer, as a contributor to transfers and subsidies and as an important source of procurement, should seek all means to alleviate the financial discipline of people and businesses. 3) Learn from this crisis and build a more resilient and sustainable society. Of course, it is still premature to make a final judgment on the tenacity of Finland and the global economy with regard to a pandemic such as the corona. It may still surprise people with their creative stimuli. However, there is no way that the system has been on a collision course for a long time to the physical limits of climate emissions, land use and biodiversity reduction and is therefore not on a sustainable basis. The silver lining of a terrible pandemic is that it buys us time and opportunity to learn. Climate change, species loss and economic inequality are all huge threats to human health and well-being. Now, in the face of the corona, we are protecting the oldest generations in particular. At the same time as we do this and when we recover from the crisis, we must also remember the young and future generations whose future prosperity we must safeguard. The economic stop must not be a reason to slow down the necessary investment in low carbon and sustainable infrastructure, which is still urgently needed. Once people are moved back from their homes, a lot of work should go into the design and construction of new tracks, sustainable and secure agriculture and all forms of low carbon energy production and industry. All social reforms under way or under consideration from the social welfare model to the state's ownership policy should also be assessed from the point of view of this crisis. This is neither the first nor the last shock we face. It is therefore important to assess the structures that improve the resilience of our society to crisis and which weaken it. However, this review should not only be carried out from a national perspective, but should reflect on how the international community and the EU can jointly respond and better prepare for the various threats. Lessons are also available from this crisis on the basis of exponential growth for us decision-makers. Exponential growth, coupled with the delay between decisions and impacts, creates a situation where there is a need to act proactively on the basis of uncertain information. The fact that about half of this amending budget, 200 million, has been spent on indeterminate expenditure in connection with exceptional circumstances shows how uncertain it is that we are now living with the corona. Such a situation can only be overcome by cooperation and solidarity. Fortunately, Finns have already demonstrated in many ways that there is a capacity and willingness to help and participate. Ensure that all this knowledge and willingness to help can be channelled into the crisis. In any case: strength, wisdom and all support to the government and the authorities in the face of this challenge!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u30	Mr President! Support has been given to the Ely centres and it is hoped that small businesses will be able to make a flexible contribution. It is important to note that simply delaying payments and moving them forward will not help, because, as Minister Lintilä said earlier, if payments move forward, they will come back anyway. Another aspect relates to rentals: a lot of messages have come from entrepreneurs who are also tenants of public entities, such as municipalities. I would encourage municipalities to be flexible in this situation with regard to entrepreneurs in their municipality and entrepreneurs in their own premises, that business will continue after this crisis. Security stocks and security of supply are important issues. Their importance may have been somewhat blurred here and there. When I was on the national defence course in 2012, the preparedness law and security of supply seemed important, but they still seemed very distant, things that you didn't think you'd meet yourself in this job or in your own lifetime at all. Then my main point, the government — there is also one minister here, and I am glad that one minister has been able to join us, but only: information is very important to the public. I am sure that each of us has answered the citizens' alarmed questions this weekend and now in the next few days and weeks, and they will continue to do so. Timely, quick, clear, understandable, clear-cut information is extremely important. It reduces problems, it reduces behavior that is harmful to all of us, and mitigates the symptoms of such situations arise, anxiety and nervousness. The Government will allocate EUR 600000 for communication campaigns and EUR 3 million for the implementation of the citizens' letter. In itself, against these things, against the good things, I have nothing at all; on the contrary, it is good to be informed. However, I would like to add the idea that, when EUR 3 million goes into these citizens' letters, is it in this context during the acute crisis how effective it is to approach the citizens? That letter will be drawn up, proofreaded, the experts consulted, carefully considered what content it is, it will go to the fold, it will go to the print, it will be sent to the provinces, and before it is in the mailbox, it will have gone many days and it may be that the message is very old when it comes to the citizens, and an obsolete message in this situation may even be a security risk. That is why such timely communication should be made more and more in the working media, and I encourage the idea that ministries' press releases, as it were, should be in the form of advertisements and in terms of content in the main media several times a week, and I am sure that media houses would be happy to receive these “advertisements”. The price, I believe, will be quite flexible in this situation. Media houses are also in financial difficulties in this situation. In addition, Article 126 of the Emergency Act. allows for publication obligations, i.e. if the situation persists and the crisis worsens, according to the Emergency Act, the media are obliged to publish press releases quickly, comprehensively and without delay for the entire population, and this card should be kept on board. There is a strong demand for uniform information. For example, school matters all weekend became questions about how to do things, how to do things with and away from students. That there's a need for information.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u31	Mr President! The Finnish Government has shown significant leadership in its actions during these difficult weeks. I would like to thank the government for the enormous work they have done for our citizens. I am also pleased that here in Parliament we have been able to work together in this difficult situation. It is also positive that the social partners have also done well and brought their own proposals quickly to the government and helped to resolve this very exceptional situation in Finland. The people need our unity and thus confidence in the future. We do not yet know what we are facing. However, it is clear that the corona virus is among us and will continue to spread. Our task as decision-makers is to ensure that the spread takes place as controlledly as possible and as slowly as possible in order to maintain the carrying capacity of health services throughout Finland. It is also time to take important economic stimulus measures to help economies, municipalities, businesses, overcome this difficult crisis. Today's first amending budget for the year shows these responsible and rapid actions. The amending budget amounts to almost EUR 400 million. It is important to remember that it goes hand in hand with the measures agreed with the social partners. The total size of these measures is estimated to be up to EUR 15 billion. Mr President! It is clear that the health and life of citizens is now the most important thing. At the same time, however, it is also important that we ensure the economy of our country, the functioning of society, the operating conditions of companies, jobs, employment and people's livelihoods. The National Rescue Package aims to minimise the bankruptcy of Finnish companies, combat the cash crisis and support the livelihood of individuals in a crisis situation. In addition, the conditions for health care will be further strengthened. These support measures are extensive and vital. Support measures will help all businesses, SMEs, freelancers and self-employed people. An entrepreneur will be entitled to unemployment benefit if the operating conditions of the company have deteriorated significantly due to the interest rate. In addition, the situation of workers will be facilitated by, inter alia, temporarily improving the level of unemployment security by abolishing the five days of ownership of the start of unemployment. As far as the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is concerned, the amending budget under discussion focuses on information to citizens, on research into corona virus, both here in Finland and internationally, and on the purchase of testing devices and other medical devices for hospital districts. Medical devices and medical supplies are very important in the care process to keep health services on standby at a good level. The need for supplies is of great concern to us all around Finland at the moment, as is the case in South Karelia in Eksote. On the positive side, the reserve of equipment in the reserve has apparently been opened — at least yesterday I heard it on television. It is now essential that the state secures and manages the supplies and equipment needed by each hospital district. We must not fail here, because the treatment of the epidemic requires a variety of protective equipment and medical supplies, so that patients can be treated in hospitals or in home care for people who need care and care. As the government has said, we will have a number of amending budgets in the near future, thus supporting the various parties across the corona epidemic. The situation in the municipalities has been difficult for a long time. Last year was one of the worst in history, and now the corona virus threatens to crisis many municipalities without further support. Municipalities are considering negotiations, layoffs and even layoffs at the moment. The municipalities are now waiting for action or policies from the government and Parliament to help them in this difficult situation. The abnormal situation has arisen rapidly, action has been taken quickly and laudably in the municipalities. However, the future is uncertain, and municipalities must deal with this both in terms of health care and in terms of the economy. I would like the government to be able to give some guidelines as quickly as possible, how and in what timetable it will help municipalities beyond this difficult time and possibly beyond that. Yesterday we received information,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u32	Mr President! It is very important that, in this exceptional situation, additional funding from the State should also be provided for the acute management of the crisis. As has been said, the funds presented this time will not yet be sufficient, and it would have been a good idea, of course, to have hoped that even greater efforts could already have been made. For example, the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), including some large companies, but in particular small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), is very difficult. In practice, the cash crisis started two weeks ago: demand stopped, and now a really large number of staff have been laid off. Therefore, both the state and the municipalities and all other actors able to do so must make every effort to help these companies so that these now laid off people do not end up unemployed. It's not in anyone's interest. The concern about livelihood is real not only for these workers but also, of course, for entrepreneurs. Many people are concerned with the whole life's work, and it depends on their own home. That is why I also hope that the legal changes that will enable small entrepreneurs, such as freelancers and also business name entrepreneurs, to be able to act as entrepreneurs as well as to be able to benefit from unemployment as quickly as possible. In exceptional times, there is an exceptionally clear need for communication and people must feel that restrictions are fair when they are made. Where there has been a difference and a lack at the moment, there has been a number of tests, and it is good that this amending budget now allocates additional appropriations. However, at the moment when testing is being carried out only in a very limited way, it is very important that, at the same time, we communicate — when we have a lot of cases that certainly have symptoms or are very likely to have corona virus — and give sufficient guidance on how to avoid contact and how to stay home until all risk of infection has been eliminated. Now there is quite a lot of difference in this respect for some. For those who have been diagnosed and tested, the guidelines are strict and good, but for those who do not, there may be an unfortunate difference. That is what I hope for clarity. Children and young people are particularly concerned, and of course adults too, who would need a lot of support even in these exceptional times. In the forthcoming plenary session, in the following areas, we will discuss more about what is happening on the education and early childhood education side with the application regulation of the Emergency Act. However, the municipalities are, and have already been, making a lot of decisions as regards, for example, school meals or early childhood education payments, and I would like to thank the municipalities for their swift action. I would also like to thank all the teachers and early-school educators who, in such an uncertain situation, are taking care of its work, and of course also those parents who have acted in accordance with the recommendations and kept their children at home when they have had the opportunity. I know that it is certainly not easy to do telework at the same time as you take care of your children at home or even next door to help you with your distance school. I would also like to thank the medical staff who, under these exceptional circumstances, are working very hard, and many other professions in critical areas that keep this society running. The work is now not evenly divided, and it will certainly also cause a sense of injustice. What we can do here as decision-makers is to ensure that there is sufficient resources for that work and also protection, for example, as regards the work of those who need protection. One thing I have not yet heard raised here is the livelihood of athletes. This amending budget is now presenting an additional resource for the Arts Promotion Centre, but the additional resources have not yet come to exercise and sport in this context, and I hope that, in the next amending budget and by then, we will also be able to bring to the House amendments to the law that will allow for improvements in the social security of athletes and additional funding for them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u33	Mr President! Finland has faced a very severe national crisis, and this crisis is, of course, also Europe-wide. The resilience and resilience of our society are tested in many ways. The government has now adopted the first amending budget, which allocates appropriations and powers to measures related to this crisis. It is a good thing that it was brought here so quickly for Parliament's debate, and that is what we had the first hearing today in the Committee on Budgets, and I believe that it is also making good progress. I must say that, when this crisis is, of course, a health crisis, a crisis threatening the lives of people, it is also an economic crisis. I must say that, in that sense, this puts our society under a great deal of pressure in two ways. Above all, the mental resilience of the crisis, but also the economic resilience of the crisis is really being tested. Not only has this now, of course, hit those people whose health is at risk and who have already become ill, but also there, on the economic side, businesses and entrepreneurs, Finnish entrepreneurs who are holding up this welfare society, have been the first to face the effects of this crisis. Of course, this is seen most and first in the services sector and services sector, in the tourism and nutrition sector, in the commercial sector. As I am sure all the colleagues in this Chamber have received, I have received very much of the feedback from small micro-entrepreneurs and larger companies, the cries of alarm about how customers have lost now and the workers have been laid off and there is simply no cash flow. To this end, the government has now allocated these various support mechanisms, of which, of course, this business development grant of 150 million from Business Finland and 50 million from Ely Centres are the direct financial aid. Just as we have heard in the Committee on Budgets today, there have been so many applications this weekend that I am sure more money will be needed, and this is not at all the first supplementary budget and amending budget that we will be discussing in this Chamber in the coming weeks and days. We must act together, and I believe that we also have a very strong national consensus that we must save and help entrepreneurs through this most severe crisis, that we should not then go to the point where that business activity is completely over and that these entrepreneurs and their employees will ultimately become unemployed, when this is all over and we are on the loose. This situation must certainly not be allowed to be allowed to happen, and it is therefore good that these elements of support were obtained so quickly, but we still need, of course, new ones. I think it's obvious to everyone. One problem, of course, is how we have enough staff, first of all in business Finland, in ely centres, in unemployment funds, in Kela, how we have enough skilled staff and how quickly we can familiarise ourselves with them, so that all these applications, as far as entrepreneurs and laid-off or redundant workers are concerned, can be dealt with quickly. This is certainly a major challenge, and in the coming weeks it will be escalating for many authorities, and in that sense it is good that this amending budget also allocates certain appropriations to it. Of course, we need a lot of solidarity here, and it is true that almost all these measures, which have now been taken, have been implemented by the municipalities at the forefront. The financial situation of the municipalities was already quite weak, but it must also be said that I am delighted with how good this crisis expertise is in Finnish municipalities, how good it is and how fast it has been able to kick off even large measures and then prepare for this possible and probable spread of the corona virus in its own municipality. It is clear that, at the same time, the municipalities have a great deal of concern about the sustainability of their economies, the inadequate budgets, and it is clear that now the government will have to reflect on this too, and certainly the spending limits debate will have to reflect on how we can help the municipalities to overcome this worst situation and the crisis. It is quite clear that the costs of both the state and the public finances as a whole will increase significantly in the near future, and that is why there will be solutions for them in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u34	Mr President! It is understandable that this first amending budget seeks to make the first additions that safeguard the liquidity of business and strengthen the resources of health care. However, I would have liked this amending budget to have already taken into account the situation in Kela. Fortunately, Kela has finally received confirmation today that their needs for an additional budget have been met and may be taken into account in the next amending budgets. Kela is very sensitive to take on the attacks, even if it is found elsewhere: when no statements made by Kela are listed in the legislative projects, when additional tasks are given to Kela on busy schedules, the effects or costs of which are not known in advance, or the assessment given is not taken seriously. It is understandable that Kela has concerns about whether their situation will be quoted in order to deal with this crisis. Even under normal circumstances, Kela has worked with a tight budget. Now we already know that the current crisis will affect the aid granted by Kela. Infectious daily allowances, sickness allowances, unemployment benefit, general housing allowance, income support — these are all services for which we know the need is rising considerably. The increasing workload of these tasks alone brings a significant additional need for the work volumes of Kela's customer and telephone service, so that customers actually get their decisions and support in time. Even if Kela employees try to protect themselves from an epidemic, benefit handlers and employees in customer service cannot avoid getting sick. In addition to these basic functions of Kela, completely new tasks have already been outlined, such as extended unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs. This is a very good decision and should continue in some form even after the crisis. Kela and the unemployment funds will apparently take care of the payment of this possible change in the law. Very few entrepreneurs are a member of unemployment funds, so the pressure for decisions comes to Kela. Overall, the impact of this project on Kela's operating expenses is difficult to assess yet, but according to current data, the impact would be at least EUR 12 million. I would now have asked the Honourable Government to understand the situation in Kela, but no one, despite the Minister of Education, is present. I hope that the representatives of the government parties will take away the healthy ones, so don't forget Kela. Make sure that Kela is not forgotten when new functions and Kela service menus are planned, let alone additional funding. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u36	Mr President! As a nation, we have faced a common trial. My little grandchild was in intensive care just before the corona crisis. At the same time, he was infected with two viruses, neither of which was corona virus. After 10 years, the doctor said that the child would have been lost. What if the child had suffered during the worst corona surge, would he have been on time or even fit into intensive care? We need a sufficient number of intensive care facilities across the country. My grandson's recovered. We didn't lose him. I have great gratitude for the doctors and nurses who work with their hearts for life. The interest crisis has prompted us all to help, to share, to be flexible, to give to one of his own. The Korona leaves a mark on us and our people, and that mark is not all beautiful. This will also be an ugly mark that we must minimise and prevent. As decision-makers, we must protect a unique, valuable life in an exceptional state caused by the corona. We must also protect and support workers. I would like to thank the government and the authorities for taking responsibility, for their planned and timely action. This first amending budget is really needed. It will ensure the necessary resources for health care. Slowing down and treating the Korona virus will not be caught by funding. We must keep the heart warm and the head cold so that we can also treat other diseases, as was the case with my granddaughter. I thank the government for doing everything it can to ensure that healthy businesses do not go bankrupt because of the interest rate and the Finnish people into mass unemployment. I particularly welcome the support given to small and micro-enterprises. The government is responsible for a situation in which no entrepreneur or employee is guilty. There are already a lot of layoffs, many people have concerns about their livelihoods. It is a matter of securing the financing of businesses and safeguarding jobs, building a bridge over the crisis. I am pleased and convinced of the prompt action taken by the government in the event of exceptional circumstances. These actions receive my full support. It is a pleasure to note that implementation has also started rapidly, for example for Business Finland, which has received a huge number of applications. There should be a sufficient number of applicants. This number of applications shows the possibility of many new beginnings. It is also right to start work on the possibilities of producing the protective equipment needed by the nation itself. This will help both in this current situation and in similar health threats to the future. This will not be the last health threat in this very small, globally networked world. Mr President! During this joint ordeal, Finnish society can show the power of cooperation. Public and private sides blow in the same way. It is important that when the security of supply warehouse is now opened, it should also be supplemented with Finnish production, preferably. Many of us will lose loved ones during this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u37	And now, Mr Marttinen, after which this matter will be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u38	Mr President! The health of our own and of our loved ones is certainly at the top of all of our minds at the moment. The Corona virus epidemic is, above all, a healthy but also a widespread economic crisis globally, Europe-wide and here in Finland. This is also well demonstrated by the fact that, according to today's data, almost 160,000 employees are already in negotiations at national level. So let us talk about very significant amounts. Unfortunately, all the signs seem to indicate that Finland too is going to get worse and the virus is going to hit us very hard too, as it will hit the rest of Europe and also globally. Mr. Speaker! This amending budget is an important first step, first of all to secure sufficient resources for our health workers, to ensure the possibility of combating this virus, protective equipment and so on. What is most important is that at the moment, resources and money are not caught up in the way in which we can combat the virus. But secondly, Mr President, I would like to say that it is very important to draw attention here to the other issue affected by the virus, namely businesses and jobs. It is not only a question of thousands of entrepreneurs going bankrupt without help; it is also a question of saving the jobs of tens or hundreds of thousands of Finns, the jobs of their normal Finnish families and mothers, and that belief in the future, because it is clear that, with such an acute crisis, no healthy company must go bankrupt, and that is what we need to do. It is great and important that the government's efforts are, firstly, to facilitate access to finance for companies, to facilitate the ability of companies to negotiate with their banks that loans can be prolonged, to apply for more time to pay. I also enjoyed the fact that the Financial Supervisory Authority, which supervises our banks, made a decision last week that the solvency rules of Finnish commercial banks should be relaxed, and this will also help to ensure that banks are able to negotiate loan terms with entrepreneurs again. In fact, at this point I would also like to say that, now that the authorities have already come so strongly to the banks, we must also expect the banks to actually use the room for manoeuvre they have been given, that when the ordinary Rauma SME comes to the bank's desk and says that he must be helped to manage this loan, then that help and understanding will actually be found, because that is what these measures have been made for. Mr. Speaker! Secondly, these measures, which the government has already put in place at this point, are, as a general rule, those that make this access to finance easier, but we also have a lot of self-employed people, such as barbers or small operators in the restaurant and hotel sectors, or just such SMEs, which have been hit by this crisis, and it is clear and I think that it is quite unreasonable that, even if the family business has caught up all its assets in the development of the company, then they will be offered additional borrowing in this situation, which in practice no one in this country or in the world has been able to prepare for. That is why I would also like to point out that, in this situation, the government must also urgently prepare for further action. This additional budget is therefore a good start, but we need more action, direct support for SMEs, and I would like to see action on the tax side as well. We have also argued in our own package, for example, that employers' contributions could be temporarily exempted for entrepreneurs. Finally, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that it is a great thing that the VM has now been preparing for the relief of these tax arrangements for entrepreneurs, but I think it would be quite reasonable that, in the context of these changes, this tax payment could be postponed by an increase rather than a 4% rate, which is what the proposal is proposing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2.5 hours reserved for this point at this stage have passed. The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u40	We will now proceed to item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this same sitting. The Court held that
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u41	Mr President! Now we are dealing with an extremely important issue. The amending budget amounts to EUR 389 million, but it is linked to an extremely important package, the price tag of which will be many times higher. One third of all Members have asked to speak on this matter and, of course, I have to ask themselves what I am going to say here in particular. My ambition is to try to tie two things together: the economic consequences of this current corona epidemic and the health consequences. Now there are no representatives of the Government, but I would point out that we did not introduce Article 89 of the Emergency Act last week. ) which states that ‘the government’s draft amending budget submitted to the Council under exceptional circumstances is applicable to the river as the Member So we are moving forward in this amending budget in a traditional way, that is to say normal. Well, from this situation in which this amending budget is now in place, I am consciously using a somewhat glaring phrase: we have introduced the tactics of this country, which has been incinerated in the fight against the corona epidemic. By this I mean that we have an enemy with no specific weapon. For example, the exact weapon would be when in 85 years in Finland we received 95 percent of our population in five weeks, in the face of a so-called sugar cube vaccine at the time of the threat of polio infection, but we do not now have one. Another almost accurate weapon would be if we had tests that were fast, secure, cheap and could be carried out very quickly to hundreds of thousands. This would allow us to find the carriers, to isolate them, and then, for the rest of society, we would not have to go into such drastic restrictive measures as we have now gone. But when we do not have such a situation, we, like other countries, have chosen a model in which we are going very strongly to restrict people's contacts. I personally support this model — and I have been in the last radio debate today, where I have taken the view that there will be even more restrictions today — but we are doing a great deal of damage to our economy. Of course, this is a well thought-out solution in this situation. Despite my medical background, I am as concerned about this economy as I am about this health effect, although of course this goes ahead of health and health care. What will this price tag be about these economic effects? I am very good at this general macro-level assessment. Our national economy is EUR 240 billion. If, for three months now, we cut or cut out a quarter or a third of the daily average of 700 million, then in practice the price tag will be between EUR 15 and EUR 20 billion. The U.S. is making a package with a price tag of $2,000 billion. Taking into account population figures and exchange rates, it would amount to EUR 30 billion in Finland. We are planning 15 billion, which, of course – for example, given that healthcare in the United States is four times more expensive than in Finland – may be sufficient to respond to that same whole. Of course, the most important level — I was just talking about the general level — is the person, the entrepreneur, the professional, the family members there. The question now is how our administration will be able to allocate the enormous aid we are planning to that level of enterprise and to the level of human beings so that its effectiveness, its benefits are as great and fair as possible. This will be this great, great challenge in this whole matter. But, as has been said, this time we have an amending budget package of EUR 389 million, which targets money both for these exceptional circumstances and for the THL and some important aspects of the economy, such as the creative sectors and the housing industry, but as a whole it will be about billions of euros. The impact of this on local government finances has also been assessed. I don't have the guts to say anything myself. We asked Mr Paatero in the Administrative Committee today, but I myself — I am conscious of the word “thinking ” —that the question is that we are sure to lose a billion billion dollars’ tax revenue andexpenditure more than if there were another $2 billion in deficit. This is even a little bolder or larger than what the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has suggested. But, of course, I am very much in favour of this amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u42	Mr President! It is important that the first amending budget of the government is now on the table. There must be a lot of and aggressive use of resources, but, of course, also appropriate measures to prevent, monitor, protect and treat the virus. The model can already be applied for in many countries that, through hard action, have reduced the number of new infections. This costs money, but only pocket money compared to the scenario that we can't deal with the epidemic quickly. Ministers should also immediately investigate and implement direct business subsidies, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises, and therefore prevent otherwise unavoidable future bankruptcies. Business Finland has received the same number of aid applications from companies in less than a week as usual per year, and there are already nearly 100,000 laid-off workers in Uusimaa alone. The investments in companies and their employees are also a direct investment in health and the future, because no one wants a wave of suicides such as the recession of the 1990s and all the other human problems that come with the recession. In such exceptional times, too, we must not cut back on the necessary measures for Finland, such as quality education and research, which are vital for Finland's future. At the same time, we must reduce non-essential, totally secondary expenditure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u43	Mr President! We live in the midst of a crisis that is getting more serious for us every day. Only a week or so ago — and I would like to emphasise, only a week or so ago on Monday — the government announced that Finland was in exceptional circumstances. The following day, Parliament was given the regulations to introduce the Emergency Act, and already on Friday of the same week, the government announced a package of support for businesses and the labour market and a draft amending budget. With an amending budget, the government wants to safeguard people's health, livelihoods and jobs as well as the financing of businesses. No worker or company is responsible for the existing situation, therefore the aid is necessary in these circumstances. In this moment, the government and we in this Parliament have nothing more important to do than support our society through this severe ordeal. Of course, there is a need for funding for this, but also for cooperation, in every sector. It has been a pleasure to see what kind of cooperation has already been undertaken in many areas around Finland. Korona is our common challenge. Mr President! The administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is currently under extreme pressure due to the corona epidemic, especially those who work in health care, in our front line. I would like to thank them very much and wish them well. An increase of 43.8 million is now being proposed for this administrative sector. This funding will ensure that we are doing the best we can with this epidemic situation now and possibly in the future. The increase in appropriations to the operating expenditure of the National Institute for Health and Welfare is also important. This will increase laboratory capacity and in turn require the purchase of various materials and reagents. It should also be noted that, in such a situation, prices are unfortunately increasing. In exceptional circumstances, continuous communication is essential to convey the current situation picture to citizens. The citizens must have access to correct and reliable information, and here I stress the word'reliable'. This is why an increase in the budget allocated to communication is important. This will provide both a citizens' letter to all households and continuous communication on the current situation picture of the corona epidemic for citizens. I would also like to thank the government for the communication so far and for that good and clear. It is important that our hospital districts are better prepared for similar situations in the future. There is now a need to invest in testing equipment and other medical devices. An increase of EUR 26 million in both these costs and the costs of the Emergency Supply Agency is important. In this situation, protective equipment in particular is a critical source of supply. Participation of EUR 5 million in the research and development of the vaccine is also important — an indication that the will to eradicate the corona epidemic is clear. Mr President! Support for businesses, safeguarding the labour market and early funding for the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health are the first and immediate steps in this situation. However, more budgets will be needed. We know that local government finances are already in a challenging situation, and the impact of the corona epidemic on municipalities will be huge — how large, we know no one. The situation in the municipalities must be constantly assessed. It is also assumed that in the near future we will have to carry out structural reforms to ensure the sustainability of public finances. All the same, this amending budget includes the priority actions we need at this stage to create security and conditions for action in a challenging and new situation. There are still many questions and uncertainties, whether they concern individuals, companies or municipalities. There will be more questions every day. In this context, however, I would like to thank the government for its swift action and stress that, even in the crisis, measures must be considered and not hasty.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u44	Mr President, värderade talman! Vi står inför en alldeles unik location då vi i dag tar ställning till en tillagsbudget som har komitti till på grund av endast en fråga: coronaviruset och dess följder. De nästan 400 milionerna som nu föreslås är viktiga tillaggsresurser för att stavja både den ekonomiska och älsomässiga osäkerhet och oro som nu råder. Jag är speciellt glad över tillagsanslagen till social- och älsovårdsministeriet och Institutet för älsa och väffärd, som föreslås få 43.8 million euro. Att ge tilförlitligt information och upplysning till medborgarna ska stå ögt upp på prioritetslistan i rådande situation. Vi ska också satsa på datasystemets function och att upprätthålla labatoriecapaciteten. Av tillagsanslaget anvisas 6 million euro för ett omfattande consortium för forskning som gäller coronavirus epidemi. Anslaget riktas särskilt till utveckling av snabba diagnosmetoder och undersökning av uppkomsten av immunites. Det är viktigt att anslagen för forskning används till att uppfölja effekten av åtgärderna som görs för att bromsa spridningen av coronaviruses. Som ordförande för ricksdagens vaccingrupp ser jag nu med tilförsikt fram estrot att ett vaccin mot coronaviruses snabbt kan tas i bruk.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u45	Mr President, ärade talman! Regeringen har presenterat en viktig och nödvändig tillagsbudget och stödpaket. Tack för det — som från många andra auri i dag. Det absolut viktigaste är att trygga sjukgårdens tillgång på resurser. Det är sjukården och dess personal som står i fronten i vår kamp mot coronaviruses, och ox behövs alla insantser som bara kan fås. Den andra stora utmaningen som följer i den medicinalinska krisens spår är de economiska effekterna. Liquiditssituationen blir avgörande företag, och vi måste på alla sätt se till att företagen får hjälp för att överleva. Samtidigt måste vi också se till att alla medborgares minimum komst är tryggad i detta undantagstillstånd. Här ger jag regeringen en stor euge för att man både reagerar och agerar.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u46	Mr President! We are currently living in a situation which requires enormous efforts from all the players in society, and a number of good and very constructive speeches have already been heard in this Chamber today. I would like to thank all colleagues for that. For its part, the Government has acted responsibly and decisively even in a rapidly changing operating environment, and it is therefore also appropriate to thank the Government for the work that has been done so far for the benefit of all of us Finns. This government's first amending budget has now been submitted to record speed, and the economic support package included in it is of major importance and currently responds to immediate and acute needs. At the same time, it anticipates future challenges for citizens' health, livelihoods, security, business and business conditions. The goal of the Government is to ensure the functioning of the Finnish health system, the resources of the authorities and the work of the Finnish authorities. Our main objective is to ensure care for all those who need it and, on the other hand, to prevent the transition from the wave of lay-offs to mass unemployment. Although many families and households are now living in exceptional circumstances, the smooth running of everyday life must be supported by all possible means. As always in times of crisis, civil society and volunteering play a major role. So let us give it full support as well. Mr President! It is important to increase funding for health care, as its ability to function must be ensured in all circumstances. I would also like to emphasise the safety of health care staff myself. They are currently working under very demanding conditions, working hard. It was great to hear that the warehouses of the Security of Supply Centre are being dismantled and that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Security of Supply Centre together also carry out additional procurements to ensure that the necessary medical supplies and protective equipment are sufficient throughout the country. Ensuring the liquidity of companies is now necessary to avoid a wave of bankruptcy, and the large package of governments responds well to this. In addition, measures to safeguard the livelihood of entrepreneurs are unique. In addition to the flexibility of pension and tax contributions, the extension of unemployment benefit to entrepreneurs in particular will bring immediate assistance to people who are completely deprived of their livelihood. Thanks have also been paid for the opening of the financial assistance service. There's a huge emergency on the field and an endless need for information. The mental endurance of entrepreneurs is now really under test, and it should also be taken seriously. Mr President! As we all know, only the draft amending budget prepared last week will not be enough. It is excellent that the government has clearly signalled that further action will be taken in the decision-making process. The government is committed to supporting municipalities in the midst of the crisis. The municipalities are now responsible for ensuring that our society revolves around and that people are taken care of. A broader assessment of the state of local government finances and the required measures must be prepared as soon as possible. Compensation for corporate tax revenue alone is not enough, as municipalities are already in a very unequal position in principle. Therefore, a local government review is necessary. We will certainly also have to deal with state subsidies, so that the municipalities can avoid massive layoffs, not to mention redundancies. Without state support, however, the Finnish municipal court will not be able to cope now. Life will continue even after this crisis, and therefore the municipalities must be able to take care of skilled staff. People's right to income and social security is a constitutional right which must also be upheld under exceptional circumstances. Therefore, special attention should be paid to Kela's resources in the context of the next amending budget. It is expected that the need for unemployment benefit and income support, sickness and infectious daily allowance and general housing allowance will increase. Such expenditure shall be provided for and the processing of applications shall be ensured. This will require flexibility from our own system in the future. Finally, I would like to say that this crisis is hitting the most vulnerable people in the past. I am concerned about marginalised young people, lonely elderly people, poor people, families in need of child protection, and substance abuse and mental health patients. In exceptional circumstances, when services have to be reduced and resources prioritised, we have a big responsibility to ensure that those who need special support and assistance do not remain alone. We now really need a lot of cooperation between the authorities, the state and the municipalities and our decision-makers across party lines. Mr President! It was impressive how quickly the social partners came to an agreement on the means now being widely implemented by the government. The time in which we live is testing our national economy,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u47	Mr President! The situation is now incomparable from the point of view of both health and the economy. Now the government must give clear language instructions and regulations and the citizens to apply them rigorously. It saves lives now. The amending budget pays attention to the right issues, but we must now ensure that the contributions that can be decoupled are directed so that the impact is as effective as possible. This crisis has now come under control, and it must be done. The government has announced a package of EUR 15 billion to support companies. What does this mean in practice? We're confused about this in the entrepreneurial field. Mika Lintilä said just now that new models are being sought to support small businesses. There's a need for that now. Here’s an example message from Ostrobothnia: ‘Now I’m surprised by this support,what has been promised to entrepreneurs. The Ely Centre is getting money, and there is nothing more to offer than some Business Finland funding, which is of no relevance to the services sector. As a gas station entrepreneur for 20 years and in full front in this mess. The situation is that everything has been laid off and opening hours have been reduced. No development work is being done here to get Business Finland support. We're cutting costs here, and we're in an out-of-control downward spiral. He would have assumed from the speeches that some financial support would be available. We are in distress for reasons beyond our control, and the cure is debt-taking. The Ely Center also thought last week they had something to offer. Today’—as the entrepreneur concerned has explained—‘inquiry results’,there is no doubt about it.’ These are the kind of messages that are coming from all over the world. I'm not blaming anyone. I'm looking for solutions. This appropriation must be increased and, first of all, I would like to call for serious consideration of the criteria for Business Finland support: if development projects are the criterion, then the adjustment of the company's operations on the basis that the company can continue to operate after a sudden halt, there must now be one project that meets the criteria. The second message, in turn, tells us that Finnvera’s guarantee of funding for a financially sound company was limited by the fact that one group of banks said that they had difficulties in obtaining Finnvera’s guarantees. Are there currently differences between banking groups and banks in different positions in Finland? It would be good to have an answer to this. Mr President! The draft supplementary budget is being submitted by the Assembly because the situation is changing all the time, as has been said in this Chamber. In a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, it was mentioned that there will soon be more amending budgets. Future presentations should therefore take into account issues related to security of supply. Access to food is an important part of security of supply and one of the most important things for citizens. It is therefore necessary to ensure labour mobility in a situation where general mobility is restricted. Food production also needs its seasonal workers next summer. Similarly, we need to be even more vigilant in our energy self-sufficiency when the economic impact of the crisis is long and winter comes, Mr President, at regular intervals in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u48	Mr President! Finns are facing an exceptional crisis and exceptional support is needed. It is absolutely essential that the amending budget be brought to Parliament. Thank you to the government, but as the previous speaker said, the situation is still alive, and this proposal is already too small in scale. That is why, in protesting against the amending budget, the Coalition Party leaves seven amendments, which we hope will be taken into account by the government parties. We have to deal with this crisis and it will only be done in cooperation. A huge number of entrepreneurs have come into crisis after the cash flow has stopped. There are problems for companies of all sizes, but especially for small self-employed and business name entrepreneurs. There the situation is truly untenable, and certainly it will not last for many more days. That is why direct support must be provided soon. Entrepreneurs hang on loose, and now we need help. That is why the draft resolution objects to the increase in direct support to EUR 500 million. The wave of bankruptcies must be tackled in every way possible, and further efforts by the government are hoped to save entrepreneurship and jobs and then to create new ones in the future. In other words, support for the Coalition Party from the Parliamentary Group will certainly come. The most essential aspect of this acute crisis is to ensure that health care is functioning, it is essential. I have received very serious messages from former colleagues, health professionals, that staff are urged to save and use protective equipment against normal practice or instructions for use. It's a real emergency. If we want health care to be able to function and care for, then we must ensure that there is sufficient protective equipment. It is the only way to keep health care staff healthy and alive. Health care personnel need all support, adequate protective equipment and also instructions on how to use protective equipment. It is, of course, good to say that support is needed by all those involved in critical areas, and protective equipment is also needed elsewhere, but I am raising the health care staff here. I would like to say here that we have been pleased to see security stocks opened: it is, of course, necessary, but it must be said that it is very serious that security stocks have already had to be opened because of the depletion of protective equipment. It is alarming that there is a shortage of protective equipment already at this stage when the estimated burden of the corona virus on health care is only at the beginning, which means that the epidemic is only just coming up, which means that there is still a very long way to go to the top of the number of people who are sick and need intensive care. What makes this situation serious, Mr President, is that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has not yet given instructions on the use of protective equipment. This was told last weekend by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which means that we are lagging behind. In other words, quick instructions are needed, the Ministry must urgently instruct you to use the protective equipment. This time, when security stocks are used, must be used to make purchases and also to see if the manufacture of protective equipment and various equipment can be started in Finland so that we can get past difficult times. Those difficult times are just coming up. Indeed, it was excellent that European standards for medical supplies should be made available freely at the request of the Commission, and so it is good to speed up the production process. Ultimately, this production must be started by state regulations. Then the government documents on these protective devices, so I have to say that they are not only needed in the medical districts; they are needed in primary health care, there is a shortage, at the corona stations, they are needed in home care. I find it quite serious that the instructions for home care were not to wear mouth protectors until 20.3. when they are the very ones in the most demanding situation. So let me remind you that, in an exceptional situation, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Government, is in charge of health care, and we urgently need to get the instructions in order. Care must also be taken to ensure that other health care functions, because if people do not get treatment now and their condition deteriorates, they will then put a strain on emergency services and other special medical care. That is why it is important that primary health care works, and I suggest that the government encourage and ensure that municipalities use, for example, service vouchers, that basic health care is guaranteed. Finally, I would like to express my concern that this amending budget does not have the resources of the Social Insurance Institution.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u49	Mr President! I was watching my Facebook feed today on my way to the Finance Committee. Grief strikes when you read updates. One writes: “In the past, the decision was correct, only possible but extremely heavy. The entrepreneur’s partner closed down the cafeteria restaurants he ran as a private entrepreneur. Both will be suspended from this date until further notice.’ Another friend updates the hairdresser’s view: ‘If you still understand what the restrictions mean for an entrepreneur’s family,you can see that what partners cannot carry out their business activities,just a three-month closure run of 10000 euro debt,and not talk about the cost of running a clean business. In the business plan we reviewed the threats, which we could not predict.” As an entrepreneur in the cosmetics industry, a third entrepreneur creates an online store, sells courses and gift cards for the future, trying to find ways to get past the corona period. The fourth is the performing artist who has retreated to the cottage to wait for the time to return to work and pay, the fifth tourist freelancer, whose work has been cancelled in the near future. Mr President! This crisis is facing more of our own internal market and its services than previous crises. Unfortunately, this does not remove the fact that the economic crisis is also at hand on the international market. Many measures to support entrepreneurs have already been decided by the government. This draft amending budget contains them, as well as the overall economic package of EUR 15 billion. Business Finland's business development projects and ely centres provide support to various companies to cope with the crisis. The support of the Ely centres is precisely for entrepreneurs with financial and payment difficulties, as Mr Sankelo asked. Business Finland's EUR 127.5 million is also for repairing supply chain disruptions. Changes in social security and unemployment security for entrepreneurs are also intended to facilitate the daily livelihood of freelancers, artists and small entrepreneurs. For many service companies, rent is the highest. I really hope that in this case the mountain bankers will look at the great small interest and are ready for rent relief. The cash flow of many companies is also low, so it may become important to charge for the work done so far, even if the billing date has been agreed further or the end of the contract. In these small actions, I hope that the big players will take the lead. The next amending budget should also be needed soon, as there is still no time to facilitate the economic situation of Kela and the municipalities in this preparation. Municipalities have an important role to play in maintaining services even during an exceptional period, supporting entrepreneurs in the region and acting as a responsible employer. Of course, municipalities are in a different position to meet the challenges of the interest rate, but like the government, I hope that we do not need to start layoffs at this point. The staff will certainly have the flexibility to move on to supporting sectors or tasks where workers are lacking due to increased pressure, for example in social and health care. The core issues of the amending budget are the additions to the urgent expenditure needs of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health as a result of the Corona virus: EUR 12.8 million to the National Institute for Health and Welfare for information and research on the effectiveness of measures to prevent the spread of corona, EUR 5 million to the International Vaccine Study, EUR 26 million to control communicable diseases for medical districts and EUR 26 million to the Supply Security Agency, which unfortunately will only increase its financing needs as prices rise. The proposed amending budget is urgently and urgently needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u50	Mr President, värderade talman! First of all, thank the government for its excellent amending budget. I'm sure there'll be more of these soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u51	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Government for this really necessary amending budget, and just as Mr Strand said earlier, hardly any government, after the wars, has taken such important decisions in such a short period of time as Mr Marin—the Red Mule government. And thank you also for these decisions and for the support of the opposition. National unity is now needed in this crisis. ‘Supportwoman’thereintheLappilaitos’s message andrequested strengthfor all decision-makers,and she said I believe that the government, together with the opposition, has taken the very right path: this is going ahead with public health, but we must now also try to avoid these bankruptcies with all possible support measures for businesses, and I am convinced that this amending budget and also other future support measures will help to overcome this situation. We must now ensure that companies operate and finance them in this acute crisis. Everything has to be done for it. I am concerned that, as this corona crisis is not enough, at the same time in our country, we decision-makers are being influenced through the Internet, through social media, also through disinformation. I have been complaining, for example, about Twitter and other social media channels, how there are claims that even though the borders have been closed, they would be leaking at the moment like a sieve and huge numbers of asylum seekers are arriving in Finland. Such claims are not unambiguously true, and it is the responsibility of every responsible politician to combat this kind of disinformation. Since the government's restrictive measures entered into force on the 19th of March, one asylum seeker has arrived in this country who may have crossed the national border. And here I really hope the unity of the whole Chamber that we speak with facts, because the facts, the open communication and the keeping in the truth are the things that ensure the unity of that nation and that this demanding crisis, too, can be overcome together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u52	Mr President! It is responsible to make money for bad days. Those bad days are here today. It is the right time to make adequate targeted additions so that Finland and the Finns can overcome this crisis. We now need good, transparent communication, restrictions on people's protection and security, effective health care and a rescue package for businesses so that healthy businesses do not fall and people lose their jobs and livelihoods. First, I'm gonna get out of the mess. Adequate resources for THL are essential if we are to have a sufficient and correct picture of the situation and a knowledge base. In order to manage the progression of the disease, it is necessary to provide professionals and citizens with up-to-date information on the prevention of the epidemic, the situation of the spread of the disease and its management. You also need to know how to guide people to the right information. Could we now think of a national campaign for advice numbers so that the emergency number 112 does not block up? Funding is also needed in health care for adequate testing capacity, the purchase of protective equipment, care and, in particular, the safeguarding of intensive care. In particular, testing patients in need of hospitalisation, health care and care professionals in all situations must be ensured. Similarly, protective equipment must be provided in such a way as to meet the needs of both specialised medical care and primary health care, as well as those working with elderly people in home care and other at-risk groups. Their correct use must also be instructed. The crisis has shown that our society is dependent on many far-off supplies and spare parts and, during the crisis, their availability is deteriorating and prices are rising. I hope that, in this situation, we will be able to raise the production of Finnish companies in order to ensure sufficient self-sufficiency and security of supply on this side too. As far as protection is concerned, I also welcome the fact that the research and development of the vaccine is funded in this draft amending budget. The Coalition also proposes doubling the increase in the unidentifiable expenditure related to exceptional circumstances, so that the crisis can be managed in a flexible manner. Of course, such an increase will require Parliament's information on the use of the money, but it will provide the necessary room for manoeuvre and flexibility for the rapid need for the situation. We would also like to remind you of the possibilities offered by the service vouchers. Elderly people who are sheltered from the disease, who remain at home and other at risk groups should be supported by a service voucher, which will be able to obtain, for example, home delivery services for medicines and food. Municipalities should issue bills to those who otherwise are not in a position to get help home. In addition to these wars, the municipal court should also be prepared for the needs of the teaching side. In the second paragraph, I will take the floor separately, so I will not go into it any further in this context, but I will raise the issue of the survival of the municipalities more broadly. Because it is in a critical situation at the moment. The Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities estimates that the economic situation of municipalities will deteriorate by up to EUR 1.5 billion as expenditure increases and revenue collapses in this crisis situation. If the municipal court was already in an exceptionally difficult situation, the outlook is difficult. The obligations of municipalities must be assessed against the new situation and, overall, it is clear that municipalities urgently need a crisis package. Additional resources are also needed for security, as the tasks of the police may increase rapidly in exceptional circumstances. Similarly, additional expenditure is likely to be incurred by rescue services and should be provided for, and this should therefore be taken into account in future budgetary needs. The arts, culture and sports and sports sectors must also be remembered. The situation is also strongly reflected in them. In other words, this really extends very widely to all sectors of society. Mr President! Finally, I would like to raise one of the most critical issues in addition to health, namely the issue of companies. The Coalition Party proposes significant increases, i.e. an additional EUR 200 million proposed by the Government to be increased to EUR 500 million in support of companies. There is now a need for strong and significant support measures to have an impact. There are problems for companies of all sizes, and therefore the different situations and needs of companies of different sizes and sectors must be identified, including sole entrepreneurs and business name entrepreneurs. You can't let healthy businesses fall. People's jobs and livelihoods must be secured and companies helped through difficult times.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u53	Mr President! From Mr Ikonen, with wise words in mind, how we can support companies, but this is such a different situation and a different crisis from what we have had, that we have not been able to prepare in a certain way. We need to be able to detect entrepreneurs here, we need to be able to notice employees, then we have this municipal sector, of which Ikonen also mentioned, so this whole package is perhaps a completely unknown, however, which, as I said, cannot be prepared for, and situations vary every day. In addition, when you follow what happens in neighbouring countries, what happens in Europe, China, the United States, what kind of actions each of these countries is doing or what happens in all these countries and in which direction they go, you must of course be careful to evaluate them. I believe that there will still be many, unfortunately many, amending budgets in this Chamber, and I am sure that the government will also have to think very carefully about the stage at which they will be given, and to prepare itself for it and in that way also to think about the next steps. More specifically, of course, I do not know what the assembly is going to present now — that is where the part came from — but I am sure that they will also be the ones that the government will then assess and wonder whether there are any proposals that could already be better prepared for the future. What I am worried about, of course, along with these companies is the situation in the municipalities. We always appeal and the government appeals to the municipalities to what is done there and what is done there, but of course it is not enough simply to appeal when things come to decision-making there, to which the municipalities must also react. Since we as decision-makers know that we must react quickly then, of course, in this house we try in every way to consider the municipalities. This is certainly the worst crisis there has been in decades. It is therefore hoped that we, as representatives, will be able to prepare as well as possible and give answers to the citizens, but it must be said, at least ourselves, that this kind of bludgeoning and such questions and suggestions from the citizens has not come up for anything in this period. They come through social media, they come in email, there are calls, and we are unable to respond to all of us, but we are trying to dig up information from ministries and government and from all possible sources. People are really in need of information. It applies to entrepreneurs as well as to people who may be laid off or even laid off. So now, in a certain way, we need to prepare, but then we also need to be patient. We will be able to look at these proposals in peace, and they will also be well dealt with here. Mr President! Finally, I would also like to say that it is inevitable that the question of how large the deficit in the Finnish government budget will be this year will be. It is, of course, something that should not be stared at now, when the crisis is being resolved, we are in the crisis, but, as I said, we must look ahead and prepare, and we must also keep in mind the situation at all times, how, when this crisis comes to light, how we will get involved in the desired growth as quickly as possible, and in what way the state budget will then be brought into balance. We still have a need for a number of reforms. There was a lot of talk about reform last season. That need for these reforms has not disappeared, and I believe that this crisis will also help to speed up the need to bring about their changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u54	Mr President! In this supplementary budget debate, of course, the focus will be on economic issues, but I would like to say at the outset that health is everything a and o and health is the top in the government's management of this crisis. But we must see as responsible decision-makers for the future, until 2030 and beyond, and this amending budget, the support package presented by the government, is a sort of bridge over this crisis. Well, the challenge here is, of course, that no one knows how long this crisis will last, so it is practically impossible to estimate the length of its bridge yet, but perhaps now it is a fundamental stone to it. Mr President! Especially in the early stages of the crisis, the tourism and restaurant sector is facing major problems. The rents are still running, staff costs are running, but the cash flow is zero. This is a major challenge at this early stage, and that is why we have now presented support measures, but it is true that more is certainly needed. I am pleased that the government has been able to make rapid decisions and present them whenever new viable aids or other relief measures have been made. And for that, I would also like to thank the opposition for the fact that, in the face of this common crisis, the opposition is in many ways blackmailing the government. I would like to thank the representatives of the opposition for coming up with concrete proposals. Then the ministries will be able to find out whether or not they are genuinely capable of working, but about the blackmailer’s role — although there are now very many ways in the same row and on the same front — I would like to thank the opposition and also for the proposals that have come out of it. It is clear that, for example, the lessee who is a large expense to many small companies or entrepreneurs should be relieved now, and not only can the government help, but I would also appeal to these large real estate management funds and other companies, and I would like them to take into account this crisis, which many small companies have, and to see a little further away whether it is in the interests of such a large company that the tenant is unable to pay rents and then, in a short time, there will be no tenant who will pay for it there. In other words, I would like to see the spirit and responsibility of these big players, such as the owners of various shopping centres. As far as Finland's economy is concerned — representative Ovaska rightly painted a vision of the future here in the past — so we also have to rebuild and then rebalance the economy. Those fundamental problems in our system haven't gone anywhere. They may now have to be put aside for a while, but they must be remembered and kept in mind, because more and more in the future we will need not only flexibility but also structures that respond more quickly to different crises. This crisis is not going to be the last. We can get over this and move on, but there will always be new crises in the history of mankind, and they will work together, as has always been done in this country, also towards better times. I would hope that, when we come to such concrete recovery measures, we will be able to find enough projects which, not only then, will generate employment at the construction stage, but also further into the future, will be highly employable. And this amending budget is now a first step not only in this consideration of healthcare costs but also, as it were, in the first steps of intervention. Unfortunately, however, we now need too many of these, and we welcome all the ideas of the opposition. The way and the style in which, as it were, there was a consensus on the big picture, even though there may have been differing opinions on some policy issues... I think this big picture is now in order in this country and in this room. We understand to put aside such political bickering and focus on the real things. I am sure that we will get through this, just as the Prime Minister has said.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u55	Mr President! Many Finnish companies are now in a very serious situation. Many small companies, like larger companies, even struggle to survive. Therefore, in this situation, it is extremely important that we, as decision-makers, ensure that those companies in which this corona virus has caused no activity other than having to make protective solutions, perhaps teleworking solutions, be able to continue their business as normally as possible and thus keep the wheels of the Finnish economy running as well. We must also ensure that, despite the necessary restrictions on this movement, we can also open up routes for companies to have employees so that their business can run. But we certainly have the greatest concern about the thousands of Finnish companies and thousands of Finnish companies, different sizes of companies, where cash flow is almost completely eliminated or, in the worst case, completely exhausted. The action is halted, the expenses run, and it is not right to give an answer to this uncertainty. We all have the same situation that we cannot know in this Chamber how long this crisis will continue. If we had any idea of it, it would be much easier to give answers to the questions that we are being asked, and the same situation of uncertainty — and one might say that in an even worse situation when incomes have stopped and the economy is in crisis — there are many companies. There are now necessary measures to try to save the company's business when this crisis is over, and although we are always concerned that layoffs are a bad thing in themselves, it is of course better in this situation to lay off staff on a fixed-term basis and then the state comes against these workers with the removal or reduction of the days of ownership and thus to ensure that a healthy Finnish company does not go bankrupt in this crisis situation. It is now up to our decision-makers to ensure that, for our part, we do everything possible to prevent any healthy Finnish company from going bankrupt, and that is why I would like to thank — although there are no ministers here at the moment — for the rapid reaction of the government in particular. In this amending budget, the main focus is now on facilitating the financial situation of companies and, in particular, on funding for Business Finland and the Ely Centres, which provide direct support, mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises. There is then a separate financial package that enables Finnvera to guarantee loans to companies up to 80% in this situation, but the main focus of this amending budget is now on the amount that will be increased, EUR 150 million, for Business Finland to support research, development and innovation activities in companies in this situation. They have already created a finished product, and they have already been able to apply for it before this appropriation has been granted, and we know that there has been a lot of applications. It says that the product itself is about the right thing to do, because there is demand, but this product is targeted at limited companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, and then 50 million is being presented to Ely Centres to support development projects, and this money would then be directed at small companies, other than limited companies, i.e. the smallest companies operating under the name and in the form of partnerships. What is still a question mark is what kind of financial product and aid product this money distributed by ely centres is, but it is extremely important that we make this product available as soon as possible and that it should be able to respond to this extreme distress that is now in these smallest companies. It is about the livelihood of an entrepreneur, daily bread, but also about the livelihood of workers. I also want to take,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u56	Mr President! Measures have been taken to prevent the spread of the Corona virus, which in many ways limit the fundamental rights of citizens. Based on expert estimates, the capacity of health care may even be too high as a result of the spread of the corona. It should be recognised that the long-standing weakening of social and health resources and the privatisation of public services are a key reason why the capacity of health care cannot now be fully trusted. It is not just a question of the adequacy of protective equipment, which we are talking about a lot. The wage development of staff has been weak, staff shortages have worsened and the work has become increasingly heavy. Work is being done under conditions which are increasingly dangerous, not only because of this acute infectious disease. Women account for 90% of the labour force in the sector. Wages in the sector are significantly lower than those in male-dominated sectors at the same level of education. In the local government sector, the development of average earnings for regular working hours has been significantly weaker than in the private sector and the state. The salary of a related nurse is EUR 2095 per job and the salary of a nurse is EUR 2445 per job. These salaries do not correspond to the demanding nature of the work. The care sector needs experts that are suitable for the profession now and in the future. The attractiveness of the sector has decreased and the sector is moving on to other tasks and abroad. Of the 320 000 educated, 72000 work elsewhere, of which 40,000 work in a completely different field. Mr President! Collective bargaining in the public sector is under way. In addition to the 3,3 % wage increases in export sectors, Tehy and SuPer aim to have a separate wage equality programme. The aim is to increase wages by 1.8% a year more than male-dominated sectors for 10 years. The demand is a very moderate wage lag and, given the working conditions, a very moderate one. The gender equality programme would cost the state between EUR 100 million and EUR 150 million per year. This is not a large sum when we look at the financial contributions that the government has now launched and is launching. The amount required to raise the salaries of carers from the much-speaking 15 billion would be less than 1%. New Zealand, for example, has decided to raise the salaries of women-dominated social services by increasing the annual earnings of full-time workers by around EUR 3000 per year. The total cost is about EUR 1.3 billion. Germany has decided in March 2019 to increase all public sector salaries by 8%, at least EUR 240 per month. In addition, the parties agreed to raise the basic salary of carers by EUR 120 to increase the attractiveness of the sector. At the beginning of 19, trained care workers also received EUR 50 and at the beginning of this year another EUR 50. The cost impact of this German package is EUR 7 billion. Mr President! It would therefore be important for the government in Finland too to have a strong influence as part of the resolution of the corona crisis in favour of a pay solution for carers that can take their legitimate demands forward. The next amending budget should provide sufficient money for this. It would also be wise to point out a substantial temporary wage increase for those working in the front line of the corona crisis. The regulations adopted by the government will allow the rights of the staff in the field of social services to be respected if this is necessary to resolve the crisis. An implementing regulation on the obligation to work is apparently still coming. The pressure is high and they're growing. For example, Spain has reported that the pressures experienced by nurses even lead to post-war stress disorders. Adequate wage increases and other improvements in working conditions are now needed to ensure that social welfare and health care staff in Finland are able to cope with the corona crisis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u57	Mr President! There has been a long, thorough debate here today, in a dignified spirit and in a spirit of unanimity, on this draft amending budget, which has been quickly produced by the government. All those who have spoken have recognised the nature of this crisis and want to achieve it as effectively as possible. Of course, the core is health care and ensuring its resources, but yes, this is also the background — and we all recognise it — to the crisis of the entire economic system, of the functioning of the economy as a whole. This is a very difficult situation. This compromise or consensus reached by the social partners reflects the collective spirit that now exists here in Finland, and is in common. And I understand that this very large package, which is now about to be created — a price category of up to EUR 15 billion in its overall impact — is striking in its scale, and it is wonderful that we are able to seize this process with such serious resources. That is exactly what is needed here, and it is based very far on the proposals that the social partners in their own presentations have made. I remained a little concerned about that objection to the fact that the resources earmarked for this amending budget are inadequate. I do not dare to judge whether the coalition is right in these calculations, what they are doing, but the government is also well aware that we cannot anticipate that continuation in this process, and has already been mentally prepared for the fact that supplementary budgets are still coming to us in the course of this crisis, and this will then be identified along the way. I cannot say whether this is where the objection should be. It may have its own political significance, but that is it. In the course of this day, references have also been made to situations and examples in other countries and to the efforts made in different countries — such as France, France, France, etc. — and there are few different procedures in different countries. Of course, one large group is not only limited companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are now included in these large aid packages, but also smaller entrepreneurs — we have 180,000 professionals, sole entrepreneurs, and their situation is extremely critical. It is a great thing that we are trying to join forces, not only now that the government has made a significant contribution to the budget, but also so that it is required that the obligations of different types of creditors should be somewhat limited: the banks have been urged to do so if we do not take up the claims that certain payments should be delayed to the very last. The tax authorities are prepared to take into account the fact that delays are taking place. There is also a response to the fact that the deadlines do not apply. And one block in which much could be done is certainly also the landlords. Now, too, the question is that in rentals it would also be good for landlords to be aware of the situation that when a lot of single entrepreneurs, for example, and especially, are in a situation where business is under and rents should be carried out, this possibility of burden sharing should be taken into account. For example, I have information about Spain that it has been done on a wider scale in such a way — this example is now from the hairdressing industry — that the landlords have deliberately met in the hairdressing industry by halving the rent, that is to say, this burden is shared together: this entrepreneur does not have to pay this rent liability when there is simply no business, the customers simply are not fully involved, and then the lessor also comes here on the other side. It is precisely this kind of collusion that I would like to see in Finland too, that we may then not have someone to disassemble everything in this critical situation, but that this burden really is being carried together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u58	Mr President! As has been said on many occasions here today: we are dealing with a very serious issue, and here is the place for action. The Corona virus epidemic has had an unprecedented impact on the lives of all of us as well as on the world economy, and that is why it is good to react in Finland as well. There is an amending budget in this debate and it is more than welcome in this situation, so thank you very much to the government and the ministers concerned. This draft amending budget is an initial proposal for the coming weeks. Proposals for appropriations in the amending budget are only necessary for action and new proposals will soon be coming. I also believe that they are relevant to the Finnish economy and, above all, to that part of the municipality. Not only thank the government, but also, like others, thank the social partners, who had very good proposals, and the government then took them on board for its part. Mr President! The government assumes that the state of health of citizens with regard to the corona virus will be safeguarded by all possible means. The conditions for health and medical care, both for staff and for materials and equipment, must also be ensured, which is necessary to knock out or at least weaken the corona virus. The amending budget contains budget proposals for nearly EUR 400 million. Overall, the aid package amounts to around EUR 15 billion, which includes various measures for business subsidies, taxation, public sector budget increases and increased guarantees for Finnvera's domestic loans. The security of supply has already been raised here, and I will also raise it myself. It plays a very important role in safeguarding the operating conditions of the various sectors of society, and there is a need for additional funding there too, which has also been taken into account in this amending budget. It is important to ensure that SMEs continue to operate, which will ensure that workers continue to work. I hope that the companies will be responsible in cooperation with the employees in order to continue the business without any major disruption. On the other hand, care must be taken to secure the livelihood of workers and small entrepreneurs in the event of unemployment. Unemployment funds and Kela will be very tight with regard to the personnel, so I assume that additional funding will be allocated to Kela in the next budget or perhaps a little earlier. The local government finances are not at a good level and municipalities need to finance health and health care services. This must also be taken into account in the future. After all, we have already received indications from the Minister of Local Government as to how the state of local government finances will be secured. I would also like to make my point, and my hope is that when companies are supported by taxpayers' money, they will not be increased in dividends and performance fees for those companies that have received State aid for their activities. I attach great importance to this social responsibility. I believe that there is good cooperation in this House, and I hope that it will continue in this context among the opposition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u59	Mr President! It is important that we share responsibility for a situation in which no Finnish or Finnish employee or entrepreneur is guilty under any circumstances. In particular, thanks to the Government's rapid response, both in the preparation of emergency legislation and in the amending budget that is now being adopted, which aims to ensure the ability of companies to function, Finnish jobs, people's livelihoods and, of course, the functioning of the Finnish health system. In this context, it is also worth thanking the social partners, as well as many others, for reaching an agreement on a timely basis. Many municipalities would have liked this agreement to have reached the public sector as well. It would therefore be important to take a decision as a matter of urgency to put the agreement between the social partners into practice. There is therefore some uncertainty about the timetable and implementation of the measures by us decision-makers and, in particular, by companies. It is important that, in this situation, we also provide an additional amount of almost EUR 10 million in the budget for both Raja, the rescue services and the police. Internal security and safety in everyday life play an important role in the existence of exceptional legislation, and the resources for the work of the authorities must be secured, and this will then provide additional resources for field work. The Government's amending budget proposal today, the EUR 15 billion financial package, is particularly important in this acute crisis. Increasing Finnvera's funding mandates, raising Business Finland's direct corporate financing and increasing support for Ely Centres' business development projects are important measures to save Finnish work and companies. With the additional powers, we also need to look after the resources to deal with business finance applications, and many of the speeches have also pointed out that, in this situation, it may be necessary to review the criteria for granting business finance. Mr President! Local government finances are already in crisis without emergency conditions. Local government's deficit accounts and negotiations have been commonplace in recent years. In many municipalities yesterday, negotiations were launched at government meetings, and in a large number of municipalities they cannot be expected to enter into a debate on spending limits. Municipalities are at very different starting points. It is quite clear that temporary lay-offs are required. Dismissals must be avoided at all costs, as the Prime Minister has well said. When sports and cultural institutions are closed, a large proportion of employees are left without jobs when schools and kindergartens close. At the same time, it is also necessary to clarify with the staff the tasks that emergency conditions will entail in order to enable us to cope with as few layoffs as possible at the municipal level. In particular, it is important for municipalities to compensate for the loss of tax revenue and the projected increase in social welfare expenditure during the crisis period. However, municipal services are the foundation of Finnish well-being and it is now important to provide financial support to municipalities under these exceptional circumstances, which affect the everyday life of everyone in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u60	Mr President! It is very important that, in addition to the actual treatment of this disease, we also overcome the economic effects that this will have — so that viable companies will overcome this recession and so that as many Finns as possible have a job even after this crisis. There is already a good start here, and there is also a good basis in the amending budget, although there is still a need to increase the appropriations, particularly in the area of business subsidies. Mr President! However, I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that important decisions have already been taken here in relation to lay-offs and these decisions are largely very good, i.e. speeding up the period from 14 to 5 days when lay-offs can be made, and, on the other hand, the worker who is laid off can receive the lay-off allowance without any time limit and hopefully also receive it as soon as possible. This is a good starting point, as is the fact that, in this situation, temporary staff can also be laid off and that there will also be an opportunity for self-employed workers and freelancers to benefit from unemployment benefits. These are all very important decisions from the point of view of people's livelihood. But, Mr President, there is such a pitfall in this lay-off decision that I hope it will not go so far as to make it possible, through the TES, to derogate from the 5-day rule. Because if that bill is to be recorded in such a way that the possibility of an exception exists for TES, then it means that all TES must be covered by this 5-day rule and may well be — and certainly if so — that it cannot be written in all TES at this stage, and if it does, then companies and employees will be in an unequal position. In other words, it is extremely important that this should come to everyone comprehensively and that, in such an exceptional situation, the law should go over the TES, so that we ensure that the situation is fair for all, that we help viable companies to overcome the recession and, at the same time, what is most important here, that workers also have a job left. In other words, I hope that a solution will then be found which now sees that this is such a difficult situation that we need to go without any sector-specific exceptions and twists in order to achieve the best possible result.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u61	Ärade Herr Talman! ‘Dertyenunderligkänsla,inteförattjagharnågotärendeillSverige,mend jansändåkonstigtantitkennaåkadit. “ Det rassa dill mig på Åland haromdage. Jag tror att alla har haft valddigt mycket och många tankar den senaste veckan. Undantagstillstånd råder i dessa coronatider. Regeringen har vidtagit kraftiga åtgärder för att man vill säkerstalla att bilderna från norra Italien inte ska behöva uppstå i Finland. Underneath Ilnder har nu vidtagit likanande åtgärder. Följden av coronaviruset och de åtgärder som vidtagits är att vi kommer att få en kraftig small mot economist. Egenföretagare och småföretagare har fått se omsättningen och salsaflödena torka upp. Stora företag kämpar också med liquidtetsproblem. Vissa branscher är mer dragbade än andra, vivi branscher har helt you kill omsättningen. Många frilansare har fått alla saker avbokade. Jag tror att vi under bull drunker någon när och kor som redan dramats eller kommer dramas economist. Därför behövs nu en brandkårsutryckning för economist på mot corona i början på förra veckan. Ärade Herr Talman! Regeringen presenterade i fredags ett packaget på 15 billion euro till stöd för företag i oika storlekar samt att trygga under pineskors utkomst och grundtrygghet om man blir permitterad eller av med jobbet. En del av de insitserna finns redan med i denna tillagsbudget som har beretts i expressfart av regeringen. Det är mycket bra insantser jag stöder fullt ut. Det är redan det andra packages och ett tredje packages förbereds redan. De ekoniska insetser som nu görs är så stora att det så klart inte finns finnsierat i någon ursprunglig statsbudget. Normalt är jag för att man ska hålla hårt i slantarna, men i detta läge skulle det vara oansvarigt att inte smälla allt som finns i plånboken i bordet. Det skullle var dumsnålt. För om det inte görs kommer företag och arbetstagare inte orka över svackan. Massarbetslöshet och misär blir i så fall följden. Även om statsiktigt skulle ha sparat, skulle man få betala tillbaka det med en långvarig ekonomsk kris effectersom de företag som gått under och de arbetstagarra som hamnat i knipa inte skulle kunna vaa med då ekonom de företag som gått under och de arbetstagarna som hamnat i knipa inte skulle vaa med då ekonomn börjar ddra igen. För kommer börja dr igen, och då vil vi att permitteringarna och uppsägningarna ska kunna dras tillbaka så fort som vöjligt. Ärade Herr Talman! Den ox krissen kommer inte relätt för någon. Den kommer inte ta slut i morgon eller velcka. Det kommer krävas mycket tålamod. Det kommer att vala lätt att bli nedstamd, och en ekonomisk kris som är allvarlig i sig kommer kännas kannas kannas känske änske ännu näär man inte på samma sätt kan vara tillsammans och lä enkelt samlas och prata om de problemmen som man har. Vi är alla i den korsammans, och vi kommer att ta oss igenom den tillsammans. Vi kommer alla sannolikt känna någon eller många som blir permitterade. Vi kommer drunken manniskor som behover gråta och vice ledsna. Därför är det också extra viktigt att stalla upp för varandra. Även om man inte träffas på samma sätt så är det viktigt att ringa och hålla kontakten med varandra, att inte ge upp Hoppet eller framtidstron. Det kommer ta slut aven om det inte är i morgon. Ärade Herr Talman! En kris gör också att man fundar extra mycket på vad som är viktigt för en. Det är fantasticskt att se överallt i vårt samhalle hur massor av Människor ställer upp för varandra. I trapphuset till min övernattningslägenhet i Helsingfors finns TVå stycken lappar uppsata där man erbjuder äldre och behövande hjälp med att ämta livsmedel eller you give från butiken. Utanför det lokala bagriet köar människor med TVå meters avstånd och respekterar de anvisningar man fått, och man specterar varandra. Många restaurant på Åland och runt om i Finland erbjuder hemleverans eller take away av och middagar både till vardag och till fest. Överallt ser vi initialitiv och påhittiga idéer som hjälper varandra att ta oss igenom denna tid av undantagstillstånd. Det visar att vårt samhalle är starkt. De rauh företagen behöver dock inte enbart stöd genom tillagsbudgetar för att hålla ekonomin igång. De behöver stöd och de behöver att alla tar sitt ansvar att effecter sin egen förmåga stöda sitt lokalsamhälle för att hålla ekonomin igång. En ämtlund från den lokala restaurangen är arv många bra alternativ. Irade the Talman! Vårt samhalle har variety med om kriser förr. Vi kommer ta oss igenom också detta. Även om det kunns overkligt eller som en film man bara skulle grain stanga av i det kedet är det viktigt att nu inte kill gnistan. Filmen kommer ta slut och samhället kommer återgå till ett normalt tilstånd igen. Tillsammans är är starka.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u62	Mr President! The police are on the front line in the fight against corona with health care. The police safeguard the social order and it is particularly important to maintain it in exceptional circumstances. In particular, in field operations, the police cannot avoid contact with the customer base, and sometimes those contacts can get very close. It should also be borne in mind that, especially in the police community, care for personal hygiene is often not even at an unavoidable level. The fight against viruses is not the first one in mind, nor is it the last one. As a result, the police profession is one of the most vulnerable to infection. President! We simply need to secure the police. It is not enough just to share personal protective equipment. They must also be used with caution in every place where they cannot be used, or the protective equipment will once and for all run out. However, it is far from always possible to predict in advance what instruments the task may need. Even critical situations often come unexpectedly and quickly. Once again, that risk of infection is essential. The lack of human resources for the police will now be frighteningly strong in this situation. It is practically impossible to place the entire shift in quarantine if one falls ill. In the same way, it is completely impossible to isolate the work spaces where the sick person has been. Everyone understands what this means on a practical level. The same applies to vehicles. It is also impossible, because of the limited resources available, to keep the occupation of the groups in the same way so that workers are not cross-used on other shifts. There's always a deficiency somewhere that needs to be patched up in some way. If there were enough resources, this would at least be manageable at some level. At the moment, the building of police reserves should be in full swing. You can't expect or expect the worst to fall on you. Getting the retired police back to work doesn't happen overnight either. It is necessary to identify those police officers who can carry out field missions. The same applies to the transport police. The need for support functions is also emphasised in such situations. The patrols use the same police cars from one shift to the next. The exchange is practically always on the flight. However, cars must now be disinfected several times in turn. There must be sufficient time for cleaning and it must be done with sufficient care. This must also be taken into account when it comes to resources, and there is one point that could be dealt with with with these support measures: someone else would do the car disinfection, while also reducing the risk of infection by the police. In this situation, the importance of the maintenance of the equipment cannot be overemphasized in any way. Of course, it is clear that if the virus can spread to one police station by force, it will paralyze the entire police activity in that area. Such a situation would be very difficult to repair with the police resources of neighbouring districts. It would only lead to further paralysis. I think that it is completely pointless to begin to describe a situation in which, in this totally exceptional situation, we would not have a functioning police force. Everyone can imagine it for themselves at least on some level. It must also be understood that there are very similar situations in emergency care and rescue operations and the Border Guard, but they allow a little better control of customer contacts and, to some extent, more predictable situations than the police. However, it should be noted that in Spain, for example, 4,000 nursing workers have already fallen ill. Mr President! The government has put forward additional funding to the police in this situation of 5.6 million. For the above reasons, this is not enough, as the fleet will now be taking its share. In this meeting, we have proposed an additional 10,6 million, and that would be the kind of money that the police could use at this stage and in this situation to secure their activities. In this battle — as in all battles in general — the front line must be kept unbreakable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u63	Mr President! A few comments on my part. Firstly, it is admirable that the government has reacted quickly to this situation and I can say that it could not have been done much faster. We must remember that we have experience of crises from a very recent period of memory: at the beginning of the 1990s, when Finland was in a situation where it was forced to act in times of crisis, it was possible to act. It must be remembered that at that time, for example, unemployment came closer to 15 per cent and getting the foreign currency, the money, into Finland, was hard to find in this country. We remember the desperate comments made by the finance minister back then that what is really going to happen here. Fortunately, this is not the case, so we can react to it ourselves. This is not a self-inflicted headache. This is only a question of how we can combat the threat that comes from outside. There is a fundamental difference. It is important that the whole of society is involved, as it has been. That's what I want to thank all the actors for. The government and the municipalities are working well together all the time. The social partners are strongly involved, as has already been demonstrated by their strong efforts. Companies operate responsibly. Of course there are layoffs, we all know that, but we also have to adapt to the situation that companies will overcome this serious situation. Health care is currently very hard in Finland, and it is admirable and respectful that people work with a great heart, giving up their own comfort, and it is certain that this can be done. This situation will continue as long as we only ensure that this health care staff, all those who work in that environment, have adequate protective equipment. The fact that we are now resorting for the first time in Finland to the emergency stocks that are intended for a time of crisis, in order to get protective equipment for these workers, people who are doing important work, is also, in a way, an alarm signal to us that we are in crisis preparedness at the right level and in hygiene in general, when we have to go through emergency stocks in a situation that comes up unexpectedly. Maybe there's a little place for future planning, but it's time for that in the near future. On the security side, too, this is a big requirement, such as the representative. S.H.I.E.L.D. in his good speech just took a picture. It also applies to the Border Guard, it applies to the Defence Forces, it applies to everyone, and that is why cooperation between the various national institutions under the leadership of the Government must be seamless in this matter, and that is what it has been. But it is important to ensure that our financial system remains in good shape and well-functioning. Minister of Finance Katri Kulmun’s statement ‘Statebanksandbanks’ ensures that as little business as possible can be expected to be in a financial and market There have been some signs on the market that the banks are pulling something out of the way, I am not saying that they are pulling something out of the way, but they are extorting these systems in vain, even though the state has guaranteed that funding can be provided and that the banks are not going out of their own interest here, but are putting themselves in the position of its entrepreneur and its small business, because small businesses are in the most dangerous position here. It should be borne in mind that for all of us, the small businesses, service providers, small production plants, small fist shops, barbers and so on are the jobs that are in a desperate situation all over Finland. I hope that we will act decisively on this issue and help these small businesses beyond the difficult times ahead. No attempt must therefore be allowed to go out of business so that some financial issue remains a little half-way. And then, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that when this crisis comes to an end one day — it is predicted that it will last perhaps half a year for nine months, who knows, we will see that already during this year — it is important to note, Mr President, that now that we are going after the crisis to prepare for a new situation and Finland to lift out of this difficult situation, we must finally realise that this task is needed for Finland as a whole. The fact that we have concentrated everything here in southern Finland means that we are going to suffer in a way. And if, for example, we want energy supply, agriculture is at the moment absolutely crucial. If we do not have food, then this nation is really, really in great trouble. That is why we must make it a matter of heart in this house, that Finnish farmers are doing well and that the farms are providing us with the necessary clean food, without which we will not be able to cope with any situation. I hope that these issues, which are important for the long term, for the future, will be raised. The same applies to energy supply. If we are increasingly dependent on imported energy, as I think there is a little effort to do: imagine if that eastern border closes and even if there is no more transportation of wood chips to Finland. What are we in then? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u64	Mr President! Indeed, the state of emergency is affecting the everyday life of each of us at the moment. On the other hand, it is also a good thing, because everyone in Finland must realise that each of us must aim to protect the groups at risk and at the same time safeguard the ability of critical sectors, such as health care, care, safety, transport, food and infrastructure. Therefore, avoid close contact and minimise movement. Everyone must act responsibly and in accordance with the guidelines when we know that it is a question of whether there will be enough intensive care for those who need it in the coming weeks and months. It is therefore important that we have an amending budget now, but this is only the beginning. Over the last week we have heard that both football and the Olympic Games will be moved, and if you quote sports terms, you really need this team playing — our team will be as strong as its weakest link — and that is also why it is important that, both in this preparation for the amending budget and in all future preparations, we have a unified vision of where we are going and that this preparation will also be made by opposition-government borders, forgetting that we know that new medicines are needed. Those old medicines that are present in the economy in normal economic problems, in challenges, those medicines that have been in the period since the recession in the '90s — I myself remember the bankruptcy of the family business from those days — are now not working. In other words, new ones are needed, and because the situation is so acute — perhaps what happened in that month is happening now in a day — effective measures are needed, effective, yet also encouraging and responsible, in the sense that we must bring that belief in the future to our entrepreneurs and workers who are really concerned. Indeed, at the beginning of last week, entrepreneurs started to get really worried about messages and calls. We know that, for example, the businesses in the event, service, tourism and restaurant sectors have virtually ceased to operate as if they were in the wall with restrictions, and at the moment the government is probably making even more restrictions. Entrepreneurs do understand the hard way, because human health must be at the heart of this wretched virus epidemic and at the forefront of all actions. Entrepreneurs understand the hard steps taken to fight the corona virus, but it cannot be that our employees, entrepreneurs, companies are being made to pay the bill with which we secure a better view for all Finns and try to control this wretched disease, our invisible combatants, but we have responsibility as a society, and we also have responsibility for getting them quickly and effectively done. The government has indeed published and prepared this amending budget. There is relief here for both the social and health sector and the financial situation of companies, but if you borrow these sports terms now, this is right, if you go for a 400-metre run, that starting shot: everyone is at the starting line, but we still have that whole track round ahead. That is why it is important that we all understand that this is not all the action we are taking. Entrepreneurs will be concerned about how it is with regard to employers' contributions, whether they will be frozen, how much social security for the sole entrepreneur, which is a good thing, whether it will safeguard for how long. There will still be solutions for them at other stages, and work will have to be done this week and the next weeks in cooperation. We all know that no one can get away with this alone. We do things together. As a parliamentary committee, we naturally accept the responsibility of ensuring that our police, border guards and emergency services and rescue services are able to prepare themselves, and it is important that they have been put in euros here. Representative S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u65	Mr President! I would like to bring the voice of Finnish entrepreneurs to this debate on the supplementary budget and the corona crisis. It's an emergency call. Entrepreneurs have been the backbone of this country's economy for decades. Without successful entrepreneurs, we would not have a strong public sector or, therefore, a welfare state. Now that entrepreneurs need help, we must respond to that cry. We do have resources. It's a matter of will mode. I do not believe that the government's current efforts to support entrepreneurs are sufficient. Finnish Entrepreneurs have presented measures to help us create better conditions for entrepreneurs, businesses and their employees to cope with this corona crisis with minimal damage. There is no need to remind anyone in this room or in the houseviews of the tragedy of the economic crisis of the 1990s. I do not know whether we can avoid a similar crisis now, but at least we must try. We must not paralyze and fear the use of debt money to safeguard jobs and avoid the bankruptcy of companies. We've taken tens of billions of dollars in debt when we were doing well. That may not have been very sensible, but now it is absolutely necessary to take up debt. The welfare state must be saved. Finnish Entrepreneurs have put forward a proposal for measures that would help to secure the funding of companies and prevent cash crises. I will read some of those proposals for measures here. 1. Employer's allowance: The state and employment pension companies must take on the employer's social insurance contributions 1.4. starting for a period of three months. In the case of occupational pension contributions, the so-called Emu buffers can be used. The impact would be approximately 1.4 billion per month, or 4.2 billion in total. 2. Entrepreneurial support: The State will take over the entrepreneurship YEL and MYEL payments from April 1st for a period of six months so that the entrepreneur does not run out of money. YEL-insured are 20,000 and MYEL-insured 57,000. Pension subsidy to an entrepreneur would cost the state an additional 105 million per month. A six-month subsidy would cost a total of EUR 630 million. 3. Aid for sole entrepreneurs: The State will pay 1.4. from 3 months for companies without employees and undissolved tax liabilities EUR 724 per month at the end of 2019. This will support the continuation of business activities. 4. The State will refund the own-initiative taxes, value added tax and employer contributions paid at the beginning of the year, and the advance taxes on application for a one-year loan to strengthen the working capital of companies. The non-interest-free deferral period is one year, starting when the Emergency Act is no longer in force. 5. The Employment and Economic Development Offices are instructed to welcome the extension and extension of payment periods for start-ups in order to ensure the continuity of the business of the start-up entrepreneur. To this end, resources for start-up money will be strengthened. 6. Public landlords — the state, municipalities, their companies, Metsähallitus and employment pension companies — must reduce their rent on their own initiative for at least three months. The Government calls on large real estate companies to reduce the rent level of shopping centres and to make the opening conditions more flexible. 7. The state and municipalities must implement their public procurement in a proactive manner, which will safeguard the activities of many companies and keep the market alive beyond the crisis. Mr President! This was therefore part of the measures proposed by the entrepreneurs. If you, the government parties, get your finger in the mouth and do not know how to help Finnish entrepreneurs, dig up this list I read and start making decisions. Time is money now. The longer you slow down and hesitate, the uglier you get. Finally, I would like to say to the honourable government that no one will come to you in history to blame you for helping too many Finnish entrepreneurs in this crisis. If, on the other hand, you allow the backbone of this country's economy, the micro- and small- and medium-sized enterprises, to be destroyed, you will not have a cock of honour singing when history books are written in due course. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u66	Mr President! We have had excellent speeches. This kind of collapse or anticipation of how much money is needed has indeed been predictable. We need more money for the social welfare and health sector: there is basic health care, but also special care. I was at a special medical board meeting last night. We know that, now that we have to bring down all the care without haste, we also do not have that income. The hospital district also has liquidity problems. It has an impact on local government finances. Well, the school sector has its own thing, of course, that is what we have heard here today in many speeches. The municipalities will be in a very, very difficult situation. They have been in a very difficult situation so far, and this makes it worse. Well, then today we talk about entrepreneurs in particular. The previous speaker mentioned just these good proposals made by Finnish entrepreneurs. This is where small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and self-employed people in particular grieve themselves. They've contacted me about this now. They fear that although this amending budget — it is good in itself that it has been adopted so quickly — wants to help entrepreneurs, the impact assessments really need to be looked at. I predict and believe that entrepreneurs themselves will know whether to help or not. Then there was talk of security. Border patrol, police and rescue are very important. It is very good that this amending budget has now been adopted, but we all know inside that this is not all there is to it. We will need the next and the next, and I wonder whether the government should make such a long-term plan. I understand that there is going to be a spending limits debate — it will be viewed for the next four years — but I would think that such a slightly longer-term plan for all these scenarios — the horror scenario and then a little more relaxed — is what needs to be done. Of course, the spending limits will look at it a lot longer, but it would bring a little security when we had a plan for what we could still need, and then we would start it, and even if it were brought in piece by piece, then there would be a broader plan. Now it seems to me that if we go like a hand in the mouth and always see what is needed, then it may not be controlled. This speech was not a criticism but a reflection on what I think should be done. Thank you for this, and I'm sure there'll be a follow-up. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u67	Mr President! Today, Finland is more one than ever, at least in my own lifetime, and this day also proves it. Together, we will overcome the crisis. This supplementary budget of 397 million in government terms is an important opening. We will continue to need a lot of money, but for once I can say that there is no room for compromise. Now we must act quickly, just as the government has now done. The health of citizens is now the first thing. That is why I am concerned that in hospitals the adequacy and availability of doctors and nurses has been secured, and that there is also a great deal of staff in hospitals for logistics, reception, maintenance of the institution, food services and equipment. We need human resources in medical care. I would still like to raise my concerns about the availability of sufficient medical oxygen in health care. Medicated oxygen is a viable treatment for the treatment of corona, especially in this situation when there is no vaccine. I hope that, at last, we too, in Finland, which has developed here, will be able to act in the same way that many other countries have been doing for years. Along with many other countries, we could finally introduce on-site generated oxygen. Today’s common bottle oxygen will not be enough in health centres and nursing homes in the future. I hope that this issue will be resolved as soon as possible. The crisis is only just beginning, so layoffs — especially in health care, even temporary ones — are not the right weapon for the survival of our country. We must now create a public human resources bank and keep the staff in constant employment. We need people for different tasks, particularly in health care, but in many other sectors, as has been said here before, in the police and rescue services. Similarly, we must ensure that we continue to have clean domestic and safe food. In recent days and also here today, we have heard many times say that healthy businesses must be supported. Now it seems that some will receive support and relief from society and some will not have sufficient resources from society. Minister Mrs Lintilä said today in this Chamber that we cannot isolate any particular area, that is to say all sectors are on the same track with regard to aid. This is a good promise. In the amending budget, the 50 million additional aid for development projects through the Ely Centres is a step in the right direction. Business Finland's 150 million increase is good, but as we know, Business Finland's grants are limited to limited companies. A huge amount of grants have been requested from Business Finland in a short period of time — probably more than 5000 copies already — and the value of 150 million now recorded in the amending budget is high. Minister Kulmuni comfortingly made a promise not to be a limited company, but to help everyone. I hope that this promise will also be fulfilled. Minister Lintilä mentioned that if the rent can be transferred for 3 months from the landlord, then the 4th month of the lease is already significant. Each of us knows that all companies operating have their own cost structure. When the cash flow stops, we will know what the result will be, in this case, for the landlord. Mr President! In that, I fully agree with Mr Kiljunen that now everyone must meet up, in all sectors. We are all in this unfortunate situation now, and today it has become clear in this Chamber, even earlier in the hearings of the Committee on Finance, that companies, which are in a healthy state, will at least receive some kind of help through either Business Finland or Finnvera. However, Finnvera cannot obtain a loan without the guarantees required by the bank. Although the collateral is now lower than in the normal world situation, it can still be too high, especially for growth companies. That is why my fear is, where is the limit: which companies will get help and which companies will not survive? This is a question that I have to answer several times every day. This is a difficult question to answer at this stage, and I therefore hope that we will increase government information and advisory services. We should therefore see to it that what happened to us after the previous recession — as a result of the previous recession, we lost one good generation of entrepreneurs. With the recession, many entrepreneurs lost their business, credit information and many even more. This resulted in companies and different kinds of property being liquidated at a mockery price. The wealthy so-called old money entrepreneurs became richer and brave and capable entrepreneurs were played out of the market. Although my concern may be ahead of schedule today, the situation we experienced after the previous recession must not arise in the future. [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u68	Ladies and gentlemen! We now have a situation in which we will have to suspend this sitting for a moment. We are about to have a referral debate with the Government's recent Government's proposal for a law on the temporary amendment of the Act on Accommodation and Catering. But let us take the floor one more time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u69	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the government for this speed. It should be noted that this additional budget was prepared almost a week ago and the proposal was submitted on Friday. Much more information has been received since then, and now the situation may seem different and worse. The most important thing is that the government has noticed all those problems and opened them up in this budget, and it is particularly important that the difficulties of companies are taken into account. This gives Business Finland and Ely Centres an additional EUR 200 million. To some extent, it is disgusting to hear what has been done in this Chamber about whether these are sufficient quantities. We all know that they are not enough. We also know that no one knows what the right amount is. But the government parties are quite prepared to raise these amounts, and they will have to be increased many more times. It is precisely these grants, direct grants, that are the most important, quick way of helping firms that are suddenly in difficulty. It is also important to increase Finnvera's financial powers and increase the compensation percentages for credit and guarantee losses. Unfortunately, these forms of financing are quite costly for companies and are mainly suitable for those with a guarantee deficit. Certainly these are necessary, since 80% would then have to be loan money that does not need collateral when Finnvera is responsible for them, but for many banks taking risk from that 20% could be problematic. Perhaps the best way for a small entrepreneur at least is to go to his own bank and take out normal credit if there are still collateral available.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u70	The case and the debate shall be suspended. The debate will be resumed at a later date. The session will resume at 8:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u71	We shall resume the sitting adjourned at 8 p.m. and item 3. The Government's new proposal on restaurant activities will be taken as a final point in the referral debate. — — — — Mr Talvitie from the amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u72	Mr President! So let us really continue with this additional economic assessment. It is important that we have this amending budget here, and, as I pointed out in the previous speech, we need those contributions, both to ease the financial situation for companies and also to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and also to the security side. There is concern in the Committee on Administration about how our police on the front line are prepared for both protective equipment and instructions and so on, because we all know in this Chamber that we cannot afford to suddenly have dozens, even hundreds, of police officers absent because there is someone getting this wretched virus epidemic or suspicions of infection. In other words, there is a need to act quickly now that, even if this funding comes to just over 5 million, the other precautions are being taken or prepared, as is the case with the representative. S.H.I.E.L.D. has just said who is responsible for cleaning police cars, whether it can be done in any other way and so on. Well, then, for these protective gear. It is therefore important that they receive funding. Although some of my colleagues here have praised the fact that it is great that the supply security reserve is now being opened up, it was at least my concern that it should be introduced now. But it is important that we now also act in such a way that all of us companies that have the opportunity to change their production direction also reflect on it. I will give you a very encouraging example from Oulu. Last Saturday I got a message from the company Screentec. Old students are there and make a different protective film for medical electronics and a medical diagnostic aid. They told me that during the weekend they were going to make prototypes and production - direction tests to see if they could start doing such protective visors. As early as today, I got a picture on my cell phone of a protective visor that they, together with the Hospital District of North Ostrobothnia, have done according to the rules and needs they have. Indeed, Screentec has already ordered materials for the first thousand such protective equipment. The company does not have to do the medical supplies they usually do, but they are able to make a rapid change in the direction of production. The goal now is that materials would even be able to make 100,000 pieces of these protective visors. These are the first messages from it and future messages will probably be received that our companies have the potential to innovate a whole new kind of activity. These types of protective visors are needed in the field of health care, but they are also needed in other areas. We are in an exceptional situation, Mr President. This exceptional situation affects the everyday lives of all of us. As I said in the first speech, this amending budget is perhaps the first starting shot, thinking of running straight examples, to go all the way to the starting points, but the whole 400 metres is at least a distance and a lot of action is needed. There is also a need for an attitude towards the new measures, the new medicines, how to move forward together. We know no one can get away with this alone. At the beginning of that month, I was on the first 100th birthdays of my life. My husband's grandmother was 100 years old in Nurmo, Ostrobothnia. My mother-in-law had found the text that this Grandma Salme had written in the Winter War magazine of the Nurem Youth Society. I will read a few quotes: “The journey of our lives is unknown. There are many battles along it.” ‘There is no small battle that is fought for the sake of Here is the very strong view that there has been a variety of battles over our daily bread. And we all know that there is not as much feedback on any other matter as has been received these days from the concern people have about jobs, businesses and livelihoods, how to deal with this together. But together we can survive with the attitude with which this Finland has been rebuilt in the past. When you look forward together, the future is made together, and that's how we can get through this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u73	Mr President! The Corona virus epidemic is undoubtedly the deepest and most difficult crisis of our generation. Firstly, it is a direct threat to our health and well-being. Secondly, it is a serious blow to practically all sectors of our society. In order to mitigate these attacks, Finns now expect more solutions from the government. In view of this, the government's amending budget in the referral debate is a good start, but we all know that it is not enough. Coronavirus as a disease collapses people’s lungs, and that’s what it does to the economy. Our country’s lungs, or entrepreneurs, are on the verge of collapse. In numerous Finnish families and companies, concern for the future is now great when your own work or business has gone under or is about to go under. That is why we need more decisions to help Finns, to breathe them through the crisis. Time is money, so we need artificial breathing fast. I believe that we all agree on this in this Chamber. Mr President! The Coalition Party wants to support the government in this work. Last week, we submitted our own proposals to the government to support business demand and facilitate people's everyday lives. Many of these measures were included in the financial package published by the government on Friday, so thank you for that. Nevertheless, I would also encourage the government to look at the implementation of those omissions. For example, our proposal to abolish the employer's contribution to companies that still hold their workforce or to promote local agreement would still be necessary for many entrepreneurs. It must also be said, unfortunately, that the government's 15 billion economic package on Friday did not provide sufficient support for the situation of the most vulnerable SMEs. Our proposal last week, and still so, is that the government will urgently look into the introduction of similar emergency financing instruments for direct SMEs, which have already been decided on in Germany, among others. One source of funding for this exceptional and undoubtedly costly solution could be the existing EMU buffers. We will also be bringing in new ways for the government to consider in the next few days. When it comes to jobs, businesses and the future of Finns, no stone must be left unturned, solutions must be found. Mr President! So there are solutions, and I really hope that the government will take a positive view of these measures that we have put forward. We all know that we will get out of this crisis too, but it is now a matter of what kind of price. So let us do too much rather than a little bit towards a common goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u74	Mr President! What really matters now is that instead of spending money on general demand recovery, money is spent wisely and in a targeted way, helping both households and businesses over this shock also in ways that do not really have to pay anything or very little for public finances. One thing that often comes up when talking to entrepreneurs is this reduction in the workforce. That makes sense in such a situation, especially when we have a well-known social security system, which will then be accessible to laid-off workers. I have understood that there is going to be a law, a government proposal that makes it possible to lay off the withdrawal period to 5 days from 14 days. At least it's very important to the entrepreneurs in my contact circle. I would like the government to be able to confirm — and I can also see that the Minister for Employment, Mr Tuula Haatainen, is here — that there will be legislation in this Chamber that will actually ensure this reduction for all businesses in all sectors of the economy by means of legislation, so that companies know what the standard is for them. There are over 200 collective agreements in Finland, if I remember correctly, and it is very difficult for many small companies to know where the collective agreement might stand in this regard. I would therefore like the government to be able to confirm that by legal means this reduction to five days will actually happen to all companies. The second question that has raised one's own mind is that these temporary labour market laws have now been imposed for only three months, even though the original joint proposal of the social partners, which was not an agreement, but a joint proposal, would have been to have been set at this stage to last until the end of the year, if I remember correctly. They could always have been interrupted if necessary. But three months seems like a pretty short time. Why have three months been chosen in this case? That may also mean that we will probably have to extend these laws in the summer, even though I was thinking about our working community. It's kind of hard to understand. This is a general observation of this government itself, in many ways, a well-founded and good approach to this crisis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u75	Mr President! We are living in a very exceptional time, and this is also reflected in the exceptionalness of our parliamentary work. I, too, am sitting in the wrong place to keep my colleague away from me, I did press the right button, but I understand that we are going to have to shape this Chamber arrangement a little bit here, and the agenda of the day will change as we go along. This is a very critical situation, and I would just like to stress one more thing here when we talk about this amending budget, and that is the urgency of these protective equipment to a very large extent. We have a report on hospitals, a hospital that has a critical situation in that there are not enough protective equipment, and these people, if anyone, need it, because if we also collapse this healthcare system for the medical staff, we will be in complete trouble. But I would like to remind you that protective equipment is also needed in other professions. Hairdressers are in the professions where they are in close contact — even though their client base has decreased, in any case those professions are still practised and protective equipment is really needed in these contexts too. Business Finland has today been criticised for its support for new innovative activities and development projects. However, as Mrs Talvitie has pointed out here, this is a very important starting point for inspiring projects specifically suited to exceptional circumstances and this Screentec project, to which Mrs Talvite referred, is going to start developing new types of protective equipment, and this critical situation is being genuinely caught up — exactly what we want from companies and, most importantly, this type of public funding is also being directed towards projects of this kind.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u76	Mr President! The Government has taken good and determined steps to tackle this corona crisis and minimise its impact on the Finnish people and Finnish companies, but much remains to be done. At the moment, in particular, we are in a situation, as has already been said at the mouth of many in this Chamber today, that small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are still empty and in a free fall. We need so-called entrepreneurship support for entrepreneurs and we need more funding for entrepreneurs to save jobs and businesses. It is spring, the cranes have arrived from the south, but the swamps are frozen – the crane dies before the swamp melts," said Sixten Korkman in his excellent article today in Helsingin Sanomat. It is true that food is needed for the poor to live beyond this stage before it melts, and I therefore ask and hope that the government will also take account of this need for entrepreneurs in its forthcoming presentations so that jobs and the future of businesses can be secured and as much as possible saved. In any case, the money that goes into this will have to be used to retrain the unemployed, to run bankruptcy and start-up money, and so on, if we now allow this company, which employs very well the citizens of our country, to collapse as a result of this crisis. That is why I am still calling on the government to take strong action on behalf of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u77	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to which the Committee on Culture must deliver an opinion by 11 a.m. on Wednesday 25 March 2020. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u78	Mr President! In these exceptional circumstances, it is our joint task to protect the safety and health of Finns. Therefore, restrictive measures have been put in place to prevent the spread of this corona virus, and it is therefore essential that we work together to ensure that these measures are actually effective. However, even in exceptional circumstances, the rule of law must respect the fundamental principles of law, and the government has now had to correct this line on the organisation of local education on 1, 2 and 3. for the categories of years, because Finnish legislation does not currently know such an official list of sectors that are critical to society. Therefore, the grounds for different treatment of children in this original Regulation were not sufficiently precise. The Government, under the leadership of the Prime Minister's Office, has already launched preparations to define these critical areas in a legally sustainable way, so that in the future it will be possible to adapt to exceptional circumstances even more quickly and unambiguously if there is a need to do so. In other words, this change is based on the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy and also on the points raised during the expert discussions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In other words, the limitation of local education to children whose parents work in critical areas had not been formulated in the regulation as required at legislative level by the restriction on fundamental rights and the imposition of a different status for people. The significance of the amendment to Article 3 of this regulation is therefore that, in the case of Classes 1 to 3, as regards their right to contact teaching, the Regulation removes the requirement for guardians to work in sectors which are critical to the functioning of society. However, I would like to point out that according to the Government's policy of 16 March 1920, parents should continue to keep from 1 to 3 as far as possible. in the case of remote education at the home of their children, in order to avoid unnecessary contacts in order to slow down the progression of the epidemic, i.e. this remains a recommendation, this remains the preferred option. Mr President! Slowing down this epidemic is the responsibility of everyone in Finland. So all parents have to reduce their contact with their children to a minimum. Despite the amendment to the regulation, we have constantly informed parents that if the child is in early childhood education or from 1 to 3. in year classes, do not take the child to contact education unless it is absolutely necessary. This message has also been heard, and the Finnish guardians have taken responsibility very well. Yesterday, on Monday, both the National Board of Education and the Teachers' Trade Union (OAJ) have both estimated that this change in guidelines did not result in a large increase in the number of pupils in Finnish schools and the number of pupils in basic education remains exceptionally low. In other words, this is the case with the rule of law in emergency situations. All necessary steps will be taken, necessary corrections will be made when problems arise and the Constitution will be respected under all circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u79	Mr President! We are in a historic situation in terms of the realisation of children's rights. For us adults too, this situation with corona may be stressful and distressing, but it is often even harder for children to deal with everything that is going on and at hand, and this is something we should remember every single day, even if we live in an exceptional situation. Moreover, children themselves are not in a position to stand up for the fact that the Emergency Act and its implementing regulations are, in principle, also in line with the best interests of the child and the right-of-children position. Mr President! Children are also in very unequal situations as to how they are now receiving support in this exceptional situation. The real danger is that children and families who have already accumulated various problems, such as substance abuse and mental health problems, will suffer the most in this situation. In addition, the exceptional situation causes great uncertainty and economic problems in many families. It's not the best possible situation for these families to curl up in. Well-being families will certainly be able to cope with this surprising crisis as well. It is our job to look at vulnerable families in particular. It is great that many municipalities, organisations and other bodies working with families have already started to come up with new ways of working and helping very quickly. However, there is a great deal of uncertainty about how, for example, teachers responsible for distance education get a catch for children and young people who become anxious. These children may not answer the phone, and their parents may not be available through Wilma. At the same time, however, the authorities are bound by the same child protection obligations as always. In general, remote education and the growing responsibility of parents can also be burdensome in families where the situation is already critical. The impact of children’s background on learning outcomes is increasing anyway, and distance learning is unlikely to help in this situation. However, it is now important to provide information on where to get help quickly and on a low threshold. Even under normal circumstances, there is too much local variation in access to services. We must have enough resources now and after the emergency, to deal with the family burdening factors that result from this unprecedented situation. It makes sense to tackle these preventively right now. Such negative effects on the well-being and inequality of families will not continue for years to come when problems do not accumulate. It is also important to examine the impact of the legislation on children in the exceptional period. In this work, it is also essential to clarify the views of children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u80	Honorable Speaker! Although the list of critical areas was long and open to interpretation from the outset, this unclear guidance on schools and education providers was also planned and implemented. Of course, the practices varied, but the situation was taken over as well as possible. That is why Friday’s new focus on the right of every first, second and third grader to contact teaching caused understandable confusion. The blocks had been collected a little bit, and another interpretation was in front of us. But as long as men work, things are imperfect. Therefore, it is still of the utmost importance that all the children who are capable of being at home — school and kindergartens only go and only if they have to. I would like to thank Mr Andersson very much for the fact that in many ways you have appealed to the parents, and it has obviously also worked well. I myself hope that the parents will also have tournament endurance. It is quite clear that parenthood is being tested. Many attend to their work, home education for children, as well as other everyday chores at the same time. At the same time, concerns about the family’s livelihood and the future of the family in general are growing. And even though the criteria for this period also disappeared, many are still in critical areas where it is not possible to do telework. So families are creative and trying to cope with everyday life. There is good reason to thank Finnish day-care centres, schools, educational institutions and education providers. In a time of need, you can lean on them. The front line of society holds. They are working to the full extent that is now possible. That is why we must also try to confuse the government as little as possible. In many places, education, education and parents are at the limit. Flexibility and trust in the basis of sufficient common sense and local competence are essential. And if you want something positive to find or express, it may be that in a few weeks a digital leap has been taken that might otherwise have been unrealized. In the event of an exceptional situation, the non-essentials will also disappear and the essentials will become available. Let's do what's at the heart of it all, and let's forget all the fuss. President! We protect by restricting, restricting — that's what it's all about. Although I am deeply concerned, for example, about the learning of pupils and students in remote education or about the coping of educators, teachers and parents and the welfare of children, I still say that the greatest wisdom in the midst of the crisis is to act in a spirit of solidarity, protecting life and the future. President! There are individual questions and uncertainties. However, we are in exceptional circumstances. When this time passes, it is clear that the providers of education and training, teachers, educators, students and students need support. This is the time to leave wounds. Then it is time for reconstruction, and that too must be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u81	Mr President! This time is exceptional for all of us, but this is particularly evident in the everyday lives of children and young people. This crisis will certainly have deep marks, especially for those whose lives are just beginning. For many adults, a few months is a time that may seem like an instant, but for a child and a youth that time is eternity. It is a time when a child can learn to walk or talk, for example. Therefore, every effort must now be made to ensure that every child has a genuinely equal opportunity to learn. This is a key opportunity for the future of children and young people as well as for the future of the country as a whole. Learning is a fundamental right and one of the cornerstones of a civilised state. In order to safeguard this fundamental right, many teachers, other people from the school staff and the principal and the parent have now worked without saving themselves in recent weeks, and even at this point all these people deserve our thanks for the bottom of our hearts. At the same time, however, it must be noted that this time will certainly continue for a long time, and in addition to thanks, concrete measures are needed to support teachers, children and parents. This means sufficient investment in the municipalities, but also in the everyday services, such as telephone services, which ensure that no one is left alone with their anxiety, at the point where it may well seem that the walls fall on top when you have had to do your own work as well as supporting your child’s learning at home. That is why it is now essential not to cut back on support for learning, but rather to invest in social services. It has been very worrying to hear from the municipalities of Finland that lay-offs and even negotiations are now being planned in a situation in which we have pointed out separately that this should not be the case. On the other hand, such solutions are in a way understandable when considering the economic crisis in municipalities. That is why we need to make sure that we have enough money. That is why it has been good to hear that the Government is responding to this as soon as possible, because it is indeed the future of children and young people. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child explicitly states that it must not be derogated from, even during war or other exceptional circumstances, but, in fact, it is basically provided for precisely because the rights necessary for children are also fulfilled in difficult times. It is in difficult times that the foundations of a civilised state are being challenged. It is precisely in those times that we must all work to ensure that children's rights are safeguarded. These rights are also guaranteed by the Finnish Constitution, which explicitly states in Article 16 that ‘the public authority must ensure that everyone has equal access to their abilities and needs,including non-basic education, and develop itself without precipitatingresponsibilities’. That is what we really need to pay attention to now. Safeguarding fundamental rights does not exclude efficiency, does not rule out the urgency of safeguarding the right to life — perhaps the most fundamental right of all — but at the same time it must be recognised that, in order to reconcile them all, hard work and hard work is required on the part of society as a whole, because simply thanks, words alone, cannot ensure that this crisis, which is going to last for months, is actually overcome. So now I really hope that we will all see this together as a matter of such central importance that we will ensure that children's rights are realised both in the midst of this crisis and after this crisis. This previous debate underlined that the resolution of this crisis will, of course, put a lot of pressure on Finland's public finances, both at local and national level. These pressures must be overcome in the longer term, but at the same time it must be recognised that cutting away from education, children and young people cannot at any time be the way to balance the economy. It cannot be the way now, it cannot be the way after the recession, nor can it be the way after five years, because it is precisely on the basis of the understanding of the right of children and young people to learn after the recession of the 1990s that we will have the future that we are now living in. It is precisely that that is the central strength of Finnish society. It is also a guarantee of a solid foundation for business. That is why we must be patient enough to invest in education and learning now, but also in the future. I really hope that this will be remembered for a long time inside the walls of this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u82	Mr President! In order to slow down the epidemic of interest rates, Finland has introduced a number of restrictions, one of which is the partial closure of schools and kindergartens. Schools and day care centres are open in places, but as we know, it is recommended that children are taken care of at home if possible. As we understand, combating the virus must be a priority and, as many speakers have said, it would be good if only children whose parents cannot take care of them at home would go to contact teaching and day care. The rise in the number of pupils increases the risk of illness among pupils and teaching and other staff and spreads epidemics to other parts of society. In addition, the guidelines and their changes put a strain on the planning of practical arrangements for schools. But distance school or home school — what you want to call it — is not without problems, as many have said here. Once again, I have noticed that at least I would not be a primary school teacher. It's kind of a pain in the ass. Even in many well - being families, when parents try to survive their distance work and teach one and counsel another and limit the third and one to tear down the gaming equipment and so on, it is a very challenging whole — and perhaps for a very long time, this can last for months. However, I am more concerned about those families that have had significant problems even before this crisis. They can easily exacerbate the situation. I am referring to problems such as lack of parenthood, substance abuse problems, the general challenges of education, the fluency of everyday life and other common problems of life management. They are highlighted in exceptional circumstances, especially when you cannot get out of your home. For many children, a day-care centre or school is a prerequisite for social and mental life, sometimes physically — especially when the only warm food of a child’s day is eaten in school. Even in this sense, the situation of municipalities will become more difficult. It is likely that child welfare, family work and therapy will become more burdensome. Similarly, the police will have more domestic violence tasks as well as work on the streets where frustrated youths, perhaps others, are venting. As we know, in many municipalities the situation is already hopeless, even in crisis. Children may be responsible for up to a hundred children. The turnover of workers is a major problem. Prevention has never worked sufficiently before in the corona crisis. Similarly, children are even placed because mental health services have not been organised. Remote work and quarantine also make it difficult for many activities in child protection. Mr President! Everyone is affected by exceptional circumstances and epidemics. The most affected are the sick, the poor, the disadvantaged, the elderly and the children. I hope that, together, we will all be able to consider measures to facilitate the situation and that the government will involve the opposition in this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u83	Mr President! This debate has become very valuable in terms of safeguarding the well-being of our children and young people, families and all our citizens. Last night, for the first time in my life, I saw a corona notebook. My first - grade son did learning — first - graders had named that notebook by that name. This corona crisis affecting our people and the whole world is a trial which also shows us in the moment that the threat is not so much that we are assessing our actions, but that we must constantly assess what we have done and that we are also prepared to change our activities if necessary. The government has now amended this regulation on the basis of the points raised by the Committee on Education and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the Minister for Education stated that access to local education for first- and third-graders does not depend on the employment of their parents. However, the recommendation of the Ministry and the preferred option remain that children go to school at home, and it is good that you have brought it up, Minister. I myself am very grateful to the parents of Finland for acting responsibly and having taken their children home to school, although it is often not very easy — as has been said in this debate — but it is a demanding task, while at the same time having their own, perhaps very demanding, telework to do or there are other situations outside the home. Just as Mr Purra said, there are many different problems in the homes and they are highlighted during this period and we have had many challenges and difficulties already, for example, in providing family work and home services for families with children and various kinds of mental health services, and they are now being emphasised. It is now absolutely essential that we discuss their availability and that we do everything possible to ensure that children and young people are as well at home as possible when there is no local education. School is of the utmost importance to many children. I also share Mr Honkasalo's wish that it is now particularly important to inform families, but also children and young people where help can be obtained. Preventing problems is always better for people, but also for the economy than correcting matters afterwards. At the same time, I would also like to thank our country's teachers and school staff for my part. Yesterday, along with telework, I had a home school for my children for the first time, and I succeeded, too, because the instructions were good and clear — each child’s teacher had written good instructions for Wilma. This situation highlights the fact that we all — homes, schools, everyone — work together. And, of course, it is also important that children and young people remain connected to student care. We're gonna get through this together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u84	Mr President! I came here to thank you, Mr Andersson, for your work in the midst of this crisis. Certainly it was not an easy decision to close schools, and yet that is the direction that has been taken, or strongly restricting the fact that infections do not occur at school when the majority of children are brought home. I would also like to thank you for clearly leaving to try this solution, to limit the number of professional groups the children would then be there in close-up education and the others would stay home. I believe that, although this was not achieved, this part was actually causing parents to take it very seriously that, now that everything can finally be taken to schools, it has been understood that it is not going to be taken, even though there is an opportunity. I would also like to thank you for communicating so strongly in the interviews and also in the social media to parents that even though the child is basically entitled to take to school, this possibility would not be used now if it were not strictly necessary. This line, the line of communication, will be pursued vigorously in different channels. I believe that this situation will improve even further. Do you think I've thanked you enough times? I think that's all I've got. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u85	Mr President! I, too, can agree with the representative. Like Mr Tynkkynen, I would like to thank the Minister for the very good work you have done with regard to pupils and schoolchildren and early childhood education. The work that has been done in the municipalities — I have had the opportunity to monitor the activities of my own municipality, how it has been done — has actually made it possible for teachers and all the staff to act surprisingly quickly on various issues and for many practical measures to be put in place quickly and, as a result, the situation has gone far better than it might have been at its worst. Mr President! Under these demanding exceptional circumstances, compulsory education still exists, and it is a matter of organising education as a matter of principle at home as a distance education. The exception is for children of grades 1 to 3, who have access to contact teaching, but it is hoped that, if possible, the child could be at home and study at a distance. It has now also become clear to us in the committee that the problem is that distance learning is not clearly defined by law and that it has now caused municipalities to carry out this distance learning – both within municipalities and in different municipalities – in a very different way. That is why it would probably be good at some point to start thinking about this and then to set out the role of distance education, because it may be that we will be faced with similar situations in the future. In any case, it is important to define it. When a child is in close or distance education, the responsibility in all these situations is that the municipality is responsible for the education — not the parents, but the school and the teachers working there. Parents support this distance education, but they are not responsible in that way. We need to recognize that public responsibility and the teacher's responsibility for this teaching. It has now come to light — and I am, of course, mirroring this situation in my own home town, Lappeenranta, where I am following this situation very closely — that when we are in remote education we do not all have equal opportunities to learn and understand when using Wilma and everything else. Now the town of Lappeenranta, among other things, solved this in such a way that we determined what is distance learning and we made curricula, weekly plans and daily schedules, that school is being conducted at 8 am–15 pm and that it is defined precisely what is being done, when we eat, when we move, what lessons are being taught and what is being learned, and the teacher monitors it with digital devices. This has now meant that the city of Lappeenranta is also acquiring digital devices for all children, and this will enable equal support to be given to every child for learning, and this will enable the implementation of distance education on an equal basis for all children. It also makes it possible to systematically help all children, young people in their learning or, if they have problems, difficulties, then the teacher will be able to support the student differently individually. This will make it easier for parents to burden themselves. This has also led to motivation for children, different WhatsApp groups have been set up, and one of them has helped others on various issues, which means that this may also be an opportunity, but this requires that these digital devices and study tools are secured for all children and teachers genuinely take responsibility for teaching the child. That is why I am asking you what I have just asked in this committee: now if other municipalities were to go into this situation and make a statement that every child and young person would be protected from these learning tools at home, so that it will cost the municipalities, just as other things are being supported at the moment, then could this be one of the grounds for supporting municipalities to acquire digital devices for all children, either in such a way that the municipality owns them and the child will be able to have them at home — or if the parents have done so, then there is no need to have — but in any case it would be guaranteed that all children will have access to digital equipment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u86	Mr President! This has already been quite well covered in what is at stake here. We dealt with this in committee last week and we are now continuing this week. It is very important that, in this situation, even if the implementing regulation itself changes, the message to families and parents is very clear, and this seems to have been the case. Of course, the fact that now more people have the opportunity to put their children into contact education under this implementing regulation has increased the number of children in local education, for example in Vantaa about doubled the number of children who are now in close contact education. Therefore, when this crisis is likely to last, it would be very, very important that there is support for families, of course for children in the normal way, but also other support for municipalities even more than normal, because, as has been well described here, the situation in families may be very challenging, even in normal families, but especially in those families that are in need of support anyway. Municipalities are now taking decisions in anticipation and have already taken them before the adoption of these implementing regulations. Of course, now that the ministry is full of work on these matters, I hope that you will also collect information on how the municipalities have organised these matters now, and that good practices will be spread and the hands will not be tied too tightly. We are now looking forward with great interest in the Committee on Education and Rural Development to the way in which the Constitutional Committee, with this new regulation, will take a position on the organisation of school meals, for example. For too many children and young people, it is the only warm meal of the day. At the moment, we in Vantaa have a policy that children’s welfare customers are entitled to school food in addition to the children who are in local education. We are also considering all kinds of other solutions so that those who need food also receive it every day. Of course, this applies to more than just children. There are many adults who need food. In any case, when we get the position of the Constitutional Committee, we hope that there will be room for manoeuvre in the municipalities how these things can be carried out there in everyday life, because the municipalities are very different. Of course, as far as early childhood education is concerned, the situation has been the same all along, so there was no change. What is great to note is that in the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection and Minister Andersson's recommendation that parents who take their children out of early childhood education should also not be subject to early childhood education fees have been accepted and implemented in many municipalities as such. My own municipality Vantaa made this decision on the basis of the administrative rule we made possible yesterday, and that is a very good thing, because the recommendations already made by the public authorities, whether they are the municipalities or the state, must go in the same direction as its payment policy, i.e. it cannot be that fees are charged if it is recommended to keep children out of day-care centres. I would like to make a few comments on this, namely the issue of student and student care, which concerns the Committee on Education and Rural Development and its implementation in these exceptional times. I've already mentioned the school dinner. The second thing is that pre-school education is organised in different municipalities in different ways, and now pre-school education is, as it were, remote education for the majority. In the past, it was the idea of the ministry, and it seems to have been answered in this way, that it is hoped that these children, who do not have any preschool education — now, I am sure, many will return there, but if some do not return there — will then, if necessary, be provided with other early childhood education, for example. Well, then, this other time of early childhood education in many municipalities will probably now temporarily cease to exist. So it would be good to have a chance to do this, however, because there are certainly situations in families where adults have to go somewhere, whether they are health reasons or reasons for work — not everyone can do all the work at home at a distance — so that there are also such temporary facilities for care, such as outdoors in kindergartens, if they do not want to do it indoors in order to avoid the risk of infection. I believe that the information will certainly reach the Ministry and then, if necessary, the Ministry will provide further guidance to the municipalities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u87	Mr President! Finland is a safe state of justice and education in which the Convention on the Rights of the Child is also in force under abnormal circumstances when the Act on Preparedness is in place. As the Minister of Education, Mr Andersson, said, there is also a need to act and to act in accordance with the Constitution. In order to ensure that these fundamental rights are realised even in difficult circumstances, the Constitutional Committee has been given such a role as ex post inspector of the regulations. The Government made a correction of its decree on the basis of the Emergency Act, when the list of critical sectors, occupations was not sufficiently precise. The purpose of the list was quite rightly to maintain the functioning of society. There was a desire to limit the number of children in educational groups and to prevent the spread of infections. However, fundamental rights could not be safeguarded with sufficient precision. Shows good decision-making capacity when corrective action can also be taken when the reasons are justified. As Mr Tynkkynen said earlier, lists of critical areas contributed to parents’ responsibility and to taking a large proportion of children home when possible. I would like to thank Mr Andersson for his hard work in raising this issue. Of course, it is good to remember that the situation is also right when young children go to school there and parents do important work to make our society run. So far, we've done well. Yesterday, my own ninth grade son, through his Instagram account, carried out an investigation into how much young people trust the police and compared the results obtained with the results of the youth barometer. Different learning environments and tasks open up new opportunities for deep learning. Our entire school system is learning new things here. All children and young people still have the right to take part in school education, now most of it in remote education. Education at home also faces its own challenges, as well described here. When the situation persists, it may become a tournament fatigue, as Mr Kivisaari described above. Family difficulties can accumulate in abnormal circumstances. I believe that the appreciation of teachers will grow when many get to try out this excellent profession, and I would like to express my thanks to all the teachers who are stretched and strained and flexible in this situation. Let us also face the loss of parenthood. Being out of work can be a big blow and take your mind down. At worst, situations can go to violence and absolutely intolerable circumstances. It should be borne in mind that child welfare also operates in a normal way under these circumstances, and it is important that children's contact with student and student care is maintained at all times. Families need family work, concrete home help and support for mental health and life management problems. Together, we will survive and succeed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u88	Mr President! It is good to hear that this preparation for these critical areas has now begun. You never know, we may need it very soon. At the moment, however, it seems that the families have received this message well, and this week there has not yet been a terrible rush by the first- and third-graders. Of course, there are big regional differences. There were probably only a few percentages in Helsinki, and then Mr Multala said that there was already a lot more in Vantaa. In that way, what has come out here is the resistance of the tournament. So we have to keep an eye out for how many of these one-threes are coming here to the schools. If things get a little worse at home and the parents may not be up to it, then it is quite easy to tell the children that you go to school. If this happens, then these other exceptional measures will soon be watered down. Then there's been this school dinner. So it's a bit of a problem. In committee, Mr Kiljunen said that they had contact with, for example, all the first and thirds and asked who needed school food. There were clear answers. This is exactly the way it's supposed to go, so we can't roll this job to the kids. How many kids are going to tell me at school that we have things so bad at home that I don't get proper food? So I just saw that we're taking over the role of that leader here. And then, about student custody: It is no longer available in many municipalities, and it is quite a big problem, so that it may also require clarity. I don't care what Mr. Kiljunen talked about, these equipment needed to study: these will at least be a lot of messages to me, that what will be done with them and whether the municipalities will replace them, and if the municipalities will replace them, then whether the state will replace the municipality. Perhaps it is worth starting to prepare for this post-crisis skills gap and the future mental problems of these children and young people, which will certainly come more. It is already important to prepare for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u89	Mr President! The time we are living in today has instantly changed the daily lives of tens of thousands of children and young people. When the ark changes, the whole life changes. Known and safe walls, hallways and desks have changed to rooms, windows and people in the home, the teacher has changed to a telephone or a toilet. When the whole future changes and looks uncertain, many children can experience fear and anxiety, uncertainty about how I am now, whether my mother and father, siblings, family — whether a child or young person who needs more support in learning and everyday life. These concerns weigh on many of our children. A lot of them are scared, but they don't have the guts to tell me. Many are distressed because learning has become difficult. The importance of student care should be remembered even in these difficult moments. The importance of school assistants and school counselors in learning children and young people should also be remembered now during exceptional circumstances. Mr President! It is clear that resources must be directed to where the most critical need is for them. There is also a large number of professions in school health care, whose expertise is now acutely and temporarily needed in social welfare and health care. But it is also worth considering that children and young people still have the opportunity to get help to deal with their fears, help to learn the way they need, even at a distance. This is a challenge for municipalities, but we must be aware of this challenge. Children and young people must be given care, especially in this current situation, so that it is possible for those who need it to receive urgent help. Our job is to try to ensure, in the best possible way, that no one has to be afraid. Children and young people are not a burden, they are a resource and a future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u90	Mr President! In this serious crisis, the protection of spirit and health is a top priority, and it is therefore very important that a strong message is sent out to Finnish families that all the families who can keep their own children at home, there in remote education at home, would also do this. But at the same time, we must remember that Finland's main objective is that every single child will receive sufficient basic skills and knowledge from early childhood education and basic education, and the joy of learning, that it will carry at least a secondary level to education and work, and we must not give up this goal now. Every child's life is unique, and this time we face in a time of crisis is a long time in a child's life. That is why we need to take care of what the Basic Education Act also allows the student to do: in addition to teaching according to the curriculum, we need to take care of student guidance, adequate learning and schooling support throughout the course of basic education. It is therefore very important that the Minister for Education should focus on the way in which this matter is secured. We have very good teachers, the best teachers in the world, but in this crisis they also need support, support for methods, but also resource support. The municipalities are very strict, and I ask: when will there be an amending budget that should also support teaching in this crisis? In this amending budget before us, it does not exist, but I believe that it is now coming, it must come. Many children have been thrown into cold water now that we protect children and their health. There have now been good speeches that the situation of many children at home is very difficult and that children in the home environment cannot learn without special support. That month is an eternity for a child, but this may be many eternity ahead of us when this worst time of crisis lasts. We must therefore do all we can to ensure that no child is deprived of the kind of learning deficit that will then be difficult to bridge afterwards. There is a risk here that some of the children in this age group will fall off the syllabus, and that is why this special support is important, and I hope that the Minister for Education will respond to it here. We must also look to the future. I felt that the Minister of Education had said that perhaps this situation would lead to the need for additional resources in the field of the Ministry of Education and Culture, but I personally strongly believe what the OAJ has said that it is quite clear that more support is needed when this crisis is over and the children return to schools. My question is: how have you thought about preparing yourself for this in the spending limits debate? It is quite clear that the government programme has dropped its base and we must look at this situation on a completely new basis. It is important to ensure that every child then receives that support, now during this crisis, but also when returning to schools. As a representative of Parliament in Helsinki, I would like to say that our educational services in particular have expressed the hope that the right to school meals will be considered. After all, basic education does not know distance education, and we do not have legal definitions of the rights that children have, and then, of course, I myself interpret that the rights that the Basic Education Act has are also in distance education. But these are of concern to the municipalities, and in that sense I appreciate the fact that the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy, Paula Risikko, has made a very strong contribution to the fact that it is important for the Constitutional Committee to look at and also look at this matter of student care. That's what the municipalities expect. Teachers in Helsinki have also been concerned when the background notes and expert speeches from the Ministry of Education state that teachers have the same responsibility for the safety of pupils when they are in remote education, and this is not practically possible. It would be good for this to become instruction from the National Board of Education. I myself have been trained in health care and very much on this health side of my mind, and I hope that the Food Authority and the THL will give instructions on how to organise school meals as soon as possible. It is not enough to provide support for families when children need food — nutrition is important — but it must now also be able to take care of those hygiene instructions, and I believe that schools need guidance for this. The officials responsible for the school meals of the Finnish National Board of Education have also drawn attention to this, and I would point out that these guidelines have not yet arrived, and in that sense I would draw the government's attention to the issue of guidelines under exceptional circumstances. Health care as a whole is managed by the Government, and those instructions are needed
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u91	Mr President! It is a good thing that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs deals with the introduction of the Emergency Act and regulations carefully and carefully and examines the proposals in the light of our existing legislation and fundamental rights. It makes sense for all of us to suggest that a first- and third-grader needs adult help in learning more than older children and young people. Similarly, it is clear to us that if and when we want to reduce the risk of infection, we should not come to school except in real need. The government sought to describe this real need on the list of critical sectors, including health care, logistics, rescue services, food chain, waste management, water management and so on. However, our legislation is not familiar with such a list, which is why it is currently the way to recommend this approach to the families and municipalities who organise education. However, the message has reached the families — thanks also to the Minister for Perseverance. There has also been some confusion about families taking children to early childhood education, especially at the beginning. Many guardians have wondered if they were allowed to take their child to day care. One feels guilty while taking away and the other feels distressed about the slow - moving tasks and nervous child next to it. The equation is not easy, especially if the situation continues in this way for longer, and different employers have also taken a different view of the opportunity: others do not allow telework while the child is at home. Families are different, people's coping is different. It is good that there are alternatives, however. It is also a good thing that special support is secured for everyone and that, even in a distance, the student care activities — at least in my own municipality — have been promised to be maintained and offered to all those in need, either at a distance or, if necessary, in the form of personal meetings. The municipal youth activities have also launched online services to which young people can turn with their concerns. I hope that there will be sufficient information on these issues. I am grateful to hear fine examples of distance education, cooperation between teachers, pupils and families, a functional distance where the teacher contacts his students regularly, daily. I hope that such an opportunity will be available to everyone on an equal footing, both for the equipment that has been mentioned here and for the skills of teachers. Of course, it is difficult to develop quickly, but lessons and experiences can be shared. There is also good experience in organising school meals. Many municipalities distribute lunches, for example, out to those who want, i.e. there are safe ways to organize. Hopefully, experience will also be gathered and recommendations made to all municipalities. Together, we have taken responsibility in a challenging situation. I wish for strength for the families, the teachers and the minister as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u92	Mr. Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u93	Mr President! I think at first we should thank the Minister for Education for what has been done now that this news has come, and for these first-to-thirds and so on, because sometimes last Friday, when it was followed up, it seemed that for a part... — well, there were certain political players, perhaps not in this Chamber, but elsewhere who wanted to steer that debate in the wrong direction and, in fact, to blame the government and Parliament. But the practical measures that have now been taken in families and in municipalities show that it has gone ahead of common sense and thought of that health above all and went to that school in the event of forced or non-care or other success. So thank you also to the minister for his active performance on the social media side. On the other hand, the good news is that we have built this system to be very flexible and local. We appeal to the providers of education, to the municipalities who will make the decisions independently. Of course, it is important that we have guidance from the National Board of Education or the Ministry, but yet we have always had this whole system so that the municipalities operate and there are also known the different schools, different ways of working and seeking solutions that would then be the most practically sensible, and that is how it should be. Of course, it simply requires that the instructions are in order and generally that they are given in good time. I would also like, Mr President, to thank above all the teachers in Finland. I must say, they are now facing quite a task. I know from my own experience, I am a teacher from my education that neither myself nor very many colleagues at one point were interested in learning new systems and ways of using these devices. A week ago, I met some of my old colleagues who said that it was now necessary to learn the systems and start making and producing the content through them too. It has been necessary in a certain way, but it has been a good thing. Perhaps this will also teach us how to develop even more one day, even within the Ministry of Education and Culture and within the Finnish National Board of Education, various ways of teaching and learning. Yes, these days the teachers are stretched to considerable accomplishments, for which they are greatly commended and also a token of appreciation. Of course, the question — and I am sure this has been a little discussed here — is these responsibilities and responsibilities: that is, it cannot be that the municipality, as the organiser of education, assumes all responsibility for these students, even if they are in school at a distance, that is, what happens at home, accidents or other, that it is all the responsibility of the municipalities, or what insurance it is covered by, of course there are own accident insurance policies and other things, but how insurance companies view such a situation as this. So we are in a completely new situation, and this has not been the case, but it only comes to the mind, as a municipal decision-maker, of how to deal with these matters and then take them forward. Also from this point of view, a special thank-you and commitment to the Minister of Education in this unprecedented, unforeseeable task.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u94	For this point, the hour allocated at this stage will now be full, and the remainder will go to Minister Andersson. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u95	Mr President! For my part, too, very large and warm thanks to all the representatives for a good debate, appropriate comments and good questions, and perhaps in connection with this message to the parents and guardians of Finland: that is where we are all responsible, and I also think it has been great that, under these exceptional circumstances, Finnish decision-makers have worked together to get that message from this priority for distance education to all homes. A few practical questions raised here, such as student care and school meals: As far as this regulation is concerned, the wording we use is that it must be organised to the extent possible, and it does leave the municipalities a margin of discretion in that regard. We have a lot of municipalities that are then... One example mentioned here is Vantaa, where it is limited to child protection customers, and Lappeenranta has mapped out the situation on a needs-based basis. It's the same thing about student care. In other words, it will continue to enable the services to be maintained and, perhaps through distance or telephone advice, to be provided for students, even if not through face-to-face meetings, even though according to the guidelines of the THL it is possible to do so, provided that these hygiene rules are adhered to. But, especially as regards school food, I myself have stressed that, of course, the organisation should now also take into account what we are trying to do with these exceptional restrictive measures on the part of the education sector too, that is to say, reducing these close contacts, that it must not be forgotten either when arrangements are made in the municipalities, perhaps especially with regard to this school food. We have also had preliminary discussions on whether there are additional financial needs, for example, in relation to these remote educational devices, but at least at this stage it seems that quite a few municipalities have already invested a great deal in these digital learning environments, learning materials and equipment, but this kind of mapping is under way and is under way. Perhaps it may be possible to draw attention to it in general, when many have thanked the education professionals here, that in my opinion the Finnish education system, in this very exceptional situation, has indeed demonstrated its own strength, namely our early childhood education professionals, teachers, principals, workers in education in practice in a day's time, managed to move on to extraordinary teaching arrangements, distance teaching — and even for primary school pupils, to what extent our legislation does not properly know this concept of distance education, but rather has been talked about extraordinary teaching arrangements. In other words, I would also like to thank all the Finns who have worked hard to make this possible and who will, even in the coming weeks, have to do quite a bit of work in order to maintain this. As has been pointed out in many speeches, this is by no means a problem in any way, in terms of, for example, learning differences, family situations, the ability of teachers to cope with them. It is known that it is more challenging to support students in need of support in such a situation: although those in particular support the decision and extended compulsory education can receive contact education from their own school, we do have a large number of other students, for whom we are not now in a position to guarantee the support of learning in the same way as in normal school, and we also know that family situations vary a great deal. When it was stated here that the number of 1 to 3 graders has not increased at this stage, although this line had to be specified, we will now follow this all the time through the Finnish National Board of Education and Regional State Administrative Agencies, so that we have an overall idea of how many students we have in Finland in close proximity education. But, as many representatives have said, the further this goes, the more challenging this situation unfortunately becomes, and it is then reflected in the parents ’ coping, it is reflected in the growing problems of family livelihoods, and it is also evident that then these educational arrangements will become more and more challenging to maintain. That is why we need a lot of investment now, a lot of cooperation with both the teachers and the Finnish National Board of Education, to get this situation done as well as possible from the point of view of Finnish young people and our quality education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u96	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. At this same plenary session, the proceedings will continue once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u97	We shall now proceed to the 4th reading of item suspended earlier in this plenary session. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u98	Mr President! Indeed, we are now dealing with a new Government regulation amending Article 3 of the Government Decree on temporary restrictions on the obligation to organise early childhood education and education. That was what we had in the Committee on Education last week, and we made a statement on it. Since then, the Constitutional Committee sent this to the Government, and now we have this new regulation here. Tomorrow, then, we will be discussing the report that the Constitutional Committee will issue. However, as a committee proposal and as a statement, we stress that the organiser of education is obliged to inform as soon as possible all pupils and guardians of the services of the school and educational institution, including the education services, which it is possible to carry out during the period of validity of the Government Decree and how those who need them should act in order to obtain them. After all, it is really great that, on the other hand, this remote education was quickly launched. However, it must be remembered that compulsory education remains and that care must be taken of distance education. But thank you to everyone, to the staff of the education service and to the early childhood education staff and to teachers and other staff for being well-started. Of course, a lot of flexibility has had to be made, and there is still much to be developed, but as a committee we want to send out a message that a good start has been made. I would like to remind you that, for example, school meals and student care are the kind of things that we will be working on tomorrow. It came up when we made this statement last week. We in the committee consider it very important that the various authorities coordinate their provisions and instructions in such a way as to convey a clear and unambiguous picture to the public in a way that is understandable to the public. We have many immigrants in Finland. It is important that everyone is informed in an understandable way. The Ministry of Education and Culture and the Finnish National Board of Education have a special responsibility to provide clear guidance to the various organisers on the aspects of legal protection of children and students taking into account the most uniform provisions. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs stresses that, during the state of emergency now decided and possibly prolonged, the relevant authorities must carefully monitor and assess the impact of the proposed decisions restricting services, particularly on the most vulnerable children and young people. The committee also stresses that children and young people have very varied opportunities to learn and adopt new things without adequate contact teaching, and must, therefore, also — if and when distance education is, of course, the main rule, which has also been well-informed and said by the Minister of Education — then take care of the support education, so that it will certainly be dealt with in a situation where there are pupils with such special needs. And in future, we will have to think about how, in the future, if the learning path is threatened with problems, they can be removed, but that is the period after this acute crisis. In this opinion, the Committee also notes that it takes a great deal for children, young people and teachers, other staff and organisers to carry out education and other activities under exceptional circumstances. Exceptional arrangements require flexibility from the various parties involved. It is important that restrictions are interpreted in a permissive manner, taking into account the rights of the child and the young person. The committee also considers it necessary for the providers of education and training to prepare carefully and systematically for a return to the normal situation. It is important to ensure that students and students receive the support they need so that they can continue their studies as well as possible during this special period, but also after that. It is also important that the organisers covered by the Regulation receive adequate guidance for the decision-making process. This applies both to general decision-making on limitation of activities and to individual decisions, with possible rights of appeal. What came out of that field during the weekend tells us that there was still some of that uncertainty, but I'm sure this early week will be a better start. Once again, thank you for your flexibility and professional staff. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u99	Mr President! In crisis situations, it is important to provide correct information and clear instructions. As far as guidance is concerned, this matter of distance education is not entirely successful, and municipalities and families have had to make decisions in a state of uncertainty. The change of direction has been regrettable and, as the message of a change of line went to the field in part unclear terms, the risk of children returning to school on a wider scale was the spread of the corona virus. I'm glad this didn't happen. There has been a good talk here today about the right of children to learn. However, now, in the face of an exceptional health threat, it is essential to find ways of securing it, in the first place, other than local education. True, remote education can be challenging for some children and young people, especially smaller children. Particular attention must therefore be paid to obtaining adequate support for pupils and teachers in this difficult situation. In this situation, too, it is necessary to ensure the continuity of the services provided by student and student services. In addition, provision must be made for the organisation of support education and other support measures to be made for a long time after the crisis that is taking place. As a specific question, I would like to draw attention to school meals. According to the previous decision, it was voluntary, but no more detailed instructions came, and now we see the situation in the municipalities of Finland that we have very varied interpretations of this and that people get school food with different rights. For many children and young people, however, school food is the only warm meal of the day. This concern particularly concerns children and young people in the most vulnerable situations and families whose livelihoods are tight. So that these children and young people do not miss out on proper food, school food should succeed for those who need it so organized that the risk of spreading the corona virus does not increase. The municipalities have already developed different models for this since lunch bags, and I believe that there are certainly good solutions to be distributed there. But this is something on which I hope we will stop again in the name of equality between the whole country and children. What can then be learned from the changed guidelines of the past week for the follow-up: Firstly, municipalities need clear guidelines to organise services in such a situation and also financial support in this challenging situation. The government must take decisions that govern municipalities. On the other hand, what can then be learned at human level: people need a clear main message. I know that many families have been wondering this weekend whether to put a child in school or not if it is a small child. It is important that all children who can at all times continue to study from home. It is important in this situation of coronavirus and in the prevention of the epidemic, from that point of view. It is important to avoid all extra contacts, and we know that there are a lot of them in school life. This will protect both teachers and families. And the support that is needed, whether in terms of support for learning, psychosocial support or school food, must only be provided to support this distance education. Finally, I would like to express my warm thanks to the teachers, the principals and everyone in the school staff. You have done a great job in a difficult situation and in digital pedagogy within a week you have taken a real, phenomenal leap. When I have followed this leap and this development in distance education through my own children, I can say that I am very proud of the Finnish school once again and even in this critical situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u100	Mr President! This amendment to the law on early childhood education, education and education regarding our situation and preparedness laws is extremely well-founded and commendablely fast prepared. For that, thank you to the Minister of Education and the staff of the Ministry of Education. Excellent stretch from the entire government. What I pay attention to is that, yes, one must admire the stretching ability of the teachers and the people who work it in general. I just read in the main newspaper of North Karelia about Karelia how the teacher at the Heinävaara school has arranged the training so cleverly that there the teacher arranges a conference for students in the morning through a video of this kind, where the students are going through what is being done today. Then through the Internet, the students get the assignments. Exercise has also been arranged, and it is said that there is a description of how students perform different stretches at home, for example, after sports performance. So this describes the fact that the digital world makes almost anything possible. The teacher supervises it, and when homework is given, then they return online for the teacher to check out, and then they also receive feedback on how the assignment went. First of all, a big thank you to these teachers and all those involved: organisers and parents, of course, and to hard-working students, above all, that they are fully involved. Of course, a video conference in the morning will begin during normal school hours, not to pull a hip, but to be actively involved in the educational work that is done by means of communication tools in the morning. But what is still missing in this country — I think I have spoken about it dozens of times, and I will mention it again — is fast fibre optic connections across the country. Think of it now, if one day there will be bigger problems. It is true that if the entire communication traffic in us collapses, then, of course, no message will pass, but under normal circumstances these fast communication connections, optical fibre connections will be invaluable because they will also ensure the functioning of society in times of crisis much, much better. From the point of view of health care, it is absolutely necessary and equally necessary for companies. The fasiliation that is necessary for all people, which needs to be put in order, and 99.9% of everything is connected to this house. Will we finally, and finally, achieve a complete consensus in this House that these structural funds, which the EU offers us, should be used more fairly to build these fibre optics? I have been talking about this for a long time, over many parliamentary periods, and there is always some obstacle. There's some kind of investment shelter or some kind of artificial barrier that I'm sure has been artificially built so that it's not just built in Finland. It is clear that these connections do not arise on a market-based basis. It requires a strong parliamentary steering hand and the amounts of money that we can get from the EU. From the point of view of education, and from the point of view of this matter currently under discussion, these communications connections are invaluable and it is still amazing that this issue is still in progress in this country. Let's say this is the last warning that these things need to be put right. I hope that Parliament will intervene in this in the near future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u101	Mr President! This amendment to the Regulation is justified because the previous Regulation was not sufficiently unambiguous. I am convinced that all the families who can keep their children home in home school are now doing so. On the other hand, society's strollers must be kept running as well as possible, and if parents' working is dependent on small schoolchildren learning, it is important for the functioning of society. Mr President! In this context, I too would like to thank the competent and professional teachers who, on a really fast schedule, were able to change their teaching to distance teaching and to make it possible for no one to break up in school. Of course, for some pupils, distance learning is a major difficulty, and therefore municipalities should now ensure that children receive enough personal support not only for teaching but also for learning. There is a lot of important work for school assistants, school psychologists, school curators and also cultural workers in the municipalities, and instead of layoffs, we should consider how to transfer the work done by different professionals to the Internet and by telephone. The need for student care has not disappeared, rather the opposite. Many children now need it more than ever. For example, not all families have the resources to monitor children’s studies at home, and this can be done by a school assistant, for example, by telephone. On the other hand, we need to think about how, after the crisis, we can make it possible for all students to get back to their normal learning path if we have not done as well as we should during this home school. For example, those moving from the ninth to the second grade are particularly challenging, who should now receive a comprehensive school emission certificate in the spring. Of course, we have groups of people other than home schoolchildren who need special support and help to cope with the crisis, and I hope that instead of lay-offs, the municipalities will think in a sufficiently broad and creative way about how workers could move on to these tasks during the crisis. Mr President! We have many children whose only warm meal a day has been a school meal, and for these children the corona epidemic has a particularly negative effect. I understand, and it is self-evident that mass meals cannot be arranged, but I hope that the municipalities will be able to find out about families who need help and, in one way or another, to ensure that children get a decent meal every day. It certainly requires creativity, but it can be arranged if there is a will. Finally, Mr President, many families are now in a very tight position to cope. A mother sent me a message today to read a direct quote. It reads as follows: ‘In our family, both parents have increased the number of jobs at the workplace in an exceptional situation, i.e. more We have to work overtime, and there are day-care centres and two schoolchildren at home, one of whom is facing learning challenges. They're so big they can't go to school anymore. This whole thing is really hard to handle. Our parents' working days last from morning to night, but primary school students, at least if there are learning challenges, clearly need full-time adult support for distance learning. This will not be easy for us.” This is how different situations are now in families, and the psychological support of families should now be developed in municipalities. I am pleased to note today that the Federation of Child Welfare has prepared a parent’s survival guide for coronavirus quarantine and home education. This is on the Internet under this name. I warmly recommend that you get to know and share this link, because there were really good guidelines and tips for this difficult situation in the family there. In this context, I would also like to thank the Confederation of Child Welfare for its rapid response to the need for help and support from parents.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u102	Mr President! I reserved this speech at the time when the Minister was still here. I would have asked him what number of children are currently in comprehensive school in the context of local education, when the starting point is that we are in distance education. I understand that the Minister has already stressed that, although this new proposal for a regulation, the revision of the regulation, is being made here in connection with the preparedness laws, the basic principle remains this distance learning. That is clear, as we have just heard from Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen in the previous speech, that this regulation is about ensuring that the children of the most critical professionals, the smallest children, have to ensure that local schooling and schooling, it was a little unclear and it is more natural that we actually want to ensure it for all the young children who need to go to school in the form of local education. I know this situation well from that Vantaa. There are a lot of vulnerable families in our suburbs, on the basis of which one can well assess its situation — for example, this school meal has been referred to here — that it is impossible, in fact, for these smallest children to imagine that this education would be properly organised in the area of distance education, because family conditions are difficult in that sense. And in that respect it is very important that this aspect is also involved and that this correction of the regulation, which is now being made here, makes sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u103	Mr President! In many speeches, reference has been made to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which was adopted on 20 November 1989. [on the second representative’s telephone] I am raising a number of points from this agreement which should be taken into account when we consider the functioning of this school system in exceptional circumstances. In other words, the rights of the child are fulfilled or are not realised specifically in everyday life. Here are the following things: No one should be discriminated against. The child’s best interests must always be taken into account first. A child has the right to live with his parents. — That is, of course, very good at the moment. — The child is entitled to information. A child has the right to privacy and family life. The child has the right to receive information from the media. The child should be protected from material harmful to his welfare. — Now that we are using digital education and information is online, this is also the kind of guidance that children need. — The child must be protected against all forms of violence, indifferent treatment and abuse. — Today we have discussed the problems of families, which can grow under abnormal conditions, and the cooperation of the authorities is needed. — — — — The special needs of a disabled child should be taken into account, and they should enjoy a full and good life. — — — — This must be taken into account in the implementation. — — — — The child is entitled to social security. A child has the right to attend comprehensive school free of charge. Education must develop the child’s abilities. A child has the right to rest, play and leisure. Here's a few withdrawals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u104	Mr President! These regulations on temporary restrictions are, of course, very necessary. Although the regulations changed for an understandable reason in themselves, they caused confusion in the field. That, of course, indicates that we are in an exceptional situation. And as long as people do things, imperfections are possible. President! The more time goes by, we may also be in a situation where family and parents are starting to experience tournament fatigue, and that is why we, as representatives and all those involved in the field, must also be able to send out an unambiguous message that the place for children and children at the moment is at home, if at all possible. Another thing, and an important one, is that in these exceptional times, in one way or another, we can support families and homes in these situations where parents may be doing their job, help children in home education, worry about their own livelihoods and the future of the family in general. And in the name of realism, it must also be mentioned that, if these existing means, which are currently in place, are not enough, even in the school world and in the educational world, more and more powerful means must also be prepared. Now, if ever, we need a perspective where we need to focus all our attention only on the core issues and leave the rest of the fuss behind. It is clear that municipalities, education providers, schools need unambiguous guidance, but also local flexibility, local conditions, must be allowed. Often there is the greatest and supreme understanding of how to cope with these extraordinary times.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u105	Mr President! For the past week, I have had the opportunity to follow the beginning of distance learning in three different schools and three different schools. All credit to the faculty who have had to improvise at very short notice. Of course, teaching practices are quite varied, but perhaps and hopefully align themselves with time. Distance learning is suitable for students who are capable of independent, disciplined work and whose parents are able to support their children in their studies and everyday life. Unfortunately, not all children are in such a good situation. Learning differences between regions, between girls and boys, between Finnish children and children with an immigrant background are very large, and in this last group it is one of the largest in the OECD countries. There is a considerable risk that distance learning, especially in the long run, will further increase these gaps. None of us knows how long this situation will continue, probably for several months anyway. I think it is utopia to imagine that, after the crisis, there would be enough additional resources for student care and support education to repair the damage caused by the school closure. The closure of schools is definitely the only right solution for controlling the epidemic. However, the problems it poses today and especially in the future should not be underestimated. I have no patent solution to those problems myself, but it would be worth considering, for example, suspending the semester and putting children on leave now and extending the semester in the summer, if the situation allows. This could be done at least in the case of younger students than in the 9th grade, where early leave would not affect the completion of comprehensive school and the transition to secondary school. Mr President! I would stress that the problem is not with the quality of distance teaching and teachers' work. The problem lies in the different capacities of children and especially of families to cope with this situation. I take this opportunity to thank the teachers of my children and all the other Finnish teachers for stretching in this special situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u106	Mr President! Indeed, schools are now operating in a special situation and, if we are to be honest, there are currently very different practices between schools and municipalities. That's just the way it is. In such a situation, the clear instructions and regulations of the authorities are highlighted, and so much must be said to the episode of last Friday afternoon that, I hope, this is where the apprenticeships were paid. On Friday afternoon at 3 p.m., schools will receive new information on how to take this school forward on Monday — of course there is much room for improvement. But in any case, clear instructions are a and o. This applies to both ministries, the National Board of Education and the municipal school authorities. I say this as a former school director how to think about these things, namely that there are situations across Finland that are actually required of the principals and teachers more than just what belongs to them, i.e. doing their own teaching. To that end, we have the authorities who decide on the lines to run the school. Teachers teach, principals build that school education in this exceptional situation. So the sum summarum: in all areas, crisis leadership is required, also on the school side. But, Mr President, I would also like to point out that when there is concern here about how young people are doing in distance education, I also say that young people are good at adapting to different situations, both young people and children, and I am convinced that this distance learning situation can be handled in a reasonably elegant way. It takes parents to get involved in the control there at home playing and working, doing the things the school requires. And here we are doing this sort of superdigilosis in a few days — if you think positively, then maybe it will be for the future something useful. I would like to pick up on what Mrs Halla-aho has just said. With this experience in the field of education, I say that perhaps a month and a half can go forward with these methods and there will then be no more breakdown, but, in the event of a prolonged crisis, the Ministry of Education will also have to assess very critically and resolve the big issues: should the semester possibly be extended in June — it is apparently possible to add a few days with some minor legislative changes — or will it really have to be decided at some point that the term is now here? It can come before us very quickly, and then you have to think that when life goes on and school goes on, how do you go on in the fall? But at some point you also have to know how to whistle on this side of the game. But to conclude, after thanking teachers and school operators, this has been a great plague in a few days, and Finnish students are in good hands when Finnish teachers and teaching staff teach them in a changed situation. I would also like to express my thanks here for the work that has been done so far and will continue to be done in the spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u107	Mr President! Last week really challenged us in families. Since we have nearly 600,000 elementary school students, there were very different situations there in the activities of distance education and telework and various forms of distance support. Yes, the parents made half a week of worried calls. Many were concerned about their own survival, but surprisingly many were also concerned about whether everyone could have a warm meal and whether everyone could get support for that distance education from their parents and what the family situation is like with regard to the very different income problems and other problems of substance abuse and violence. However, in our Basic Education Act it is our responsibility and the responsibility to organise the municipality to guarantee the right of the child to learn in a safe environment in all situations. Now that the safe environment for that distance education is inside the home, it also challenges various support measures, whether for school cranes or others. In some situations they work really well, but we also need to recognise and recognise that it is not able to do everything that has been possible within the walls of the school, in the same way. Of course, thanks are due to teachers and principals and school staff for the speed with which, in practice, one day’s withdrawal time, this distance education was transferred. Then on Friday, there were some worried messages. We probably all received the messages that we've been working for the second week on distance education, and now that Friday's policy of opening up contact education to all first- and third-graders and special support for students was very scary for many school teachers, and fortunately it was also specified. In other words, Mr President, the municipalities need clear guidelines. If we really do have less than 600,000 elementary school children — that group is huge — and, of course, even if we live in a way that is capable of dealing with this wretched virus epidemic in the smallest regions, we cannot afford to have our children and young people not learning in the coming weeks, and at least we cannot afford someone to feel that he is being cut off more strongly from society and the school world because we are going to have to take really drastic measures even in the school world. And even though we are going there until Easter at least, I feel that it is important for us to follow and hopefully the government to follow and evaluate the week by week and day that it is also possible to prepare for that period after Easter, whether distance education continues or contact education, whether the term is extended or extended, whether to stop, whether to stop. It would also be important for the estimates that will be made in the coming weeks to be visible here in Parliament as a basis for decision-making. The Basic Education Act currently allows the term to be extended for only six days, and of course everyone understands that it is too little. Mr President! Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u108	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the government for adopting this regulation and amending it. I am well aware that this had to be given now, because it was clearly impossible to list critical areas. I understand the harm that this has done to the municipalities and to the teachers now, but I would like to stress that it is probably the last of our concerns, which we now have in this serious crisis, that a little bit of this had to be done. I would also like to stress to everyone that, as easy as it sounds, the state cannot unequivocally dictate everything to the citizens, but we all have a responsibility to our own health, to the health of our fellow citizens, and we must also exercise that responsibility, as it seems now: even though we have allowed the first and third graders to come to school, if the parents so see, the number of students has fallen significantly, just as it should have been. I would also like to say here that Mrs Halla-aho's proposal is something I would like to see evaluated at the Ministry of Education. It might make sense that the semester should now be suspended and extended at some point at a later stage. Of course it creates difficulties in terms of, for example, holidays and other planning, but, in this case, it is probably the most important thing for everyone that we ensure the rights of children, the right of children to receive good education and the right of everyone to remain involved in this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u109	Mr President! The majority of Finns are very responsible for our efforts to slow down and combat the spread of the corona virus. This is also reflected in the fact that, although the regulation has now been amended, schools and day-care centres are still clearly the only ones for whom it is absolutely necessary. Since Monday, there has been no particularly large number of students in the schools. This is now until Easter, but unfortunately it is likely or doubtful that this will continue for longer, and then it is extremely important to consider some aspects, such as the livelihood of families — it is not self-evident that parents will be able to stay away from work for weeks to provide remote education for their children — that is, how we will secure the livelihood of families during this period. We simply have to find a solution. Families cannot be without another parent’s or sole parent’s salary to care for children at home. The second question, of course, is that, if this is prolonged, how can we better provide support education at a distance — I know that teachers are already providing support education at a distance, but it requires new solutions — and, above all, it is not easy for families to work at home at a distance and, at the same time, try to take care of children in day care or in early education and, at the same time, to provide remote education in primary school. This is a very heavy whole, and I am sure many have understood the value of the work done by teachers, now that they themselves have tried to provide this distance education at home. So these are the problems, the challenges that need to be resolved now, regardless of this regulation, if and when this situation is likely to be prolonged in the future. I am not quite sure that, at this point in time, we should break off school year and start it sometime, perhaps months from now, would be the solution by which this situation improves, at least in this way, but I think that, in the days and weeks, this distance education will improve when experience is gained, and that our teachers will be able to give and find those pain points even better. But this issue of livelihood is one that requires a solution, and then the support measures that better support families in coping with these many challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u110	Mr President! I will comment on this myself. Now we have to remember all the time that we've only gone a quarter of a mile. So we still have a long way to go here and possibly another wave and so on. Now we have to remember all the time that now we are creating that future together, and in it we have to keep our heads cold and our hearts warm, because we have to create those practices that will then carry us further. Among other things, there was talk of what Mr Arhinmäki said well, that there would be financial problems, that there might also be a tightening of nerves, and it is precisely the kind of tournament fatigue, combat fatigue, that we must take into account here. And we must remember that all that we can do from here, to make it easier for parents and teachers and authorities, must be done. But when it came to the fact that now suddenly the semester would be interrupted, so that it would be done just now, when we have got the machines started — I do not support it in any way, for many reasons: because now if we suddenly said by the way, now we will stop this exercise, what we have done here, it will be a disaster for this society once and for all. Then think about this: Although everyone now has to be flexible and is in a tight situation, it still brings such a certain order into this society. Now, if one suddenly started off in summer pastures, so to speak, that would mean that even these risks of infection would increase. That you have to keep remembering what we're doing with these changes. We are making them that we can reduce this burden of disease, and that we can precisely soften it and delay it for the worst time, and that is how it will also be reduced — this will prolong this situation, but will reduce this situation and its capacity will then be better maintained. That we're just going to keep this disipline on and our backs straight and our heads cold and our hearts warm. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u111	Mr President! Congressman Kivisaari brought out the tournament resistance here. In fact, it plays a very important role at the moment. Now it seems that since last week to this week the number of students has not risen much, although there are big local differences. But as we move forward, there will be real financial and coping problems for families, and that will certainly lower the threshold to put those children there in school. And then, if the pre-school and primary school pupils start to be full again, then these other major activities, such as what we are now doing, are watering down restaurants and bars. So that's something we have to follow very closely all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u112	Mr President! When a discussion arose about this continuation of the spring semester, I shall repeat what I was thinking. So as far as distance education is concerned, I see the situation so that, with these arrangements, we can move on quite smoothly for a month and a half, but I do now have the courage to suspect that after that we will have to start to wonder whether the objectives of education can be achieved over a longer period of time, with more than one month in distance education. So in a few weeks’ time, we will probably have to assess whether this is a meaningful way of taking the teaching forward. After all, in June we may be able to continue teaching for a few days, but perhaps it will come to mind in early May that this should be the case for this school year. Yes, such an assessment may have to be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u113	Mr President! I, too, would like to think about this idea, which Mr Halla-aho has mentioned, that the school year should be closed here shortly and take a fair amount of summer leave, even if it were to start a little earlier in the autumn or something similar, or if it were to be completed in June. In some ways, however, I am going to join Mr Risikko and Mr Arhinmäki in the counter-thinking of whether or not to put his head in the sand in a situation where entrepreneurs are now required to be innovative in order to develop new products, new activities, in these exceptional circumstances. This is the same thing, innovation in the school system, which means that this distance education is now testing its operating methods. I'm a little shy of that remote education myself when I'm so helpless in that digital world, but it's controlled by young people. There will certainly be new methods and insights about teaching itself. What is important, however, is that, even under these exceptional circumstances, this society is trying as far as possible and we are now taking care of and finding the innovative solutions to adapt to this exceptional situation. Let's not put our heads in the sand.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u114	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SIVM 3/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u115	Mr President! As chairman of the committee, I would like to present the report of this committee. It is therefore proposed to change the composition of the board of directors of the Institute of Criminology and Justice so that in future the Ministry of Justice will appoint five members of the Board instead of the current four. The board would no longer be composed of a member appointed by the Ministry of Education and Culture. The committee shall give the reasons for this: The Institute of Criminology and Legal Policy is a research institute operating in connection with the University of Helsinki. It conducts independent criminological and judicial research, taking into account the information needs of the Ministry of Justice and society. It monitors and analyses crime, the functioning of crime control and sanctioning systems, legal conditions and the impact of legislation, and reports on their development. It shall also maintain a research register necessary for it to carry out its statutory tasks. From the beginning of 2015, the Institute has become part of the University of Helsinki. Its activities are governed and supervised by the Executive Board referred to in Article 2 of Act 1139/2007 on the Institute of Crimea and Justice, which is appointed by the Rector of the University of Helsinki. The Board consists of nine members, of which four are appointed by the Ministry of Justice and one by the Ministry of Education and Culture. In addition, the Institute’s staff shall elect one member from among their number. According to the Government proposal, the Ministry of Justice will in future appoint five members of the Board of Directors instead of the current four, and thus no longer include members designated by the Ministry of Education and Culture. According to the presentation, it is no longer necessary for the Ministry of Education and Culture to be represented on the Institute’s Board of Directors once the Institute’s activities have been consolidated as part of the University of Helsinki. The Institute’s research, monitoring and other activities are targeted at matters covered by the Ministry of Justice’s activities. The Ministry of Justice and the University of Helsinki support the proposal. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Culture considers it necessary and appropriate, and the committee proposes the adoption of the draft law contained in the Government's proposal without amendment. I would just like to say a few words about the financing of the Institute's activities, because it rose there during the committee hearing. The Government's proposal states that the Institute of Crimeanology and Legal Policy will be taken into account in the funding of the state of the University of Helsinki as a national task. According to a survey of approximately EUR 2 million per year, which corresponds to the Institute’s previous level of funding, the state funding submitted to the Institute on the basis of its national mission. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has raised concerns about the future financing of the Institute and its security. According to the expert opinion, some preliminary discussions have suggested the removal of special funding for a specific national task from the Institute and the transfer of the Institute to the University of Helsinki as an integral part of the funding. According to a report received by the committee, the agreement between the University of Helsinki and the Ministry on the university's objectives and appropriations for the years 21 to 24 will take place in June. The following period of agreement, i.e. between 25 and 28, is not decided in this context. The next revision of the university funding model is intended to assess the relevance and need of each national task on a case-by-case basis. In its report, the Ministry announces that it will contribute to the agreed financial obligation. The Education Committee stresses the importance of the specific national role of the Institute of Crimeanology and Justice at the level of legislation and law-making. The Committee considers it very important that the Ministry of Education and Culture in the future carefully evaluates the impact of the planned changes to the university's financing model on the Institute's ability to carry out the important specific task assigned to it. But, as I said, our proposal for a decision on this actual government proposal is that Parliament should accept the bill contained in the Government proposal 11/2020 without amendment. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u116	Thank you to the chairman of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u117	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Chairman of the Committee, Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u118	Mr President! A draft law on the organisation of water management and marine management is being discussed and a draft law on the environmental impact assessment procedure is being amended. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection dealt with this matter carefully in consultation with experts, adopted a unanimous report. I would like to stress that there are very minor issues in this area from the point of view of the whole. It is a question of extending, if necessary, the implementation of these management plans. If natural conditions have been difficult and its management plan has not been implemented due to force majeure, this amendment of the law will allow for an extension. Similarly, this draft law amends the fact that environmental impact assessments often involve different sampling and collection under those terrain conditions. This change in legislation will then give the authority precise limits and instructions on how to act in the performance of his duties. On the face of it, a very trivial law. But, as the current Constitution says, we must always legislate on rights and obligations for citizens. And here, Mr President, the big thing comes up. Now that the rights and responsibilities of the authority are entered in the performance of this post, which is his right to evidence, I would like to stress that another issue arises in this context. If the President will allow, a brief example of future decisions: large nature reserves are currently being planned in Finland, where hunting rights are being abolished in practice from very many areas, such as my municipality of residence. The Ministry of the Environment is seriously of the opinion that this is just a matter for the power of regulation. This is by no means the case. If, in terms of marine management plans and environmental impact assessments, there is a need to change the law — so that sampling can have precise limits on what can be done under the law — and that requires a change of law, as is the case with this proposal — then when huge areas are being removed from hunting grounds and people's rights are being violated — and it is supposed to be a matter that only happens under the power of regulation — then this should be borne in mind, Mr President, on such an important issue. This is a very minor matter, but what I have just mentioned is very serious and very far-reaching. I hope that Parliament will remember this when, for example, hunting issues are discussed next, that under the current constitution, citizens' rights and obligations must always be taken into account. You can't operate with settings.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u119	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen did raise an extremely important point of view here. As he said: even though this is a minor, minor matter, it must be kept in mind that it sets clear limits on the activities of the authority. And, like Mr Hoskosen, I share this concern that, for example, now that these new nature reserves are being planned, they would only be there by a regulation-level decision to abolish the existing rights of citizens to hunting and possibly to fishing and also to other natural products, such rights which they already have. It cannot be done unequivocally. I also hope, as Mr Hoskosen did, that Parliament will remember this. Let us ensure that we are well placed in this country for these traditional pursuits and the practice of traditional lifestyles in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u120	Mr President! Here are the big words: ‘Something is trivial’ but ‘infinitively important’—the expression and the expression of both. If someone is extremely important, it goes a little to the point that you are not quite sure what the speaker means. In this regard, it does seem to make sense. When it comes to fundamental rights, it would seem that the regulation alone is not sufficient, and this legal procedure, which Mr Hoskonen has presented here, makes sense at least to me — I know nothing of its infinitely important importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u121	Let us try to keep this debate on this subject, ladies and gentlemen. Let's not go any further than the sea.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u122	Mr President! I am not going to the sea either, so I am sorry, but Mr Hoskose's speech was very good. In this context, I have a question, essentially, that when legislation is adopted, in general the obligation to adopt a regulation or to adopt a regulation or this type of regulation is always in the explanatory memorandum of the law. If the committee so wishes, it may demand that the regulation be adopted by Parliament, and that is something that must be taken into account in future legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u123	And the chairman of the committee, Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u124	Mr President! This is precisely the case when this small law is being amended, specifically the environmental impact assessment law. This bill shall be proof that, when the authority acts — is carrying out a legal assessment of the environmental impact, even if it concerns a project — he is now given clear rights under the law to carry out the samples and ground inspections. A perfectly logical and quite clear message from Parliament on how to act. In the spirit of the new constitution, we must put these obligations in the law, and that is what we are doing. The question of a single act — sampling, although water sampling on the shore — is very minor, but it is also recorded in the law that this should be done. Why, then, in some big context, is the law on a huge number of people overruled by a decree? It can't be that way. It is true that Parliament must be rigid in that people's rights are adhered to, and if rights are restricted or even given additional rights, they are always regulated by law. That is the duty of the Parliament. And I understand Mr Kiljunen's excellent speech that he, as a person who knows the law a great deal, knows how to manage these dimensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u125	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u126	Mr President! At the session at 4 p.m. today, the government decided on a new measure to slow down the spread of the corona virus. This virus is new, and mankind has no resistance to this virus now. There is no vaccine for this either, as we know, at least yet, and no specific medical treatment. And we also know that this disease is transmitted as a droplet infection in close contact between people. Thus, the most important way to avoid the spread of the disease is to avoid close contact between people. We also know that this infection can occur before the symptoms begin. However, the majority of infections do not occur until symptoms break out. Therefore, on the basis of the knowledge of THL and a large number of experts, the scientific team, the Ministry of Science and Technology, a law has now been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture, aimed at reducing close contact between people where this highly contagious disease is spreading. For this reason, the Government argues that for all restaurant activities, restaurant operators must stop offering products to customers at the restaurant premises. This now applies to all cafes, pubs, nightclubs and food restaurants. However, the sale of products would be allowed, as is the case today. Thus, in practice, these products should not be enjoyed in indoors and outdoor terraces or outdoors. The law is fixed-term and valid until the end of May. If this situation suddenly became significantly better, the government will also be prepared to dismantle this restriction earlier. In practice, therefore, restaurant facilities — neither indoors nor outdoor terraces nor other outdoors — are not allowed to serve or drink food or beverages. Products purchased as self-service must also not remain in these restaurant premises. It is possible to sell out directly to the customer and through food delivery services or delivery services, as is the case now. Staff canteens in the workplace, as well as restaurants in schools, kindergartens, hospitals or, for example, care homes for the elderly and nursing homes, should continue to be open. The legislation on the restriction of the opening hours of restaurants is now intended to be put into effect as soon as possible, within the processing time required by Parliament. I would therefore like to thank Parliament and the Council of Presidents for the very flexible way in which things are handled, as soon as we have got this right here today for the referral debate, and I would also like to thank Parliament for being prepared to deal with matters quickly. It has been thought that the term of validity of this law is in line with the government's recommendation of 12 March, which therefore recommended that all public events of more than 500 persons have been cancelled until the end of May. These are the words used to introduce the matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u127	I noticed that Mr Kärnä's request to speak was here at first, but it had gone away. But let's trust there was some kind of technical damage. — In other words, Mr Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u128	Mr President! Thank you, and thank you to the Minister for the introduction. Thank you also to the whole government, and also to the opposition, for the fact that this important and tough restriction measure is now being taken. At the same time, I would also like to thank those tourism and restaurant entrepreneurs who have already voluntarily closed their business to prevent the spread of the corona virus. However, I am undeniably concerned that this is a very tough economic decision. We are talking about EUR 5.3 billion of business on an annual basis and about some 50,000 jobs, and entrepreneurs in the SME sector in particular will be in real trouble after this decision. We need strong support for them now. I am glad that the government's proposal does not limit the sale-out activity which is currently also possible for alcoholic beverages with a maximum of 5.5%. I am concerned, however, that only about 300 companies in our 8,400 restaurants have such a license, and I would like the government to consider giving this authorisation now, with this legislation, to all genuinely be granted that, in the context of a person's visit to get food, it would also be possible for him to have at least these 5.5% alcoholic beverages. In fact, I would also like to consider what, of course, we need a change in alcohol law, that we can sell out of restaurants and possibly also bring home alcoholic beverages, for example, under 15%. Here I encourage you to follow the example of Australia, which made such a decision. In Australia, customers can now buy and order these slightly stronger drinks as well, because we have to acknowledge the fact that a large part of these alcoholic beverages are taken from the restaurant business. In fact, as a personal statement, I wonder whether, although I am prepared to close up Alko's stores and make these private restaurants sell it to the public, because in this situation I believe that we should not protect the state monopoly, but, above all, together, protect our private entrepreneurs, our SMEs, and ensure that we have a restaurant business in this country, even after this corona crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u129	Mr President! Today, in the context of the amending budget, we heard and discussed the government's efforts to facilitate the situation in companies. Today, Minister of Finance, Mr Kulmuni, recently commented on this closure of restaurants and said that the decision was a tough one but was taken for the benefit of human health. He also said that, in addition to the measures already announced, companies will need a lot more support and that this will be prepared quickly. This is very important now, and I believe that this will receive the full support of Parliament. The concern about the livelihood of entrepreneurs and the sustainability of our country's economy is common to all of us, and we are now taking truly exceptional, truly exceptional measures for the sake of human health and safety. Mr President! When it comes to actions for the sake of human health and well-being, citizens too have become very supportive of these actions. This restaurant closure has also been hoped for by many restaurants themselves, and many restaurants have already put a note at the door, so to speak. For example, in my own hometown of Oulu, these notes have appeared. There are restaurants, nightclubs, cafes, bars already closed, and the message of many of the restaurant owners has been that when such an order to close would come from the government they might then, for example, be able to obtain compensation through insurance. This government proposal would make it possible to sell out products, and this proposal states that this will benefit, for example, operators providing food delivery services whose demand for services is increasing. Now, too, I think it is particularly important to consider whether we have the opportunity to take such swift action on these restaurants so that they can develop their activities, particularly in relation to this out-of-commerce. With regard to that sale of alcohol in general, I agree very much with Mr Kärnä, but now that we are dealing with measures for the sake of human health and well-being, I believe that this dismantling of the restrictions on the sale of alcohol would be in complete contradiction to the issue itself and I do not support it. There is a lot of good in this government proposal, and now I hope that we will also be able to move quickly to secure the operation of these companies. This proposal also mentions these staff restaurants, which the Minister also pointed out. I would like to ask the Minister: are there any guidelines or regulations that will ensure that there are also staff restaurants — schools, old people’s homes, prisons and other places — that these safety distances are maintained and that larger gatherings are avoided so as to avoid spreading these infections as well as possible there? I hope that this will proceed quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u130	Mr President! The government's proposal is justified. As the explanatory statement states, it is in restaurants that human contact is so intense that droplet contamination is very possible. Infectivity and this R0 value need to be addressed in order for health care to withstand an increasing load of corona, and this proposal is in itself in line with the previous measures to limit this systematic disease. A good example of legislation that smartly seeks the balance between restrictions and continuity of operations is the possibility of collecting and keeping staff nutrition conditions and the like open. However, this is a huge blow to this sector, and although some of the measures that have been put forward to support entrepreneurs and businesses in the past respond to the attack, it is clear that this sector is the type of sector that is subject to a specific restriction, a well-founded one, and the structure of the sector means that it is a very hard one. However, the realities of the epidemic now determine the necessary measures, and this, as has been said, is a well-founded proposal. However, it is worth noting that the impact of the measures required on the affected sectors should be moderated as much as possible without it being affected by the epidemic, and in this case, as Mr Kärnä said, it is appropriate to consider, for example, the relaxation of the regulation and practices of the sale of beverages. In general, it is important to monitor the impact of this proposal and how the sector responds to how people’s behaviour changes in this way, and then to be prepared to find those ways, to find the mechanisms and good practices that we can break this epidemic but that the impact that will result from this on business, businesses and people’s livelihoods can be bridged as well as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u131	Mr President! I want to thank the government for finally, finally giving bars and restaurants an order to stop serving indoors and outdoors. But it is quite unforgivable that you have allowed entrepreneurs to hang on loose for so long. It is quite exceptional that entrepreneurs themselves have demanded that their own diners be closed to customers when the government has not been prepared to do this. Customer flows have collapsed, but entrepreneurs have been forced to create in an impossible situation when doors are not worth closing in fear of losing the desired insurance premiums. For example, a bar in Oulu already wrote on its website last week: ‘We hope the government’s line is clear about what to expect in this situation. They have requested that non-essential private operators close their premises, and we obey this request, but we need orders and assistance from the government to open our doors sometime after the situation has passed. The current situation in which private companies are liable for voluntary bankruptcy is incomprehensible.” Or another very legendary base that published an update of its name as an anti-advertising, wrote: “Why don’t we shut our doors? If we close our bar ourselves, we will not be able to obtain any suspension insurance from the insurance company, and this would lead us to serious financial problems. We therefore very reluctantly keep our bar open and hope that you will protect yourself and your loved ones.” Mr President! I left the bar closure initiative and finally found myself as a Member of Parliament in the situation that I was filming an educational video for people about avoiding bars when nothing else could be done as a decision-maker. That video has had time to see 800,000 Finns to this day, when it is expected that the government will stop procrastinating. It is now the case that the government can no longer continue with this same mentality: that first the opposition should belittled when it proposes tougher measures to protect the population, and then the government will end up with these very measures, but late, and, above all, blame hindsight. This policy must be left behind. As an opposition, we support you very much, as long as you move forward quickly, because the examples from the world show that the greatest impact is on action when it is done courageously in time. Now that bars are caught, entrepreneurs really need all the support quickly, and with regard to the following protection measures, such as the curfew, the government can no longer proceed late and with too little action, otherwise it will put at risk the health system, which has already been in a situation where disposable shelters have to be washed. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u132	Mr President! We have now quickly come up with a temporary amendment to accommodation and nutrition, and it was certainly to be expected that this will happen. Of course, it is good that we have it here and it is urgent that this be taken up. Tomorrow, then, will continue in the committees. There is a Committee on Economic Affairs and then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is also looking at this. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is an opportunity to sell out, which, in my opinion, is an excellent thing. However, this is also the case here: ‘Article 3 would limit outside the exclusion of staff restaurants within the meaning of §1(3) of the Act. This provision covers the provision of food and drink intended for the Community, the Foundation or the institution’s own staff or other limited circle of persons. Entities and foundations referred to in this article may be governed by private law or public law. In practice, this provision would mean that, for example, nursing homes, hospitals, such as mental institutions and services for the care of people with disabilities, garrisons, prisons, day-care centres and schools, as well as staff restaurants in industrial institutions, could continue to be open.” This is where I draw attention to the fact that those who are now left open also have the possibility of a mass meeting, and now we really have to keep it very close, both on this issue of sale and on this point, that we should leave some open — and I am in favour of this proposal, that there are no two questions — but we must quickly come up with rules on what to do and what not to do. I would definitely do that when you leave tomorrow to deal with this, take out your customer glasses, entrepreneurship glasses and health glasses and look at this from all these angles. Then, please call the Food Authority tonight to start doing these rules, to have rules tomorrow, what to do and what not to do. It's one more thing for the rest of the week if we don't have clear rules on what to do. This is just such a humble wish and suggestion. And when we've got a ton of people to do this and, for example, Seinäjoki has a good Food Agency, you're just gonna tell the guy right now that you're gonna start making these rules. Because we need these. There are good examples here. I'm not gonna take a stand on this out-of-commerce thing, that what you can sell and what you can't, but you have to take a good look at everything now. We have to pay attention to the customer, we have to pay attention to the entrepreneur and above all to health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u133	Mr President! When the disease is severe, the potions must be well. Of course, you have to be careful that things are in balance. This measure, which is being proposed, is familiar with the countries of Central Europe, which is where we are now following the other countries. Hopefully this will be done in time, because the customers have already left the restaurants on their own. In fact, there are a couple of things that I would also like to make sure of here with a question: Now that the nutrition stores are closed until 31 May and, on the other hand, we have these regulations of the Emergency Act in force now until 13 April, there is a feeling that there should have been a way to go about these things like one leg. That is why the Minister said that 500 people have been cancelled until 31 May, but now we are talking about an entirely different dimension. So I would like to make sure that it was thought that this preparedness law and this type of assembly restrictions would then be taken hand in hand? In any case, the risk here is how to support restaurants in this situation. Will entrepreneurs be left alone to shoulder the responsibility now? This means that we must now, even in reference to the previous debate, find a solution now in these Business Finland and other entities that will give us such financial injections to the acute cash crisis that will inevitably arise from this. What must be taken into account when selling out food and drink, of course, is the effective elimination of red tape, that is to say that we must now give these operators the opportunity to act in such an environment that food and drink can, however, go to the public. One more thing: This explanatory statement of the government's proposal talks about whether it would have been possible to do this regionally in some way, but the truth is that at present part of Finland is a relatively viral-free region. That's the way it is. You must always think about these entities, really, that how these drugs are used, and I also ask whether the government would have felt that there was any possibility of building some kind of regional separation here?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u134	Mr President! We can be pleased that, in these exceptional circumstances and in the event of a rapid change of circumstances, the government is able to make rapid proposals. And although Mr Tynkkynen is a little critical of this, I would like to remind you that we are all jointly concerned about this situation and the situation of nutritionists. I think it is important and the main thing that we are now making rapid decisions this evening to get this situation under control quickly. Yes, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to see a common consensus in this Chamber as well as in the whole nation, that when there is such a tight situation, exceptional circumstances, on top, there would be such a consensus that together as a agile nation we would win this corona virus, and it is precisely these measures that must now be taken quickly. As the Minister pointed out here, this virus is mainly spread as a droplet infection, i.e. between people, and the infected person may spread the virus before the onset of the symptoms, and it is in these very bars that this virus spreads. It is indeed a good thing now that we can manage this situation with this quick presentation that the nutrition stores are shut down from customers, that the sale of products to customers from the premises of the restaurants is allowed. Mr President! I would like to ask the minister concerned a question about this sale directly to the customer. Representative Kärnä pointed out that when there are more than 8,000 food business entrepreneurs in this country, 300 entrepreneurs would be allowed to sell these products out. I therefore ask how those who do not have this authorisation — will this suspension insurance then come into effect, that entrepreneurs will receive some support for the plight?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u135	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Paatero, for your clear presentation. [President : Haatainen! ] — — — — Hatainen, I'll fix it. [Laughter] Rapid and vigorous action is needed to overcome this unpredictable disease. This strong solution will, of course, create difficulties for companies, which should then be supported through various measures beyond the crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u136	Mr President! I believe that this government proposal is largely justified. The Korona virus has spread rapidly into an epidemic, and nearly 800 people are already infected in Finland. I think it is perfectly understandable and justified that these additional restrictions should be made at this point. This performance will order restaurants, nightclubs, diners and cafes to close their doors for a fixed period of time. However, sales of products are still possible. We know that, to date, many of the restaurants, the diner operators themselves have been self-absorbed because to date clear instructions or regulations on how they should act have not been given to them by the government. However, I think it is important and good that these clear regulations are now being adopted. Mr President! There has also been a lot of discussion among entrepreneurs about how this proposal has now been made. I have just received a message from an entrepreneur who said that this proposal, when implemented in this way, does not bring them much help, as it does not provide that support through insurance. I would like to quote briefly: ‘It is necessary that the Finnish authority has provided for the control of the disease, animal disease or A general authority’s order to restrict movement or a reduction in the number of customers due to fear caused by the corona virus is not to be replaced.’ We are therefore in a situation where even these entrepreneurs, who now have extensive suspension insurance policies, are not going to receive any support there. I would like to ask the Minister now first of all: how did the government come to prepare a proposal for this legislation and not, for example, to bring these legislation into the context of the Act on communicable diseases, and then perhaps it would have been different? Mr. Speaker! I would also like to say that it is important that these restrictions are now being imposed, but what is missing here is that our entire restaurant and accommodation business is in the midst of a deep crisis. If we do not take decisive action now, support entrepreneurs, we will have a major crisis in the sector in the spring and a lot of bankruptcies. I would therefore also ask the Minister what kind of direct action the government is preparing to take in support of restaurant entrepreneurs, because simply offering access to loan financing or reorganising loans does not actually help the majority of entrepreneurs in the sector. They either do not get more loans, or the situation is already so challenging in other respects that other measures are more necessary, such as income from taxation or compensation for employers' contributions insofar as they still have employees at work. So I would also like the Minister to open up what is being done directly at all. What Mr Kärnä was thinking about with regard to the right to sell products seems to me to be justified. It is certainly the case that it will not solve this crisis in the sector, but as one concrete measure, I would see that the government should now urgently consult on this matter and then bring to Parliament the provisions that would also facilitate this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u137	Mr President! I would like to believe that the majority of Finns have taken seriously the instructions to reduce extra contact in their daily lives. Everyone has thought about the services they need, moved on to telework as far as possible, taken the children home for remote education, avoided meeting older relatives, and so on. As data on the increase in the number of coronavirus infections and the predictions of infection have been updated, it has become clear to the government that, unfortunately, the measures taken are still not sufficient. Places where people meet are a risk of spreading and getting infections. The bill that has come to us now proposes limiting the opening conditions for nutritionists. Nutrition stores should be kept closed to customers, but so-called take-aways could be sold out. This is a good demarcation, as it allows at least some restaurants to continue to operate and to maintain access to food. Similarly, staff restaurants, such as canteens in kindergartens, schools, hospitals and prisons, would be excluded from the law. I also think that this is a good line for maintaining working conditions in the workplace. However, this restriction makes the financial position of restaurants more difficult in an already difficult situation, and I would like to ask: is there any new compensation planned for the loss of income of companies? The explanatory memorandum states that from the point of view of insurance and rental conditions, a change in the law may, from the point of view of the entrepreneur, enable compensation or rent relief to be made better than the current situation. Here too, the question is: can this otherwise be a welcome opportunity to sell out cause any difficulties? The restaurant sector employs approximately 50,000 people. There's still a lot of hired labour on top of this. I'm sure the decision will increase layoffs and layoffs. The flexibility agreed on in the labour legislation is therefore necessary: the abolition of the day of entitlement to unemployment benefit, the extension of the readmission obligation, the employee's right to terminate the fixed-term contract of employment in the event of lay-off, etc. There is also a need to streamline the payment of unemployment benefit and to provide financial support for unemployment funds. The proposal is marked to last until 31.5.2020, which is a longer period than the time specified in the Emergency Act. Unfortunately, estimates of the duration of the epidemic are increasingly continuing until the summer, and we will have to adapt to this reality in many sectors. However, the shorter the period of derogation, the better the restrictions will be. It is also part of my own thinking that measures restricting movement must be examined before any other measures are taken to reduce infection. That is the kind of restriction we are now debating, and I can support it in this exceptional period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u138	Mr President! This proposal to close restaurants has been requested and even demanded beyond government and opposition boundaries, and many restaurant entrepreneurs themselves have asked for and demanded it throughout Finland. I just had a conversation with Lucky Monkeys, a restaurant entrepreneur from Lappeenranta, Tony Gilbert, and they are also ready to join in on these efforts. Although he did say that if restaurants close, 3,000 gallons of beer will have to be poured into the sewer, which is also a tragedy of its own. Mr President! It is a good thing that the government is determined to take action on this issue, but it is bad now if restaurant entrepreneurs who want to assume their responsibilities in this regard are simply paying and paying women. Some certainly have suspension insurance, and that will help them, some of which will help, and certainly many people will not have such suspension insurance at all. My question to the government now is: what is your plan, and what are you going to do to help these restaurant entrepreneurs financially, so that this whole fall of restrictions does not fall on them? I also ask and hope that the Committee will be asked to be an expert on this matter by a representative of the Tourism and Restaurant Services Mara Association to tell us how they are going to deal with it, so that we can be sure that the feelings of the industry will be clear there in the committee and that we will also be informed about the further work on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u139	Mr President! Could you say, "Origins, spells. “ This is, of course, a logical extension of the increasingly powerful measures against the virus, and these must be taken, although of course it hurts. Of course, it must also be pointed out that, in practice, customers and businesses too have already reached conclusions and restaurants, pubs, nightclubs have been closed, but now clarity has come into play and that is what is going on. Of course, if you want to look for positive aspects of the solution, there is this opportunity to sell out, and I would hope that people will take advantage of this opportunity, if at all possible, when they are picked up by potential messengers or taken up by themselves. It is truly regrettable that we are living in these times. Now, if ever it is clear that this is partially paralysed, it is partially laid off by a large and huge number of people. That is why the government's actions, which are not only used but also part of the preparations, are becoming unforeseeable. The truth is that, even at this point, if there is no further action, a major wave of bankruptcy is likely to be inevitable. There are certainly different ways to consider, for example, employer support, which would provide assistance, for example, in social insurance contributions, perhaps entrepreneurship support, state aid in various payments, or sole entrepreneur support, such as income from basic daily allowance for a certain period of time. There are plenty of ways, but more is to slow down the downward movement. Fortunately, we have a government that is making great progress on these measures. I would also like to thank Mr Hatais for his consistent approach against the spread of the virus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u140	Mr President! The Corona virus epidemic in Finland is getting worse every day. The situation is particularly critical in Uusimaa, where, according to current data, more than 60 per cent of Finland’s 800 corona infections are present. Although schools, culture and sports facilities and even churches are closed in Finland, bars and nightclubs have remained open here in the capital region. The party continued last weekend, even though it is known that human suffering will result. It is clear that coronavirus spreads effectively, especially in close contact with nightclubs. Indifference can no longer continue because it kills. I therefore believe that it is necessary for the government to react to a fast-moving infection situation and close the premises of restaurants such as nightclubs, bars, cafes and restaurants to customers. These measures will come, I am afraid, in the aftermath, but it is a good thing that they are now. Of course, for entrepreneurs in the field of nutrition, the majority of whom are small and medium-sized enterprises, the situation has been completely unreasonable for some time now. The exceptional circumstances of everyday life have existed and customers have disappeared before these restrictive measures. Entrepreneurs in the sector are among those who are hardest hit by the corona crisis and the necessary restrictions. Well, the capping of the bill, which allows for the opening of restaurants at the workplace, is likely to distort competition in the sector, as it allows some large operators to keep their restaurants open. A little relief from the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises is the fact that food is allowed to be sold out. Today, the tax authorities have also changed the conditions for lunch vouchers so that they can also be used to cover transport costs, which is an excellent thing. The difficult situation faced by entrepreneurs would also be helped by facilitating the sale of alcohol. A licence should be issued directly if the entrepreneur currently has the right to obtain and sell the licence. In addition, wines and beer should be placed on the market. This would be a very important hand-out for entrepreneurs in the sector. And I would like to ask, Minister, whether the government is ready for such an extension. Well, many entrepreneurs in the sector also have doubts as to whether the suspension insurance covers the closure of a business by such a change of law, which is therefore made to the Act on accommodation and nutrition services. And according to the messages I have received, the fear is that insurance conditions require a decision to close in accordance with the Act on communicable diseases. And, Minister, I would also like to ask you if you were able to clarify these conditions of insurance in this urgent legislative process. Would the amendment to the Act on communicable diseases and the suspension decisions taken under it have been likely to have been more widely covered by the suspension insurance policies of entrepreneurs? Well, overall, uncertainty is completely unreasonable for entrepreneurs. The biggest deficiency in this proposal is the way in which restaurants are supported in this situation. This has not yet been decided by the government. Only in passing does the proposal refer to situations where the law allows the rent to be moderated. Restaurant entrepreneurs will be left alone unless the government brings its own support package to the restaurant and industry. Without this, the cost of combating the interest rate will be put on the back of individual entrepreneurs. And this is not a normal business risk, it is an exceptional situation in which the state must take on the risk of entrepreneurship. The reality is that the number of customers has already collapsed, the cash register is empty for many. Someone should pay their salaries and rents. A desperate restaurant entrepreneur told me last week that he had cried sending layoffs to his good employees. Minister for Labour, is the government going to help these entrepreneurs who are in trouble with a special support package for the restaurant industry?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u141	Let us take Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, and then the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u142	Mr President! The most important thing now is to slow the epidemic down, otherwise the resources of health care will not be sufficient. If the capacity of health care is exceeded, it will result in suffering and death, and that is certainly not what any of us want. As stated in this draft law, preventing and slowing down the spread of infections by means of new and broader demarcation measures is necessary to prevent the risk to human life and health. In restaurants, human contact is so intense that droplet contamination is even very likely if there is a virus carrier. The proposal has a limited scope for food in the workplace outside the limits, and I think this is a good thing, but I hope that all hygiene and safety distances will be remembered in the workplace. I was wondering whether the guidelines should be specified and reviewed once again. Similarly, restaurants can continue to sell out food and transport it home. These are sensible exclusions, and I hope that the citizens who can afford to use these services will do so now. This will help to support at least some firms and entrepreneurs in difficulty. Mr President! I believe and hope that the public will understand the reasons for this proposal and that their actions will also support this common objective of getting the corona situation under control by preventing too rapid an increase in cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u143	Thank you. Then Minister Haatainen, three minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u144	Mr President! The measures taken to slow down this pandemic affect the survival of companies in many ways. But the primary goal of the government is now to save lives and to secure the capacity of our health care system to operate, and that is why these restrictive measures are being taken. And this new restriction measure has been introduced because, by THL and other experts, this has now been seen to be a suitable and appropriate measure at this time. Money is now a secondary issue, starting with people's health and lives. Another issue that the government has been paying attention to right from the start is where these restrictive measures are directed and what has already happened in the world as a result of this pandemic, when exports have deteriorated, supplies have deteriorated and so on. It has, of course, caused problems for companies, and therefore the central task of the government is to avoid unnecessary bankruptcies because of this pandemic and also to avoid job losses. And then it has its own measures and legislation is coming. For this reason, the Government has made a comprehensive support package, in which support is directed through Finnvera, Business Finland, ely centres and through industrial investment, among other things. With these measures, the government is now trying to create a path and a path for companies to survive. Now, because of this new restriction, we have a new type of entrepreneurial field ahead of us, and it was clear at the board's sitting that we want to continue to look for ways, by the Minister of Industry, to find ways of helping these companies to cope with this restriction. There has also been a call for an amendment to the alcohol law. It has not been done in this context during these hours of night and night. The focus has now been on this one issue, namely the closure of restaurant activities. But, as has been said here, taking away is possible within the framework of current legislation, and it is also possible to sell out these soft drinks. As far as workplace restaurants are concerned, instructions were called for there. This message goes to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, I believe. Mr Risiko's proposal to include the Food Agency as an instrument of guidance
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u145	Mr President! I must say from the outset that this is a sad but also necessary proposal which has now been brought to Parliament on a fast-track basis. I was just talking to my relative who runs the restaurant, and we were talking about all wholesale orders being stopped and people being laid off, and all service running out and now we have to prepare for it on a very fast schedule. As stated in this presentation, this will also be long in view, always until the end of May. Of course, the situation may change, but this proposal also states that, in relation to Article 23 of the Constitution, ‘temporary ‘and’restrictions may only be possible under exceptional circumstances’, i.e. that it is now time to explain how the exceptional circumstances are bound to continue in this country even after 13 April. Of course, the most important thing now is to consider ways of supporting these restaurant entrepreneurs and others in what kind of package they should be given. They cannot be left alone, as no entrepreneur or employee is now in this situation. The rent ceiling or some kind of support for that rent payment must then be the next consideration also very quickly. This also places different situations in different parts of the country. We also need to ensure that the shops we have in connection with the gas stations continue to run, even if there is no restaurant or café activity there, because they are often the only places for almost every kilometer in which food is sold, and we should take care of it. Mr Marttinen has made an excellent point on this insurance issue, and this is very difficult. I am not an expert in the insurance sector, and today I tried to look at them and also share them with the people who are asking about this. This position has also been taken on board from insurance and financial advice, but it stated, among other things, that ‘voluntary insurance does not, however, allow for the risk to be protected against more general social disturbances such as the epidemics that are at risk for the whole population’. Of course, it is always about the insurance conditions of an individual person or company, but this is certainly not the case in many places, nor is it about how insurance companies can contribute to these risks. With this bill coming so quickly, we now have to take care of it and prepare only the following packages, as the Minister said there, how to help entrepreneurs in this situation when suddenly everything ends.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u146	Mr President! These speeches have, of course, updated the exceptional nature of this situation. I myself have not been in a situation in which, during my more than 16 years as a representative, a new issue will be clearly announced during the plenary session, which will be subject to a tight debate on referrals — we all know why — and this reflects both the efficiency of the government and the efficiency of the parliamentary system. In a critical situation like this, we have no choice but to react. In this speech, Mr Tynkkynen called for the government to act slowly: it is no wonder that these processes have already been produced in Central Europe, in other words restaurants, bars, nightclubs, cafés, and so on. Yes, yes, we have been caught, and we know very well why. The very reason is that these droplet infections have spread very effectively and strongly from these points. After all, we have the clear news that from the bars in the Alpine ski resorts this has come here powerfully, this corona virus which has spread to the North, which means that these meeting places are most susceptible to this droplet infection. It is great that we are now making the decision that has clearly been in the air for a long time, because even customers in restaurants have disappeared and we have realised that there are strong risks involved. The capital region has also seen very clearly the fact that the surprisingly high proportion of these so-called young adults who have been infected with this corona virus, and no doubt a significant proportion of these young adults have been infected with this type of encounters, such as those with evenings. Of course, I am not an expert on this issue, but I can, of course, assess it this way. Mr Vestman took the floor to reflect on this distortion of competition, which is what happens when prisons and garrisons continue to hold the cafeteria open. The same applies, of course, to day-care centres, and the same applies to nursing homes and these canteens. I find it difficult to see what a distortion of competition is in it — they are, in their own way, contract canteens where the customer base is limited, clearly limited. Even a good service does not provide an increase in the number of customers, i.e. it is not an activity in normal competition and it is absolutely necessary to act, especially for closed institutions, and in that respect this situation is necessary — that the government recognizes this. Then perhaps it is worth taking the same practice in these canteens and others as in this Parliament, where we now clearly have a different type of service in our canteens than in the past. Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about entrepreneurs in this field, and it is worth talking about. This is an exceptionally large group of service companies: these are more than 10,000 companies which now have to close their doors by law. Less has been said about over 50,000 employees here. Yes, this closure of restaurants, bars, cafés is at least as deadly a crisis situation for workers who have worked here, who run out of bread.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u149	Mr President! The Left Alliance believes that every effort must be made to slow down and stop the corona epidemic, which is effective and sensible, and it must be done in a timely manner. The action that now has to be closed down restaurants is partly due to the fact that the instructions for meeting up to 10 people, those that have been given to public places, have not been valid in private spaces. Most Finns have been responsible, but unfortunately not all have been responsible, and this has led to this situation. For a long time now, I have asked whether this issue could be addressed in particular in this situation. This was particularly the case — not so much this meal, but the issue of giving — and I have wondered whether it would have been possible to take decisions on the issue rather than on the basis of the law. That would have been done, or we would have done so, as the government is now proposing, so this is a very severe blow to businesses and entrepreneurs, and companies and entrepreneurs need support. They need both state support, support for society and support for us ordinary people, when this bill allows us to apply for take-out food, so it is important that we try to use the services that exist and in this way support businesses and entrepreneurs. In fact, a great many entrepreneurs have already acted responsibly: they have stopped serving food on the ground and concentrated solely on providing take-out food. This is very visible in many places, which is what has been done so far. This legislation is desirable from the restaurant side, particularly from the restaurant side, and it has been thought that this would then be a means of compensation through suspension insurance. It may be that there is a little too much optimism here — unfortunately. After all, when I have discussed and gone through these agreements, it may be very difficult to apply for it in this way, even in the case of these suspension insurances, to mention this pandemic and even in those that are very large. Therefore, you cannot lean on these alone or hope on them alone. I understand that many people in distress are clinging to the idea that insurance can be used as a means of compensation. Then you have to think about what the fixed costs of the restaurant are, and the rents are the big fixed costs — even if the restaurant is closed, the rents run, and now the question is how the landlords come in. Many housing companies have already met restaurant entrepreneurs and other entrepreneurs on their own by temporarily halving rents for 3 months or giving other discounts, but then we have a large number of listed companies, institutional investors, foreign equity investors who have not received anything at least so far in shopping centres, for example. It is an unreasonable situation if, in this crisis, society pays, taxpayers use state funds to support businesses and then the aid will flow to those who do not agree to lower rents but collect the same amount. It is also shortsighted from the point of view of these landlords, because if companies fall, then when they are empty, nothing will be gained. Mr President! At the same time, when you have to think about companies and entrepreneurs, you also have to think about employees' livelihoods. This leads to redundancies, this leads to layoffs. Tens of thousands of applications from the unemployment fund are expected in the service union’s cashier in a couple of weeks, and the question is how to deal with them. It is really important that one day begins to receive earnings-related allowance, but how do we make it easier for those decisions not to come in months, because people need money here and now? Can it be done that certain amounts are given directly when you register for unemployment and then, when there is time, they are calculated later? This type of thing is needed now, and in the same way, even if a member of the unemployment fund falls on Kela's money, you just have to give support directly to get the family going, the person gets along, and then you look after it, you even out these sums. For example, if you look at the industry’s average earnings-related daily allowance and pay 80% of it, you are likely to be able to accommodate quite a large part of it. Then it should also be noted that there have been a lot of fixed-term employees in the service sectors, for example, in connection with studying or otherwise. Their livelihood falls completely away, and yet they have built their entire livelihood on the basis that it is built from different pieces, and these do not necessarily appear in Kela's daily allowance or cash. Mr President! This is certainly necessary, although there are duubies and reflections as to whether this could have been done by restricting the drinking and giving more space to restaurant activities in relation to food, but this is what is needed. However, it must be said that, especially in exceptional circumstances, special care must be taken to ensure that the rule of law is applied, according to the Constitution and in accordance with the rules of parliamentaryism. I must say that today I was chairing a parliamentary group at a joint meeting of all the parliamentary groups where this was discussed, and at that point this law was still emerging. It was said that this might come tomorrow, and then a text message will be received at 7:41 p.m., that the sitting will resume at 8.15 p.m. and this will be here in the Chamber. Before that, a warning had arrived in the main secretary's e-mail a moment earlier about this. Less than half an hour before the beginning of this debate, we will receive a government presentation by e-mail. This does not meet the principles of good parliamentaryism that we can properly prepare, read, go through the government's proposal so that we can comment on it in this referral debate. And it cannot be that, more than half an hour before, there is an alarm that such a major and fundamental issue is being discussed here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u150	Mr President! First of all: very warm thanks to Minister Haatainen and to the whole government for this responsible proposal. Mr Arhinmäki's speech was very commendable in many places, and thank you for that too, but to this final comment on the realisation of parliamentaryism: On the other hand, I agree entirely with this, but taking into account this timetable, which is now the case, and this three-day withdrawal period, so that we can also get the measures in motion, and given that the weekend is ahead and the situation is starting to be quite critical, I understand, on the other hand, this extraordinary procedure. Most importantly, however, we will have this proposal before Parliament. It is known, as has already been said in many places, that restaurants and nightclubs in other parts of Europe have been a very central source of infection, from which many transmission chains have started to spread. As Minister Hatainen has already explained, this measure is very appropriate here in Finland and, as we know, it has been followed very closely in other European countries in line with the situation. If we judge the moment we are living in Finland at the moment, it is justified to say that we are acting at the right time. There are also examples of countries where decisions on the spread of the virus may have been taken too late, but we are not too late yet. It has already been said on several occasions that this decision has in no way been easy. The economic impact is enormous and, on the other hand, there is also a very critical and strong movement in an area where fundamental rights and freedom to engage in business are being addressed. The concern has been expressed here that these insurance policies do not in all cases compensate for the loss of entrepreneurs, and support measures are certainly more than necessary. In my opinion, however, it was also quite honest in this Chamber that the fact that it is certainly not possible to save all the players — it is a fact — but everything can be done. There are ways to do that, and they will certainly be introduced, but given this scale, it is likely that bankruptcies will occur, no matter what. Nevertheless, the damage is minimised. In this connection, I have to say that even though the majority of Finns have acted in a very responsible way throughout this trip and as things progressed, they have followed the government's guidelines and recommendations, so many nightclubs in Finland have been full to the last few days. It can no longer be a lack of information, because there has been a great deal of information available. On the other hand, it is rather sad that we also have to take extremely drastic measures, partly because we do not necessarily have a sufficiently serious view of the situation in which we are living. This is not intended to make anyone particularly guilty, but I do say that we still have quite a lot to do in that every single Finn understands its own personal responsibility in controlling this epidemic. This idea was raised here that restrictions would only be made in part of the country. I'm sure it's a challenge. We do not have very precise information on what this disease is now and, as has been said, the situation can change very quickly. The idea of this increase in alcohol sales or full liberalisation does not, at least, give me unreserved support. We are well aware that the very negative effects of heavy drinking are very often culminated in home conditions, and now that restaurants close, of course this risk will increase even further, especially in those families where alcohol consumption is already higher in principle. So, in this context, I think the last thing we need now is for us to go further in particular to liberalise this sale of alcohol, as has been pointed out in this Chamber. At the end of the day, For the time being, I think that we in this House have been able to work together to find solutions to very difficult issues and problems now that we are living in the midst of an exceptional situation. I sincerely hope that, in the midst of this crisis, we will not now begin to tear down this political detachment by any means necessary. Unfortunately, there have already been examples of this today. I think it is important to remember now that we are in this crisis together and only together will we get through this. Let's hold on to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u151	Mr President! It is good that we now have a clear line on this. This decision also put pressure on the landlords to agree to the rent relief. Hopefully this will happen and we will be able to bear this burden of exceptional circumstances together. However, it is quite clear that this restriction on the turnover of restaurants makes a huge gap, and hence the impact on employment is great. According to estimates already received, tens of thousands of workers are being talked about. The support of nutritionists is now of paramount importance. No one wants to see the horrors of the '90s recession again. According to many experts, quarantine and isolation are currently the only means of combating the virus. This should also lead to stricter restrictions on movement. The Prime Minister has heard today that there are strong grounds for isolation, but this is a legislatively difficult measure. I hope we can speed this up with you. The Minister said here that money is a secondary matter. That is certainly the case, but it is also a part of health in this regard, because it is true that the suicide wave of the recession of the 1990s and other major problems hardly anyone wants to see again. With that entry into force of the law, I would have asked the minister: Any word on that? Is there a weekend coming, for example? Because, as was the case here earlier, it may be that if the bars are still open, then for the last time we will go there and drink. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u152	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! I myself would once again like to take a hat on the minister and the government for very swift and tough decisions to protect the health of citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u153	Ärade Herr Talman! Läget med coronaviruses är ytterst allvarligt. Därför är det också viktigt att vidta åtgärder för att minska spridningen. Här har redan regeringen vidtagit många goda åtgärder. Jag lyfter också på hatten till regeringen för den snabbheten man har agerat med, och finländarna har också variant mycket noga med att hörsamma de rekommentationer som regeringen har föreslagit. Läget är ändå för många av landsets restaurant också redan nu mycket allvarligt, Vilket propositionen också constaterar. Det rauh lagförslaget kommenter tutumarr innebära ytterligare svårigheter för många kiosker, caféer och restaurantföretagare, alldeles i synnerhet de som är små, alltså egen-ochfamileföretagarna,ochtedesomharenstorkedjairyggen. Jag skulle därför grain fråga ministern om har man gjort consekvensbedömning. Hur många aktörer kommer slås ut, hur många caféer kommer läggas ner på grund av det kommenter lagförslaget? Finns det någon sådan consekensbedömning ännu? Och sedan det andra jag skulle cereal fråga om, som också flera andra ledamöter har tagit upp ox, är de ekonomiska consevenserna av förslaget. Vilka åtgärder har man tänkt brygga över den ox krisen för våra restaurantföretagare? Har man till exempelvis funderat på att man skulle morsbefria restaurantföretagarna för en vis tid för de hyror och övriga kostnader som man är fast vid? Coronavirusets spridning är för tilfället mycket i oilka delar av landet. I vivi sjukårdsdistrikt finns verkligt få fall, och regeringen har sagt att problemmet är Nyland, och har också sagt att man därför överväger och vill isolera Nyland. Och därför vill jag för det tredje också fråga om det därför är nödvändigt att nu vidta de ärtgärderna i hela landet direkt, också på de orterna där det inte finns fall, ettersom detta också riskerar att påverka matförsörjningen på mindre orter. Jag tänker ox inte på de stora discoteken utan på de mindre kioskerna, caféerna och restaurangerna. Avslutningsvis: I proposition constaterar regeringen att utan begränsande åtgärder kommenter till och med 80 percent av befolkningen att smittas av coronaviruses, det ox att läget är ytterst allvarligt. Samtidigt skulle det vara viktigt också för riksdage att få se de prognoser som regeringen använder och använt som underlag för det rai förslaget till riksdagen. Det är viktigt att också vi hela tiden kan basera våra beslut på expertnas syn och vad som är nödvändigt. Läget med coronaviruset är som sagt ytterst allvarligt, och det är extra problematiskt effectsom vi inte vet hur det kommer att breda ut sig och det tar slut. Just därför är det också viktigt att hela tiden kalibrera alla åtgärder proportionerligt och med flexibilitet så att man maximerar smittskyddet samtidigt som man minimerar kostnaderna för samhälls economist. Det är verklogen inte en enkel uppgift, och jag aidas inte regeringen som tar de operativa besluten och försöker hitta den arv balansen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u154	Mr President! I started my career 25 years ago with dishes because my mother had a family business in the restaurant business on Ilmajoki. I could not have imagined on a moon's day that I was sitting in the Chamber making restrictions, as strong as we have been in the last week, on business and the idea that I have waited several days for this decision. Mr President! I must say that this decision has indeed been awaited last week, especially in the north. Many ski resorts and restaurants near them were open, and even in the Oulu region it created large, large queues in traffic when people from all over Finland, but from the south, moved to Lapland. We all know what that means when faced with a virus as wretched as a corona, an invisible virus that must be fought with every effort. I'm glad this show is here. But it's still a cause for concern. This was Mr Marttinen's good speech on these suspension insurance, and the same question — it would be important for us to see those criteria: which is why this suspension in the field of nutrition and services, in the hotel and restaurant sector, was not blocked on the basis of its infectious law. Well, then we'll have to figure out how to go on. One question has already been asked: does this apply to service stations in the same way, i.e. if there is a private transport station and there has been no actual exit or restaurant business in the past with regard to out-of-door sales, is it the case that you can then sell food and other similar things out of there in the future? I understand that this does not restrict the sale of restaurants for food or drink, as the Minister has just pointed out. Well, then, these service, tourism, restaurant and event companies have contacted us. I believe that entrepreneurs will understand the hard steps we are taking to combat the corona virus, but they will not understand why they and their employees are being forced to pay for most of these measures. We understand that the government is doing these things, but it does not take comfort in this situation when it appears to be the case, especially in these areas, that it is not an alternative to taking up an additional debt, because there is no prospect that its debt can be repaid, whether it is a bank, a state or even a neighboring entrepreneur. And then to these tax policies. Now it was great that the tax office acted, so today it came to light that lunch vouchers can also pay for these transport costs along with lunch. But now it only touches the restaurants' own food supplies. In recent years, for example, Foodora and Wolt have come and worked well, and they are still not receiving lunch notes because they are being paid through their own systems. It would also be important to create business activities on the side that these transports should become new business activities, so that restaurants are not solely dependent on waiting for customers to take take-aways or not. Then, as far as these landlords are concerned, of course, it is clear that all have to pay this invoice together to some extent and that insurance companies, property investors and landlords should also be able to meet. So it is a good thing that this is the decision now. I would also like to see the arguments put forward by Parliament, or at least by the committee, which is why there was no preparation for that suspension from the Act on Disease Control. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u155	Mr President! Thank you to Minister Haatainen for presenting the Government's proposal and thank you to the whole government for its determined action to promote health in this challenging situation. We live in a very unusual time. The corona virus, which has become a global pandemic, also threatens the health of Finns. Based on the experience of other countries, we can estimate that we too urgently need to find effective ways of combating viral infections. We must be prepared to take prompt action, and the government has shown that that readiness exists. In the light of research and developments in the disease situation in other countries, we understand that restricting social contacts is the only way to prevent the spread of viruses and the restrictive measures now proposed are necessary to safeguard human health. Thank you to the government for the prompt but thorough preparation of this proposal. The decision to restrict the activities of restaurants is not easy to make, nor is it to be made on a light basis. A common understanding of the situation and commitment to these actions is important. We also know that these measures have a serious impact on business and the economy. At the same time, we must now look for all the means available to help companies to cope with this period of derogation. Good proposals have been listed here in previous speeches, and additional means will certainly be explored. We must also help restaurant workers who are laid off and who are being laid off to survive. There will probably be a lot of these people in the next few weeks. The better we succeed in this, the better we will be able to return to the normal pace of life after this pandemic has been overturned.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u156	Mr. Speaker! Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I very much welcome the fact that we are now having a debate on food entrepreneurs and their situation. The situation is very serious at the moment: the cashiers are empty in many cases, the turnover of many companies has also fallen sharply. And when Mr Kiljunen raised 50 000 employees in the industry earlier, of course it is a question of the future of entrepreneurs, of their ability to continue that business, but equally so, of course, of the fact that these people retain their jobs, and we are also concerned about that. We also want to deal with this matter. But, Madam Minister, I repeat my question, which I do not think I have received an answer to. When I have had a discussion among industry entrepreneurs about the fact that the central problem with this government proposal is that this restriction is not based on a provision under the Act on communicable diseases, but now that the provision is introduced into the Act on accommodation and catering, what has been the government's analysis of this solution, since this has now also had an impact on the insurance side. This is an issue for many entrepreneurs at the moment, because they are still wondering what the situation of their company will be tomorrow, or perhaps next week, so it would be good to have an answer to this. The Minister also mentioned this crisis package by the government: Finnvera's industrial investment, Business Finland and Ely Centre grants. However, I think it is true to say that the majority of these activities are more or less loan-oriented instruments. Of course, it is important and good that commercial banks can organise business loans, give longer payment periods and so on, but for many restaurant entrepreneurs it is no longer practically possible to borrow it, and many people are not even ready for it anymore. In fact, therefore, the majority of these measures, which have been taken in this first crisis package, are such that they do not in practice help these entrepreneurs in the industry and their situation, and that is what the government must now wake up to at this point. This Business Finland grant, which is a direct grant, is also targeted solely at limited liability companies, which in fact leaves the whole larger field out of the restaurant side, smaller entrepreneurs, business-name entrepreneurs, and this is also a major flaw that also needs repair. Now that many entrepreneurs are very tight, many have already laid off their employees and many are currently thinking about how to deal with tomorrow and next week, it is absolutely essential that the government now prepares a new crisis package. I understand from Minister Lintilä's speech that such preparations are being made, and in this preparation we must pay particular attention now to the small and medium-sized Finnish entrepreneurs, who are in real trouble at the moment. We also need direct support for businesses. As I said earlier, one option could be to compensate the employer's side costs for three months in so far as these workers are still at work. Forms of tax support: for example, these arrangements for paying taxes should be able to postpone the payment of the tax — that is to say, Mr President, to increase it. Not at a rate of 4% of what the government is now proposing, but there too, a more reasonable solution would have to be found. In addition, I think it should be examined whether, in this situation, the company could also recover the taxes it has paid on the application for VAT, for example, in order to resolve this acute cash crisis, so that they can then overcome this deepest situation and be able to resume their business and also secure the jobs of tens of thousands of Finns. Mr. Speaker! At the end of my speech, I cannot fail to appeal to the landlords at this final point. We have great examples of how a central landlord across Finland, including Finland's Turku, has come against the entrepreneur, and I hope that the landlords will also understand that in this situation there is also their interest to get over this situation, and I also hope that this solidarity and understanding will prevail.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u157	Mr President! In terms of the infection situation, closing restaurants is the right solution. Thank you to the government for this speedy preparation of the law: it will prevent these human contacts, which pose the greatest threat to the spread of the corona virus, and that is true, whether it is a nightclub or a buffet table. Hopefully this policy will also clarify the situation in the restaurant sector. Many of the restaurant companies have already lost their customer base to such an extent that they have had to put a note on the hatch and lay off the workers. In addition to this ban, however, it should be decided to support restaurant entrepreneurs beyond these difficulties, so that healthy restaurants do not fall and people lose their jobs — and not just a small number of people — but the restaurant sector is a very large employer, we are talking about tens of thousands of jobs, and in this respect it is a very fundamental question of building that bridge over a difficult period of time. Mr Arhinmäki has pointed out here that this law goes beyond the boundaries of parliamentaryism and good legislation. It is true that this matter was brought here on a real short-term schedule and that not all representatives have the opportunity to come here today to hold this debate on referrals and we have not had time to get to know this proposal properly and to assess all its dimensions. I am particularly concerned about one aspect of this law, and that is the law under which it is done. From this I have given myself the impression that the restriction was not possible under these other laws, and I would ask the Minister whether this is the case, and what effect has the government had on the fact that this law was adopted? I am asking this because restaurant entrepreneurs, who have been in contact with me in the last few days at least, have described the interruptions made under the Act on communicable diseases, which replaces their insurance policies, but now, for example, we do not have clear information on this aspect of insurance in this Chamber, although in practice we are talking about communicable diseases. This logic is different in this law, at least from the point of view of insurers. Of course, it has to be said that different entrepreneurs have different insurance policies, and we cannot talk about this field as a single entity either. But either way, my message here is that one way or another to ensure that entrepreneurs survive a difficult time. It can be done by taking account of this aspect of insurance, or it can be done through aid, but what is essential is that this angle is not forgotten in this case when restaurants are closed down. And what Mr Marttinen has said here about this responsibility for the landlords, I think this is a very important and good point of view, that it is also in the interests of every landlord, if at all possible, to keep a good tenant for the future in it. I'm sure it's on the sides and the other side of the interest now to meet up a little bit. Mr President! Although this process has had to be carried through in a hurry and does not in all respects comply with good legislative practice because of this rush, in this situation where we are in the middle of the corona virus, I welcome the fact that the government has taken forward these preventive measures to prevent the spread of the corona virus quickly. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u158	President! This is an important decision. The closure of restaurants, bars and cafes is a very correct decision, and I am sure that there is little to disagree with. But there is a difference of opinion on these small issues in this context, and I find it a little regrettable that I have been following this debate from my office that it is starting to appeal here that we should not disagree on grounds of national unity. I still believe that we must be able to discuss matters, and I believe that the debate will even improve that outcome. In fact, the representatives of Talvitie, Vestman, Marttinen and Ikonen have asked the question which I would like to ask the Minister: why is it that there has been little progress through the Act on communicable diseases? The second important issue I would like to raise is this confusion which, in a certain way, came about: that the government is prepared to close this whole industry, but there is not yet any kind of package to support them. I understand the urgency, but let's say that when the whole sector has been in a rather sad situation for some time now because of the lack of people, the lack of customers, it would be reasonable in some way to be able to provide financial solutions to their concerns, at least with a relatively fast timetable, and they certainly cannot be left alone. As Mr Marttinen said, lending is rarely the solution in this situation. The entrepreneurs I have spoken to are not even willing to borrow. For them, this activity is not so profitable that some day ago these loans could even be repaid. So that equation doesn't really work. But here the previous speakers have made good speeches, so I will not bother with this any longer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u159	Mr President! Yes, there must be a debate and there must be a disagreement, and it is a good thing that we are having a debate on this issue, that we are carefully weighing it down, because, as I said, these proposals come quickly, which is necessary, but it also requires a great deal of precision and precision from us representatives, because there may also be things that have been overlooked in the preparation. At the latest at the hearing of this House, at the committee hearing, they must then be noted. It may also be unreasonable to demand all solutions immediately. This situation is changing so quickly and needs to be prepared. Now we are making this decision, then we are already preparing other solutions, of course, but they are not all just fit for the same evening, the same day, not necessarily even for the same week, so we representatives must be prepared for the fact that we will be sitting here in the next few weeks and a lot. I was reading the economy, and I have to say to Mr Marttinen that this insurance issue is a very complicated one. Even there, it was stated on several occasions that this suspension insurance was never intended for such a large-scale epidemic, and I do not know how it would react even with the Act on Contagion. In other words, it has been stated in the interview that in practice it would often require that an infection or interest be detected in one of the locations or restaurants where the insurance would replace it. So, yes, there is a difficult situation here, and necessarily this house will not be able to solve it immediately. I would like to finish by asking the Minister — not directly related to restaurants — when there has been a lot of public talk about these gyms, that they have taken place anywhere in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u160	Mr President! In that early part of the discussion, we were asked when this law would come into force. The hope is that as soon as possible, but Parliament will, of course, abide by the rules of parliamentarianism. The government has brought this proposal, and Parliament itself has considered that it wishes to take this issue on board with this timetable, which, of course, the government thanks for the fact that this flexibility has now been found in these matters. Mr Arhinmäki is concerned about this concern, about employees, and we are concerned about employees. There are changes in this respect, i.e. the removal of days of ownership and easier working conditions. This is in good preparation for the STM. All in all, this proposal is now in the hands of Parliament, and I hope that it will now be carefully reviewed, as is certainly the case. This is what we want to use as soon as possible because we want us to control this restaurant business now in order to control the epidemic. This sector itself has already acted responsibly in many respects, as Members have said here, and for that, thank you too. Restaurants have already done things on their own, and they have been quite right, but the whole is not enough. It is clear that this will have an impact on the restaurant industry and will not have a positive impact, but the government will do everything in its power to avoid unnecessary bankruptcies being seen. That is why the Ministry of the Economy has started its preparatory work in order to find measures which will then certainly be able to support it in particular. I am also concerned and I share this concern with you, especially with these small and medium-sized enterprises, and this is, as I said, in the work of the Minister for Industry. Mr Marttinen and many others asked why this has not been done on the basis of the laws of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health — the Act on communicable diseases has been mentioned. Of course, this can be commented on by the STM itself, but there seems to be no tool for this limitation. That is why it was concluded that this law will now be passed on to us from the Ministry of Labour and Life, that is to say, from my presentation, in order to get this thing moving quickly. That's why we ended up here. Then, with regard to these conditions of insurance, they are agreements between private companies, and it would not be possible to go through them in a government proposal. This is just the truth. Thank you for this debate. I think it's good that we're going through this from many sides. This is really now in the hands of Parliament, and I hope that we will move forward with this. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u161	Mr President! As I mentioned in my speech, this abolition of days of special responsibility for laid off or laid off, as well as this reduction in working conditions, are excellent and extremely important decisions, and the labour market organisations also showed their strength to be able to agree and, of course, I wholeheartedly support them. But what I wanted to emphasise in my speech is that, when this decision in particular is going to affect unemployment in the services sector — it will mean that tens of thousands of people are going to be unemployed — and when it comes to the unemployment fund in the services sector, which I think has dealt with an average of 2000 applications per month, and now there will be no 20,000 applications but even more applications per month, the question is that people will not have the opportunity to expect, when humanly it is understood that there are no skilled handlers and there will not be enough time to go through the whole process and wait months for a decision to be made on the earnings-related allowance, but now we need to find the means by which payment can start right away and then more afterwards. The same is true for the Social Insurance Institution: for those who are not members of the cashiers and who will receive basic daily allowance, there will also be long periods of time and people need to earn a living right away — so just as much is needed there. This was what I meant by this consideration of workers in the situation where, unfortunately, tens of thousands are now being laid off or laid off, they cannot remain without a livelihood for months.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u162	Mr President! I would like to thank Minister Hatais for sitting here with us late at night and for answering questions. But we must also remember why we sit here late tonight, because this weekend the party was really on and people even went all the way to Kainuu and Lapland and used the restaurant services to their advantage. I would also like to point out, Mr President, that, while we are now in the process of catching up the food shops, would it not be appropriate at some point to consider the need to close the shopping malls? And when Mr Vestman mentioned earlier that 60 per cent of Finland's corona infections, 800 infections, are in Uusimaa, we should also think about this closure of Uusimaa. I myself was here all weekend as a renegade congressman. For my part, I made sure that I did not go to Kainuu and accidentally take any infections, and I am very pleased that no cases of infection have yet been recorded in Kainuu today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u163	Minister Hatainen is still involved in this unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u164	Mr Arhinmäki, I wanted to respond. I share the same concern, and these unemployment funds fall within the scope of the STM, but, of course, with the Ministry of Employment and Employment all the time, because we are working together. There the process goes in many ways together, but the activities of the cashiers are carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. But there is now legislation that makes it possible to pay an advance. The government has had a debate that we now need to promote in many ways the ability to ensure that money comes into people's accounts, and now another thing is how to make Kela's systems work. This is all we're looking for. But these instruments that exist will be used, and must ensure that these systems also function and serve its purpose. This cashier, the PAM cashier, has already been burdened, but so many other cashiers will be, and more resources are being allocated to it to provide additional resources for this process. It's obvious. But we share this concern, and we will find ways to make this work. Everything may not go exactly as it has been so far, but it must be prepared, but all means are used.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-24-ps-31.u165	Mr. Speaker! Here Mr Kettunen made an excellent speech and, in fact, I only saw on behalf of the opposition — while a few of us are still here — we would like to thank Minister Hatais first of all for your presence here. Nor has it always been quite the case that the Minister is so persistently present to justify his own motion, to answer questions from Members of Parliament. This is a very big, important issue for us in Parliament that the members of the Government, in this way, also respect the work of this House. Although there are different opinions here, I believe that we share this objective, and we are obviously prepared to continue to discuss what different views we would have on how entrepreneurs can be supported at this point, and I believe that there is also a lot of common ground there. Mr. Speaker! Here is just our thanks to the Minister for the exemplary and fine manner in which he has presented and answered our questions here in Parliament today.
