ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 11/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u2	Mr President! I am sorry that I had not asked to speak in advance, but I will present this committee's report at the beginning of the debate. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes the adoption of a proposal for a temporary amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, as amended. The aim of the proposal is to provide, as exceptional circumstances continue, for food service activities from 1 June 2020, for restrictions which can be opened to customers and at the same time prevent the spread of coronavirus disease. The provisional law is intended to be in force on 31 October 2020. . The legislative proposal is a follow-up to the temporary amendment of the Act on accommodation and catering activities, under which the catering businesses have in principle been closed to customers since 4.4. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers the temporary provisions proposed in the Act on communicable diseases to be necessary in order to prevent the spread of communicable diseases as regards the opening and delivery times of restaurants and the number of customers and the use of their premises. In addition, catering businesses are obliged to comply with specific hygiene requirements and to ensure adequate distance between customers. The nutrition movement must also draw up a plan on how to implement the obligations and restrictions laid down. The Committee considers it important that restrictions such as the closure of restaurants should be phased out at an early stage with caution, as has been or is being done in many other countries at the same time. The committee considers the gradual dismantling to be in the interests of both restaurants and their customers. The procedure also requires continuous monitoring of the epidemic situation, as the removal of restrictions may lead to an increase in the spread of the corona virus and exacerbate the epidemic situation. The committee considers that the government proposal emphasises the safety of customers and workers as restaurants open up. At the same time, the Committee considers it important that the impact of the measures and the need to amend them be kept under regular review and that the necessary measures be taken to tighten or mitigate the situation. Resources must be provided for monitoring the implementation of restrictions. The committee supports the adoption of a draft law with amendments to be made on the basis of the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. According to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the proposed law cannot be provided for under Article 23 of the Constitution on exceptions to fundamental rights, but must comply with the general and specific conditions of limitation of each fundamental right. Following the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes to clarify Article 58a of the Act. The committee proposes a number of clarifications under Rule 58a In particular, the article states more precisely the obligations of the service provider and the requirement that obligations and restrictions should be necessary in a factual and regional manner. For example, a Government Decree may provide for more detailed provisions in areas where the obligation and restriction are applied. Such a regulation shall be adopted unless restrictions are necessary to prevent the spread of infectious disease throughout the country. The Regulation could also apply to regional deviations from certain obligations and restrictions laid down in Article 50a or under it. This regulation takes into account the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the necessary condition must be governed by law by decision on regional application and that restrictions cannot be imposed or maintained in areas where it is not necessary due to an infectious disease situation. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health stresses that the Government must carefully and frequently consider the need for a proper and regional dimension of the restrictions. The committee is in favour of setting a limit on the maximum number of customers in the catering business at an initial stage of 50% of the number of indoor seats. The committee proposes to amend the provision on opening hours and drinking time in line with the draft regulation contained in the government proposal, i.e. it is possible to open between 6 and 23 o'clock and to issue alcoholic beverages between 9 and 22 o'clock. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes that the present proposal, as well as the previous regulation on exceptional circumstances, has highlighted the need to develop the provisions of the Act on communicable diseases. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health feels, like the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that it is justified to introduce permanent amendments to the Act on communicable diseases which may prove necessary in normal circumstances after careful preparation. The committee's report contains two objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u3	Mr President! I would like to raise three points of view here. The first is that it is a very good thing that we have found ourselves in a situation where we can start to alleviate these restrictions on the restaurant business. This is the most important thing for the future of our restaurant industry that we should be able to move as quickly as possible to normal conditions, so to speak. If these restrictions, which are now being introduced in the context of the amendment of the Act on communicable diseases, become fully applicable throughout Finland, this does not, of course, mean normal conditions. This leaves many restrictions in place. My second point of view is that these restrictions are not entirely unproblematic either. Consider, for example, the situation that we have a general assembly limit of 50 people, but small restaurants cannot take that amount in. I understand that there are certainly proper reasons behind these restrictions, but I very much understand the criticism that is being directed at this. If you think of the situation that we have lunch restaurants coming into contact with restrictions on take-out tables, then you might ask whether it is entirely appropriate, if you think of the situation that we have a waiter offering tables and that he can spread the virus as he goes around all the customers, or at the same time we have staff restaurants that are free to use the buffet. Of course, they do not differ in any way from other lunch restaurants. Most importantly, when applying this article, the government takes very seriously the detailed arguments in the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which are also very similar to those of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs relating to the territorial application of these restrictions, which was also asked by Mr Junnila here in the previous plenary, but which I will answer in this plenary, because this matter is being discussed in this part-session. It is stated here in the detailed explanatory memorandum that ‘the restrictions may not be imposed or maintained in areas where there is an unavoidable disease situation. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health stresses that the Government must carefully and frequently consider the need for a proper and regional dimension of the restrictions’. Often enough means that it will certainly be more than once a month, even though this amendment of the law will remain in force until the end of October. The third point I would like to make is that, on the whole, I hope that the government, apart from regionally, will:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u4	Mr President! I asked to speak on this subject to reflect on this aspect of regionalism, which is particularly challenging here. First of all, for the sake of clarity, as the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health now sets out and takes account of the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I fully support Articles 58a and 58b. In a rather broader and more detailed form than in the original proposal, it was because of the fact that things in the regulation have now been brought into this law. I want Rule 58a of this. ‘In order to prevent the spread of the disease throughout the country, The fact that, in practice, the regulation will be able to provide for this will be quick if rapid changes take place in these circumstances themselves. What is at stake here was clearly demonstrated in the discussion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and in the numerous opinions we have received. For example, the opinion of the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa states: ‘On a general level, our assessment of the release of restrictions may lead to an increase in the spread of the virus and THL’s opinion states:‘THLconsidersit very importantthat,whenrestrictionsareextremelyrequired,the sameisthe case in Although the incidence of Covvid-19 has been calculated on the basis of So this question of territoriality does not mean that we are now looking at how many infections there have been in each region or whether there have been any in two weeks, but that the issue is that the restaurant business itself... I did not quote that opinion from THL any longer, but the following paragraph describes in great detail that both in Finland and in other countries there are such conditions in the restaurant itself — close association, often then alcohol consumption in that context, eating, drinking, all of this — that it is possibly the case, as we talked about already a few months ago about coronals in some of Finland's provinces, although they did not in principle have any infection at that time. So this is a very demanding balancing exercise, and it is good that the regulation will then allow the Government to react quickly if the situation changes. But this territoriality must therefore be taken into account, but it does not mean a formula.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u5	Mr President! In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we drew attention to this limitation of the number of customers and to the length of time available. The problem is that, under the conditions set out here, profitable business is still not possible for many restaurants. In other words, we are restricting the business sector so that in practice it will lead to the need for compensation for these companies in the future. The 50% customer limit in the presentation for restaurants has been drawn from the surveys mainly from the hat. What is the basis of this figure, 50 percent? In the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, this figure should have been further justified. Safety can also be ensured by a slight increase in the number of customers and by self-monitoring and hygiene. It is important that restrictions such as the closure of restaurants should be lifted with caution. However, the epidemic situation in different parts of Finland is very different, as has already been noted here. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has therefore drawn attention to the fact that restrictions cannot be maintained in areas where it is not necessary due to an infectious disease situation. A large part of Finland is now in such a situation. I would like an answer here, for example, as to why Inker's Lunch Coffee in Lake Kortes cannot normally open its doors on June 1st. on the day when the corona is not on the land or on the land. These are the constitutional questions on which we must have answers. This report, of course, takes account of the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and regulations are being drawn up. Does this therefore lead to the lifting of regional restrictions in those areas where the epidemic situation allows it? Opening up profitable restaurant activities can — I fear — be lost in the red tape sea, and financial discipline continues. Mr President! It is clear that all restrictive measures taken on the basis of the Act on Contagion must be health-based and necessary. However, the Assembly believes that it is justified to look at the epidemic situations in different regions in a flexible manner and to allow for regional variation immediately 1. From 1 June. The government has known this will state of the Parliament, but among other things, the criteria for carrying out the evaluation are still missing altogether. Mr President! The Assembly has objections and amendments to this report, which will be presented in the course of this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u6	Mr President! This bill also shows how the new situation in terms of the corona epidemic is for society and also for legislative work. We have not been as prepared for crises like this as we should and as well as we thought. We have been a society in some kind of stress test for the last few months and, as a whole, we have been doing quite well so far, even though mistakes have been made. After the epidemic has passed, however, we must carry out a careful analysis of the successes and failures in dealing with this crisis. We also need to learn from mistakes, and in that way we need to prepare ourselves more carefully and better for future crises. President! On several occasions this spring, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has found itself in an unreasonable situation, inter alia because of the urgent timetables for its opinions. The committee's experts have also repeatedly criticised the timetables they have been given. This was also the case in this draft law, which is why the final sentence of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is one of the key areas for further learning. The committee notes: ‘The proper performance of the function laid down in the Constitutional Act of the Constitutional Committee will be jeopardised by the The timetable must not prevent the Constitutional Committee from doing its work carefully. It is a question of verifying the implementation of fundamental rights. Even in exceptional circumstances, it cannot be ignored. Thank you once again to the committee for doing its work with care, despite almost impossible time pressure, and not ignoring the constitutional problems in the draft law. The committee that works in this way is in the interests of all of us. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has made the necessary changes to the bill, and we will have this law in place before June, and the opening of restaurants can be carried out in a controlled manner. I agree with the Committee on Social Affairs and Health that, in order to prevent the spread of infectious disease, it is necessary to lay down temporary provisions in the Act on communicable diseases on the opening and delivery times of restaurants and on the limits of the number of customers in their premises and outdoors. The epidemic is by no means over. It is now important for entrepreneurs to be given clear instructions on how to apply the law, and let us really hope that everything is going well. It is now important to monitor developments particularly closely. President! During the examination of this bill, it has also become clear that changes have to be made to the Act on communicable diseases after returning to normal conditions, but this work requires careful preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u7	Mr President! It is excellent that in Finland we are now gradually able to dismantle these restrictions and return to that normal life. In that sense, I must say that we have succeeded well in limiting this epidemic in Finland. I have to be proud of that. In committee today we were discussing this, and the two subjects we discussed very much were regionalism and necessity. They were also the things that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had rightly pointed out in its opinion. I have pointed out before in this Chamber that Finland is a large country and we have very different conditions across the country. At the moment, for example, there is no infection in Lapland for two weeks. I have just heard from Southwest Finland that there has been no first infection in Satakunta for three weeks. The situation in Uusimaa is quite different. In that sense, it is very good that this is being looked at regionally. The second point that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs drew attention to was the necessity and the justification for necessity: it must be justified why it is necessary to limit it. In its report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has stressed that this argument must be based on epidemiological criteria. It cannot be justified by what might happen, but by what is the fact, what is the epidemiological situation. If infections start to rise, then you have to reverse, increase restrictions; if nothing happens, then you can gradually loosen up more. In this respect, the Assembly will submit a motion for a resolution, which the Finns of Finland have supported in committee, including the fact that this review of necessity should be carried out as early as 1.6., i.e. immediately to examine whether these restrictions are needed in each province in such a strict manner. The second thing we have supported in committee is that the opening hours could be extended from 5 p.m. to 24 p.m. We have tabled our own objection to paragraph 4. I shall now read the full text of this explanatory statement. The last sentence here is our presentation: ‘The Social and Health Committee considers that, in order to prevent the spread of the disease, the temporary provisions proposed in the Act on Infectious Diseases and Restrictions on the number of visitors In addition, catering businesses are obliged to comply with specific hygiene requirements and to ensure adequate distance between customers. The nutrition movement shall also draw up a plan for the implementation of the obligations and restrictions laid down.’ And now we add this to this: “The committee emphasises that there are different risks to the opening of different types of restaurants and that there are no limitations on the risks related to the use [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u8	Mr President! The package of restaurants from different backgrounds has been circumvented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and I must say that each committee, in its own valuable way, has brought very sensible comments and also changes to the proposals. Even now, it has to be said that the chairman of the committee: Under Vehviläinen's leadership, the committee has done good and competent work. The closure of restaurants and cafés from customers for two months will have had a strong impact on both Finnish everyday life and on the lives of restaurant owners and employees as well as on livelihoods. The restriction has been a very significant interference in the freedom to conduct a business and the protection of property guaranteed by the Constitution. However, these restrictions have been assessed and continue to be necessary to prevent the spread of the corona epidemic. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has therefore amended the Government's proposal in such a way as to show more precisely the responsibilities of the nutritious operator. This is a good thing, but I am still calling for the responsibility of the customer, not only for distances but also for hand hygiene and, in general, for sensible and sensible behaviour. It is particularly important that the Committee's attention is drawn to the fact that obligations and restrictions must be necessary at regional level. That is an important point. After the amendment, therefore, the Government may, by decree, specify the duration of the restrictions by region, depending on the infectious disease situation. So here we are on a very important matter of common sense. Each individual obligation and limitation measure shall be subject to an assessment of its necessity. That is the point I would also like to thank the committee for. Both regional and restaurant-specific game eyes have great wisdom. President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers the proposed restrictive measures to be necessary to ensure the safety of customers of nutritionists and from the point of view of controlling the epidemic, but let us encourage customers at all, let us encourage Finns on June 1st. from day one to use restaurant services, it is important to support them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u9	Mr President! The committee has done a good and careful job in dealing with the proposal, for which I would like to thank the whole committee very much. Legislation on the closure of restaurants is exceptional in many ways, since the fight against the epidemic has now limited the freedom of business and property protection of the entrepreneur. Therefore, restrictive measures must be used only to the extent and to the extent that they are absolutely necessary. This has already been mentioned on many occasions in this Chamber. Mr. Speaker! When we discussed this proposal in the referral debate, there was a particular view that the government's restrictive measures do not take into account any regional differences in the context of an epidemic. How could it be justified that these same restrictive measures should be imposed on a 100-year-old dietary entrepreneur and on an entrepreneur here in Helsinki when the infections are concentrated here in Uusimaa and, similarly, in Satakunta, for example, no new infections have been detected for almost a month? The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has made a very strong statement on this proposal and its problems, particularly as regards the necessity and proportionality of the proposal. In dealing with the proposal to close the restaurant business earlier, the committee considered it necessary to limit the scope of the regulation on a regional basis. This is where Mr Lindén raised the opinions received by the committee, which have been raised by various parties, but I believe that the Constitution sets out the framework conditions under which this House must legislate, and then we just have to ensure that the situation is monitored and, if necessary, other measures are taken. Now, Mr President, the committee has rewritten this Article 58a in such a way that the Government regulation provides for a longer opening time, a longer drinking time and a higher maximum number of customers if the restrictions imposed are not necessary to prevent the spread of infectious disease. This is a very important and justified change which responds to this will of Parliament. So it is now up to the Minister of Responsibility to prepare this more precise regulation so that the regional differentiation required by Parliament in relation to these restrictive measures is achieved and, of course, we expect the Minister and the Ministry to act in this regard. Mr. Speaker! I am sure that Mr Laiho and my fellow Members will raise the content of the objection to the vote, which relates, for example, to the limitation of the number of customers and other factors on the basis of which we have then decided to object in committee, but I will not go to them at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u10	Mr President! The Koronavirus has been subdued in Finland because Finns have scrupulously followed instructions and recommendations, and that is a great thing. Finnish society has been largely open, unlike Central Europe — and unlike Central Europe, for example, restrictions on shops and business activities have not been imposed in Finland mainly on companies that depend on public events and on restaurant activities. It is precisely restaurant companies that have been subject to the most extensive restrictions on freedom of trade due to the corona virus. The sector has therefore had to bear a very significant burden on combating the epidemic. Of course, international examples show that nutrition activities, in particular nightclubs and bars, pose particular risks to the spread of the virus, which has also been highlighted in this debate. From the outset, when these restrictions were imposed on restaurant activities, at least it has been unclear to me what comparison or assessment is based on the fact that this particular sector is subject to such extensive restrictions on freedom of establishment, but there are hardly any restrictions on other situations with a similar risk of infection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u13	Mr President! It is a good thing that we can open up society gradually, gradually and constantly evaluating and monitoring changes. It shall also be possible to take backward steps if necessary. We are still living under exceptional circumstances, but on our way to more normal conditions. Now is the time to open up your own ideas and practices to normal. We need to use the services available so that our companies can have customers and the work goes on. The interest rate situation is peaceful in Finland. Thank you to the Finns for their obedience and compliance with instructions, regulations, and thanks also to the Government and the decision-makers for their good decisions. In the midst of incomplete and incomplete data, there have been necessary restrictions and recommendations, and that is why we are in this situation, like many other Western countries, where restrictions have begun to be dismantled and relaxed across Europe. It has been found here many times that the disease situation in Finland is very different in different parts of the world. When restrictions are relaxed, even when relaxed, they will never be problem-free, as Mr Salmon has already said. The situation of small nutritionists is difficult in a region where there are not many infections. It is frustrating to act under restrictions, but such a necessity assessment has been carried out all the way. Restrictions and their necessity have already been assessed when the President and the Council of State stated the exceptional circumstances, and that necessity has also been assessed in the Constitutional Committee throughout the spring. Thank you to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which, on the basis of this evaluation, made the necessary changes to this draft law. The third assessment of the necessity of restrictions is carried out in the work of law enforcement authorities. This also involves the territorial necessity of restrictions. Of course, the possible new waves of the epidemic should be taken into account, but the government and the authorities should often consider the time limit and the necessity of the restrictions. This can be done differently in different places. I would also like to join Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen in the hope that the legislative changes will come in time for the Constitutional Committee so that it can do its work in peace. It's great.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u14	Mr President! First of all, I was going to say that it's great that Minister Kiuru is in the Chamber, but I think he left. I would have asked a question and I would have asked it now if he came back or listened to it from somewhere else. I would have liked the Minister to be here because there are many questions that have not been answered. I would have asked, and I ask now: is the Minister going to reform the alcohol law when strong speeches have been made in favour of the sale of restaurants and the distance selling of small breweries? Now to this case of infectious disease. As far as the timetable is concerned, I would have said that it is extremely regrettable that this law came to Parliament with all its lime lines, and this is a particularly difficult situation for entrepreneurs. It is, of course, important that we now get this bill moving forward. I say that roses must be given to the government and the Finnish people, that the infections have been broken, but here there are rucksacks from how entrepreneurship is understood. We are about to raise an objection to this motion, which is being presented by Mr Laiho, and I very much hope that it will be supported. Then a few questions, and I really would like to see a representative of the government present, that Parliament should have the answers to its questions. Many things are still open at this stage. For this health-based status: When restrictions are imposed under the Act on communicable diseases, restrictive measures should be health-based, they should be necessary. The government has so often hidden behind this necessity without any justification. Many experts have found that the very thin ones have been the government’s arguments. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also found it problematic that the explanatory statement of a government proposal does not give a detailed account of the necessity or proportionality of each of the proposed measures. And now I would have asked the Minister why and if he could answer, but he is not there yet at least. Then the territoriality of restrictions, which has received strong support throughout the Chamber, but for some strange reason, even though the Constitutional Committee and Parliament have required it, the government has not wanted to take this regional customisation as its own and not to take it forward. Now it has been put to the point with regard to the Act on communicable diseases, and I would now have asked the Minister: is this now going to be taken up as Parliament will probably decide here? I would have liked to have heard from the Minister about this. Then, Mr President, briefly on these arguments. There are limited customer places and opening hours, and the reasons why these are chosen are very thin. Here Mr Sankelo very well pointed out that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously raised figures and perhaps a little stronger economic arguments as to how restaurants could:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u15	Mr President! The Government decided on 6. In its Resolution of 1 May 2020 on a plan for a hybrid strategy for the management of the corona crisis. The decision has found that the restrictive measures and recommendations adopted have succeeded in curbing the epidemic and, in particular, in protecting groups at risk. The epidemic has now slowed down, and it is therefore also necessary to start dismantling the restrictions. In the Government proposal 72, it is proposed to provide for restrictions on the use of restaurants and cafes for the safe opening of restaurants and cafes to customers in the event of exceptional circumstances, while at the same time preventing the spread of coronavirus disease again from the beginning of June. In this bill, the number of customers inside the restaurants should not exceed half of what is included in the licence or approved building plan if the number of customers needs to be limited due to the epidemic situation. If there is no need to limit the number of customers, the Government may, by decree, provide for a higher maximum number of customers. The Government’s proposal has been refined in such a way as to show more precisely the obligations of the nutritious operator and the requirement that obligations and restrictions should be necessary in a factual and regional way. The closure of restaurants and cafés from customers for two months has had a strong impact on both Finnish everyday life and on the lives and livelihoods of restaurant owners and employees. The restriction has been a significant interference in the freedom to conduct a business and the protection of property guaranteed by the Constitution. However, the restriction was considered necessary to prevent the spread of the corona epidemic. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has modified the Government's original proposal so that the Government can, by decree, refine the validity of the restrictions more precisely than the government's proposal, according to the regional infectious disease situation. Each individual obligation and limitation measure shall be subject to an assessment of its necessity. Regional government agencies would monitor compliance with restrictions and obligations and could set out the shortcomings and shortcomings which they have identified. The catering business of a restaurant or café that has substantially breached the obligations could be ordered immediately to be closed to customers for up to one month. The proposed law is intended to enter into force from the beginning of June and to remain in force until the end of October this year. It is necessary that the Government closely monitor the validity of the conditions laid down in the law on restrictions. If the conditions for the validity of the restrictions are no longer met, the temporary provisions must, of course, be repealed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u16	Mr President! It is great that the restaurants are now open, and it has been very important that efforts have also been made to find a model for it to be done safely. I regret, however, that this proposal has been brought here with such lime lines in relation to the fact that next Monday restaurant entrepreneurs should be able to open their restaurants and this is a very short time to be prepared for the way in which it can be done. In this respect, these restaurant entrepreneurs find themselves in a rather disproportionate position. Well, then, from the actual show. In the opinion of the Coalition Party, Parliament must require the Government to take into account the different infectious situations in the provinces in these restaurant activities from the beginning of June. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, restrictions cannot be imposed or maintained in areas where it is not necessary in the event of an infectious disease. From the point of view of companies, this is an essential consideration in the sense that this would reduce the losses caused by blocking measures for companies. The coalition group would also require the Government to relax restrictions on the opening hours of restaurants so that they could be open from five in the morning until midnight, and also flexibility in these customer numbers. Our basic idea behind this is that the opening of restaurants must be not only safe but also profitable. Finally, if this is the profitability point, that we have to be able to open restaurants in a profitable way, then of course we must also remember this aspect of security. We also discussed it today in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and stated there that we consider these regional regulatory differences to be good and necessary, but of course they also involve risks. Although there is no disease in any region at the moment, the fact that if people come to restaurants and move around across the country, we must not prevent these regional applications from being applied for, but they demand such national guidance alongside them and, above all, this monitoring of the epidemiological situation. In that sense, it is very good that this proposal has now been accompanied by this regulation, which will then be able to react flexibly. Let us courageously proceed by region, but let us react when the situation changes on a low threshold if it is necessary from a safety point of view. All in all, when you search for solutions that are safe and profitable, you will find the best solution on such a road. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u17	Mr President! First of all, this government proposal to amend the Act on communicable diseases has been dealt with in Parliament on a very fast-track basis, and there is a great deal of urgency because it is supposed to come into force on Monday 1 June next week, and I know that the restaurant operators are also waiting for this decision. It is clear that, under these exceptional circumstances, the protection of the health of the population is a very important criterion for the fundamental rights system, including the restrictions that are now being discussed. The intention is to impose temporary restrictions on the feeding business which, on the one hand, can open up business to customers while at the same time ensuring that the spread of the corona virus epidemic is prevented. As I said, the basis for everything is the protection of human health. The restrictions that are now being discussed apply to opening hours and drinks and the number of customers in restaurants. In addition, catering establishments are obliged to comply with specific hygiene requirements and to ensure distance between customers. It is essential that the epidemic situation is closely monitored and, if allowed, the restrictions are phased out. This has also been done in other countries. It must also be borne in mind that, as things get worse, there is also the possibility of tightening restrictions — certainly none of us hopes for this, but there is a willingness to do so. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed amendments to the draft law, which were supported by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. I believe that the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs may speak on these issues more specifically today. This issue also contains questions of fairness — questions of equal treatment for all operators in the sector. Similar experiences of the treatment of injustice have also included, for example, restrictions on older people or, for example, subsidies from Business Finland. It is very difficult to act under these circumstances in such a way that everyone can feel that they are being treated fairly. We in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health are also looking at this. This was not an easy task with a very fast timetable: there are regional differences in the epidemic situation and different actors in the field of nutrition, and so on. Now, legislation first applies to all actors on an equal footing. However, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health stresses that the dismantling of restrictive measures can also be differentiated regionally if the epidemiological situation is allowed, which will reduce the financial losses caused by restrictive measures. However, the committee would point out that this increases the risk of a re-emergence of the epidemic, because there is a risk of infection in restaurants and the movement of citizens within the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u18	Mr President! We are dealing with a proposal which will have to weigh very carefully both the constitutional, economic and health aspects. It is very important that restrictions such as the closure of restaurants should now be phased out at an early stage, with caution, as has been and is being done in many other countries. The phasing-out of the restrictions requires constant monitoring of the epidemic situation, as the dismantling of the restrictions may lead to an increase in the spread of the corona virus and exacerbate the epidemic situation. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs pointed out that restrictions cannot be imposed or maintained in areas where it is not necessary due to an infectious disease situation. The removal of restrictive measures may be differentiated regionally where the epidemiological situation allows, thereby reducing the financial losses caused by the restrictive measures. However, according to the study, regional regulatory differences present significant risks for the re-establishment of the epidemic, as infection can spread in restaurants and in the movement of citizens within the country. For this reason, national guidance and careful regulation based on epidemiological analysis are essential. For the reasons set out above, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considered it important that the impact of the measures and the need to amend them should be reviewed regularly and that the necessary measures should be taken to tighten or mitigate the situation. Mr President! Finally, when Mr Vestman asked why restaurants are now being restricted to more than other similar companies, I could actually quote directly from the THL statement, which reads as follows: “Luxembourg international examples and also experience gained in Finland have shown that the epidemic can accelerate most of the situations In such situations, a person may be exposed to a large number of viruses, which can trigger extensive transmission chains. Nutritional movements may, without the restrictions laid down in the legal act, form such holdings that constitute a risk for the spread of infection. It is not possible to estimate in advance where the potential exposure could occur in the locality or in the premises. Extensive exposure situations make it difficult to trace and quarantine exposed persons, which may pose a significant risk to the epidemic. “
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u19	Mr President! Restaurants and cafes will be opened on Monday 1 June next week, and now we are dealing with this law, that the time has come to regulate, and there many restaurants will certainly look forward to what that regulation will be. We in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have been of the opinion that the opening of restaurants and cafes must be safe, but it must also be worthwhile, that they should be able to do so, and that, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, when we are considering this particular aspect of profitability, the most time may have gone to this question of ‘half of the restaurant’s customers’ and we consider why we should be considering why we should be thinking about it. Could not the minimum distances, hygiene and self-monitoring of restaurants have driven this issue — especially in view of the fact that terraces do not have those regulations so precisely? It already seems that when you watch the news, there may be megaterasses coming to the centre of Helsinki and elsewhere, which then do not have to follow those rules so closely. Of course, it is hoped that this self-monitoring will work there, but we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy actually took the view that 75% of these customer seats would have been a better point of view if a percentage point had to be set, and it is based on the fact that it is very difficult for small restaurants in particular to open their doors profitably if only half of them can be filled. The second thing that was considered in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was buffet food, which was then categorically banned. Here, too, we stressed the importance of self-monitoring that it may be possible to create queues in restaurants when you have to wait in line for that dose, just like in school meals, and you also have to hire more staff, and that, of course, puts the cost pressure on you, because if you can fill only half of those customer places, then there is also no cash flow to cover the costs. Then one thing was also this proposed opening time of 6-23. Of course, this is understandable in the sense that nightclubs will be excluded in this situation, i.e. when they usually open their doors at or around midnight, it is quite understandable that they will not be opened at this stage, but that in practice means that support for restaurants will be needed after that. Mr President! I would like to draw attention to this aspect of regionalism. Of course, the infection situation throughout the country must be taken into account, but it is really absurd if you have not had corona infections for a long time in the area that then did not
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u20	Mr Ojala-Niemelä and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u21	Mr President! In fact, our restaurants are closed until 31 May, and now, from 1 June, we have these relaxed restrictions, or, to be precise, we can say that these are new restrictions for the restaurant sector. Those hearings heard that nutrition is a risky activity: closed spaces, close contacts, people's sociality, and when combined with alcohol consumption, so often this leads to these restrictions still being justified. This applies to opening hours, giving and the number of seating places, among other things. But it is good that we have reached the point where, in line with the precautionary principle, these restrictions can now be phased out. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that this draft law was intended to provide for a temporary derogation from the Constitution in accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution, which would have been in force on 31 October, under the ordinary legislative procedure. Until the end of October. However, there was the problem of adopting the position that these exceptional circumstances would then continue until the end of October. However, we cannot have full certainty about this until then, and that is why this motion under Article 23 of the Constitution was dropped and the articles were written into the Act on communicable diseases and, furthermore, the regulation was given a mandate. Then there has also been a lot of discussion here about the scope of the restrictions. They have now been given, at least initially, at national level. However, restrictions on restaurant business must be justified as necessary in each region individually — this was emphasised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Korona virus has spread to all regions, but on the other hand, the disease has been concentrated in Uusimaa and the virus has slowed down. From this point of view, it is not entirely straightforward to regard regulation as sufficiently limited at regional level as required by this necessity. On the other hand, however, it is appropriate that the draft law and its explanatory memorandum have constantly stressed the need to monitor whether restrictions are necessary in each region and, in general, the need for the Government to take immediate measures to repeal or amend regulation, also increases the acceptance of regulation from the point of view of necessity. The reduction of these restrictions at national level everywhere at the same time and in the same way could, at least now, be seen as a coherent procedure, but it is, of course, emphasised that this will not only be formal in the future, but will be carefully examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u22	Thank you, and then Minister Kiuru, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u23	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for having done a really large amount of work in a very short space of time. On that point, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs correctly interpreted in this spirit that the use of Article 23 of the Constitution for exceptional circumstances is beginning to be an issue in this epidemiological situation, which should begin as the disease situation improves towards ordinary legislation. I believe that it is precisely that confidence that we are also starting to achieve results after these tough restrictive measures, namely that we are moving towards ordinary legislation. When the preparation of this proposal was started, the disease situation was still in favour of legislation based on exceptional circumstances. This has been May sitting on this issue, so now, when we look at the disease situation, it is very easy for it to change precisely to justify that we are close to the day when exceptional circumstances will then no longer prevail. The Parliament has now responded to this need in such a way that the law under consideration allows fundamental rights to be limited by ordinary legislation after careful consideration of the conditions under which they are restricted. We are very serious about the fact that this necessity must be assessed at all times. That is why I think that both the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have set out a good way forward. In this respect, I think that the debate on how this has progressed and progressed in such a timely manner is very appropriate. As far as I am concerned, this was known to the Government because there was also a need to seek this right way between the various ministries to bring the proposal forward after a temporary amendment of this Act on accommodation and nutrition has actually been made. In the future, there was a question of which ministry, which legislation would be needed in this epidemiological situation at all. Now it really took some time for that to happen at the head of the Government, and it is quite clear that there has also been considerable pressure on the timetable in Parliament. In this regard, I am very humble enough to accept these deadlines, and in this situation we are really between wood and bark when we have to assess this epidemiological situation on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u24	Mr President! We are now dealing with a temporary amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, which will tighten the opening hours of restaurants if necessary. The Coalition Party regrets that this was brought to Parliament at the last minute. This does not really appreciate Parliament, nor do the restaurant entrepreneurs who are waiting for information about when they will be allowed to open their restaurant. The disease situation is good at the moment, and it makes sense to phase out the restrictions so that the re-launch and recovery of society and the economy can begin. However, the Coalition Party requires that any restrictive measures taken under the Act on communicable diseases be health-based and necessary. Since this fixed-term law has been proposed to be in force for a relatively long period, until the end of October, the Assembly considers it necessary to assess the epidemiological situation at regular and frequent intervals and to provide information on the reasons for it to be made available to all. We want to be able to open nutrition stores in a controlled manner. The situation of communicable diseases must therefore be taken into account in all situations, and restrictions must be tightened or eased in the light of the epidemic situation and in the light of regional considerations. It is important for the government to define clear national criteria and indicators on the basis of which a stricter or less restrictive measure is to be decided. Regular, up-to-date and publicly available information on the basis of decision-making is essential. In particular, smaller restaurants will have difficulty coping with the restrictions proposed in the government proposal. In the opinion of the Coalition Party, the increase in the percentage of customers' seats from 50 % to 75 % would have a significant impact on income formation and profitability, particularly for small restaurants and cafés, from the point of view of profitability. We also believe that the opening hours should be relaxed from 5 p.m. to 24 p.m. This would allow, for example, professional operators to use restaurants early in the morning and also more rational evening use of restaurants for evening mealers. It makes sense to keep nightclubs closed for the time being. We have therefore proposed a change to these clocks so that food service activities can be started at 5 p.m. and stopped at 24 p.m. In the same context, this alcohol-related sentence could be removed here because it is inappropriate [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u25	Mr President! The committees have done an excellent job in this respect on a tight schedule. Much has been said in the Chamber in connection with this regional review. From that I would perhaps go back to this basic philosophy, that is, the whole purpose of this is that we are able to keep this disease under control, preferably in practice suppressed, so that whenever an infection occurs it is traced and those chains of infection are closed down, and that is why, quite harshly, one industry is still being restricted, and that is justifiable. But in practice, of course, there is always a balance here, that is, the very fact that we must always find the means that actually work, so that we can achieve the objective of managing the epidemic, but which then do not overburden society. That is why this constant evaluation is emphasised, and this in fact gives the government a very great responsibility to take the right decisions on the basis of this law in the future. This law, which, in this form, is an enlightened assumption that by putting customer places on the side, as well as these times and these restrictions, we will achieve the objectives of this epidemic. It may be that those initial assumptions could be different. There are now various points of view coming up here, but from my point of view it may not be worth making the world's biggest issue of authority. It is a question of finding its balance. This law, in fact, is based on the fact that, when there is no such necessity, these regulations will then be screwed in a different direction or in another direction, that is to say, this is a well-built base in this form. But I would stress that this really puts a great deal of responsibility on the one hand for the fact that continuous evaluation, the collection of experience, the production and collection of research evidence, the monitoring of the rest of the world, all this, that it must be based on continuous evaluation, must make good decisions on how to limit this restaurant sector. And as Mr Laiho said, I would stress that it is very important here that the knowledge base on which this assessment is constantly being carried out is public, transparent and can be used as a basis for discussion throughout society, because then we will also have a certain degree of trust and legitimacy in this type of restriction. But otherwise, I think that this is a very good framework for opening up this sector at the same time, but to ensure that we keep the interest rate under control.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u26	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for their vigorous work. — — — — Was this also in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy? [Parliament :Oli! ] At the time when the closure of the province of Uusimaa was decided earlier than planned, the government declared that ‘inasmuch as it is unaligned, this restriction on fundamental rights, ‘it must immediately cease’. Now, if there were a Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, who then said that it was a legal fact, I would ask the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson — I will not bother you, Minister Kiuru, with this legal matter — that what is necessary today, at this time of day, to keep all the cafes and restaurants closed in the provinces or medical districts where this virus has not been present for weeks. Of course I understand that people move freely in the country, that is not what this is about, but how is it necessary? Of course, this necessary term is a flexible term, as is always the case in legal matters, but I shall now read the relevant sentence of the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, ‘that restrictions may not be imposed or maintained in areas where there is no need to deal with an infectious disease situation’ —how is the current situation in the context of the Constitution? In my view,the current situation,at this time of day, at this time of the year,is very problematic in the light of the Constitution and Well, this question of this necessity. At some point in his column, Saska Saarikoski wrote that Ruokolahti, for example, has more information about the famous Ruokolahti lion than about this corona virus, and this describes the situation in very many municipalities, in very many provinces. And now that the government, by this regulation, which we have seen in the draft, is going to implement exactly the same restrictions in all provinces and in all medical districts, I would just like to ask: Is it compatible with the Constitution? The fact that restrictions will then be relaxed in some areas is, of course, justified, but why is it necessary for Pori and Rauma and everywhere to put all the same restrictions into effect on 1.6.? I don't.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u28	Mr President! It is great that we have an epidemic situation in the country at a time when we can open restaurants and cafes more widely. A big thank you to all the citizens for that. In the future, of course, the citizens, each of us and our behaviour, will depend on whether the cafés and restaurants can continue to be open and whether the activities can be completely normalized. I hope that this process will go in this direction. In the Constitutional Committee, we carefully examined and evaluated and listened to a number of experts. It was quite unanimous that, on the basis of Article 23 of the Constitution, this amendment, the bill, cannot be taken forward, and I see that it is otherwise wonderful that articles are now being added to this Act on communicable diseases. We have had a very good Act on communicable diseases, which could have been used more firmly and to a greater extent since February, March. There are shortcomings there, and I hope that in the future the Act on communicable diseases will be evaluated and improved overall, but that this government proposal will be introduced as a new article in the Act on communicable diseases, I now see it as a very good thing. It is understandable that there are questions on this side and on the other side as to whether it is right that there should now be similar regulations all over the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u33	Mr President! I guess that this opening of restaurants will take place a great deal with how customers and restaurant owners can trust that it is safe to be there. In fact, I think it is at the heart of the question that customers have the courage to go to restaurants and restaurants feel that they are able to provide such safe conditions. In fact, I think that now that a few weeks have known that this gradual opening is coming, people have already started making reservations at tables, indicating that people are “suffering ” from your head to restaurants.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u36	Mr President! It is indeed wonderful that these restrictions can now be phased out and thus open up society in a controlled manner. Indeed, Finland has done well in this regard, and I am glad that today, both in this sitting and in the previous sitting, we have been praised for the good functioning of the government, even since the meeting. Indeed, restaurant entrepreneurs and workers are the great sufferers of this spring, and I therefore welcome the fact that this sector is now being opened up as soon as possible and as much as possible. But at the same time, as the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health states, we must also ensure the safety of both staff and customers. In addition, this threat of an epidemic spreading in Finland has unfortunately not disappeared, and this epidemic is still dangerous for some people, even life-threatening, so it is quite justified that when these restrictions are lifted it should be done in this way gradually and gradually, as is the case now. Finally, I also think it is important that these restrictions now being imposed are then regularly assessed, so that this situation must be constantly assessed precisely in terms of how the disease situation develops and how these new restrictions and obligations laid down by the regulation work. There has been a lot of talk here about these regional differences, and I am not going to repeat it, but I think that, for example, Mr Berg has very well pointed out the arguments of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health as to why national guidance is also needed. Furthermore, as Mr Tanus, for example, pointed out, it is also his own belief that the government can, on a very fast schedule, at the level of the regulation, mitigate these restrictions, either in the whole country or in the regions, so that is something that can be tackled. My own view is also that the government is already committed to the fact that this assessment will be carried out all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u37	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz is right in his criticism of the difficulty of these necessity criteria that they are nothing objective, measurable and their own problems come from the rigidity with which changes are made. Just these regulations for the implementation and implementation of the Emergency Response Act always require parliamentary scrutiny and a lot of work. It cannot, by its very nature, have repeated changes to regulation, either regionally or over time. Well, then, in the citizens' guidelines, it may be more flexible. The citizens themselves reinterpret those instructions and their senses and meanings and can then be freed from action as they see it. These standards are difficult precisely in order to get these restrictive measures as close as possible to the different situations and parts of the country. Unfortunately, there is no such stepless control button or remote control that can control them very accurately in time and regionally. Now, however, this new mechanism makes it possible that, when it comes to ordinary government regulations, they could, in principle, be specified and modified every couple of weeks or months without being subject to this parliamentary procedure when the majority of these restrictions were raised to the level of the law in this Act on communicable diseases. This kind of safety principle is typical of preparedness standards, that in order to be certain, there must be effective mechanisms to prevent the spread of a dangerous infectious disease. It is also automatically the idea that, in every situation, they are not necessary on the last, but that in order to alleviate the disease, they must be part of the region or part of the situation, as it were, a little too much of a safety margin. It has also been discussed about allowing half a restaurant to be used for customer seats. Well, now, if you think about it, we don't have many such restaurants where more than half the opening hours would be full or almost full. In other words, if you think that table reservations, appointments, could introduce a larger part of the opening hours, then virtually the same number of customers could be run within 24 hours in a restaurant, and when you think of the size of the changes in your life due to this disease, this is probably not an impossible idea that, for example, in food restaurants, such changes in customer behaviour would occur. This is also the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u38	Mr President! The government can be commended for the determined efforts made this spring to manage the corona crisis. It is difficult to say whether we have managed to control it, but in any case this epidemic has not been able to rob Finland in the same way as in many other countries. Now, in turn, gradually, perhaps in a good time, these restrictions will begin to be lifted. That time is definitely coming up, and now is the right time to do these things. This is, as Mr Koskinen has just pointed out in the previous speech, a good point of view of the fact that we are also beginning to differentiate, recognising the need for this regional differentiation. It uses epidemiological criteria when this necessity assessment is carried out, on what basis this differentiation can be made, and it would also be acceptable for the government to reflect, and we are also thinking, of course, of functional differentiation — there are different types of restaurants, different types of restaurants, different types of nightclubs and so on, which are also partly licensed, naturally, but also have a different character as the proponents of this kind of virus epidemic. In this respect, this differentiation is worth taking forward. I, too, remained to reflect on Mr Zyskowicz's constitutional reflection on this necessity, and when I am not a lawyer like the previous speaker, I shall avoid taking a completely legal position on this issue as to whether the current situation is already unconstitutional or non-constitutional. Instead, Mr President, I would like to try to make a political assessment of what the opportunity is for all of us in this House, and in this respect I personally would see, as the previous speaker did in his speech, that this has probably been a question of minimising risks. We have an unpredictable fiddler among us, whose impact we do not know, we do not know how it spreads, how much risk is actually at stake. In the world, we have examples that the risk is enormous when it is realised at its worst. Even the health system is threatening to collapse and has collapsed regionally and locally. These are too great a risk, and that is why this necessity comes from here through political reflection, not necessarily through the epidemiological situation in each place, and I think that, when the minister is here, I say, the government has acted wisely in this regard. We also have an example of a country far too close, where we see that this risk has been assessed in a slightly different way, in the west of our neighbouring country, Sweden, where there will then be a long debate between Finland and Sweden on this. When the time goes by, history is being written and evaluated for what has been done, I am afraid, at this point in time, I fear that Sweden will have quite a ventilation debate and will refer to many, many times how this situation was taken more cautiously in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u39	Mr President! It is really great that we can now be controlled and cautiously and step by step towards opening up society and also restaurants, because the restaurant industry has been one of the biggest sufferers of this corona spring. However, it is important to ensure the safety of both staff and customers when opening up business. In my opinion, the dismantling of restrictive measures, such as this opening up of restaurants to their government, should be looked at regionally, as has been said several times in this Chamber debate and as the report also states, and it is worth asking whether such strict restrictive measures are necessary both in Helsinki and in those regions where there have been no new infections for weeks. Of course, the primary concern is to care for the health of the customers, and no one should be exposed to the corona virus. It is also very important that the restrictions now being imposed are reviewed and evaluated on a regular basis. Restrictions may be maintained only for as long as they are necessary to prevent the spread of infectious disease. I refer to this opinion of the Constitutional Committee, in which the Committee stresses that ‘the necessary condition is to guide the decision-making process on a legislative basis on regional application and thatthereis no way to regulate or maintain restrictions I myself have considered in this context when we have discussed the opening of restaurants, that, for example, the opening hours of grocery stores or the number of customers are not limited by law or regulations, even though they are also exposed to both staff and customers. There are thousands of people dealing with large markets every day, and they also involve quite high risks, communicable risks, even at times other than corona times, i.e. noroviruses and others are easily contagious if hand hygiene is not taken care of and so on. But on the other hand, I am glad that the stores have taken account of the security intervals and the customers are instructed, the handicrafts are available and people themselves distance themselves from other customers, so that is how they understand how to behave. In my own speeches, too, I would like to stress that we each have a responsibility for how we behave ourselves, and we also keep to these precautions when restaurants are opened in a controlled manner. It must also be remembered that these infections, such as those following the opening of restrictions, do not appear to be going out of the way to accuse restaurants alone, because we open society in a number of ways, that is to say, at the same time opening up places of leisure and libraries, and it is understood that the risk of infection will also increase when people get together. But I am glad that the government has taken action. It can already be acknowledged that there was a need for restrictive measures, and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u40	Mr President! At the interlude, I think I said a moment ago that I was trying to respond to Mr Zyskowicz in this intellectual challenge he presented, because I thought it was a very good intellectual challenge. I will tell you how I personally feel about this necessity and also about the fact that 1.6. it should not be done immediately that different provinces or other regions are placed in different categories. It goes with the following logic: 14. On 1 March, it was Saturday, there were 210 confirmed coronavirus infections in Finland. In Lapland, only two, Kainuu not one, in the Western North not one. Ten days after that, on March 24th, the ski resorts were closed, on Monday 24 March the five said that the restaurants should be closed. Well, we took a 10-day process, Friday 4.4. until, in practice, this legislative delay took place. So this could be a quick change. So from the back of 14 March it had been a month, of course it had been that there had been no infection in these provinces, because this epidemic had not yet begun in Finland. In other words, if we have had a peaceful situation somewhere for two or three weeks, we cannot quite conclude from it that it has created the conditions for a completely safe transition to, for example, a significantly wider opening time than is now being proposed in this proposal. I am quite sure from Mr Sankelo's example that the Kortesjärvi lunch restaurant is now certainly one of the least risky places if we are thinking of restaurants. Mr Zyskowicz mentioned Ruokolahti here, in a metaphorical sense, but it made me think, and here I am saying — when the Minister is here — that I have an important message: What do we mean in the region? We are now following certain areas of the THL every day, per region, we are monitoring the infection situation by hospital district, we closed down Uusimaa in accordance with the county border, which is not exactly the same as the hospital district. We have a single capital region, where 200,000 people pend across municipal boundaries. Did you mean, Mr Zyskowicz, perhaps by the example of Ruokolahti, that we should decide on a municipal level, delegate the management of this epidemic to such an extent that we would take municipal decisions? Finland is not a federal state, like the USA, where governors have exercised significant power. If this were the case, I think that in Helsinki the mayor should have taken a few very rigid measures, because this Helsinki has been our outbreak.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u41	Mr President! After all, that vote was a huge disappointment. The motion of the Coalition Party to sell soft alcoholic beverages out of restaurants was rejected by all government parties, although it has been very strongly supported by the party leadership of the government parties, even the parliamentary groups. It would have been a really cost-effective way to turn the economy around, give restaurants the chance to try in this difficult situation and improve services responsibly. When it has been strongly said in this Chamber that small breweries would have the right to sell at a distance and restaurants would have the right to sell out and also reduced VAT on restaurants, then, Minister Kiuru, I asked this once, but you were just outside the hall at the time, I will ask now if you are listening up there: has there been any talk of this by the government parties? What do you think, are you going to reform the alcohol law, or is there some kind of silent or noisy agreement that does not do so? I'm begging you to hear... — the Greens have a party meeting decision, the esteemed chairman of the Central Parliamentary Group has strongly argued in public for the right to sell out small breweries, the right to sell out restaurants. Can you answer: is it possible that we can wait for the reform of the alcohol law for this parliamentary term to come? That would be big news, and I'm sure that's what restaurants and Finnish cities are waiting for. It is also an act of urban culture. Then I'll ask you about the infectious disease. If and when you certainly read the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, it was stated there that it is not quite justified that only half of the seats should be introduced and a larger figure was raised. Of course, health ahead of us, safety ahead must start the business wheels, but if you also have the opportunity to think about entrepreneurship and the fact that restaurants are profitable, could you justify this to Parliament before we start voting on this bill and making decisions about how this chapter was chosen? Is there a reason why it is just 50 and could not be, for example, 75 percent, as is the case with the opposition to the Assembly? Do you judge the effects of this Act on communicable diseases, that what does that mean for entrepreneurs — is there any chance for an entrepreneur to open restaurants and cafes when you have brought this bill? Has such an impact assessment been carried out? I would stress that safety and health are, of course, ahead of us, but the government should always also assess the impact of entrepreneurship. So is this done?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u42	Mr President! To sum up, the package of legislation on restaurants seems to be a torso, although the government must have had good intentions. As is the case with compensation for interest rate losses, these restrictions on working hours and opening hours are not fully considered. The fact that the ceremony is stopped at 10 p.m. and the restaurant is closed at 11 p.m. does not limit the gathering of people and dating each other during the summer. I may be wrong, but I think that dating and parties will continue on summer nights in some other environment, such as parks and summer cottages, because summer is holiday time in Finland and nights are warm and bright. Nutrients could have been allowed to have both abstinence and opening hours until 24 hours. This would have been a significant benefit not only to restaurant entrepreneurs but also to taxi entrepreneurs, for whom every hour of the evening is a very important earning time. Furthermore, the restriction that the restaurant’s indoors may have customers up to 50 % of the maximum number that has been accepted is too restrictive. This percentage should have been 65% or 75% depending on the size of the restaurant, so that small restaurant companies too can survive in this post-column period. Regional differences should also have been taken into account. The infection situation is very different in different parts of Finland. Yes, one must remember that summer is a holiday period when people have a lot of leisure time, and that is why thousands of restaurants make a big part of their year's turnover and results in the summer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u43	Mr President! I agree with the thanks that have been given to the committee here, but I also pay great attention to this regionality in my own speech in this debate. Recent THL figures from these cases indicate that there are 6628 confirmed cases of infection in Finland. After they were divided by municipality here, I calculated that Helsinki, Espoo and Vantaa alone are already over 4,000. When Mr Lindén said here that it is difficult to define when there are no states or others, it is true that there are no states, but it is quite clear from this map that two are regions, Uusimaa and then this Meri-Lappi because of the Swedish connections where these amounts are clearly higher than anywhere else in Finland. As Mrs Zyskowicz pointed out, the question is whether there are now grounds for restricting the activities of restaurants outside Uusimaa and Meri-Lap. The good question is, is it? What I understand is that restaurants are different types. For example, nightclub activities — and I understand that very well — are something that is not to be opened anywhere in Finland yet, but with regard to food nutritional conditions and these restrictions, there would certainly be strong grounds for taking account of these regional differences. Then maybe a few more points of view. I come from a place like Sastamala, which is a very large cottage community. I remember talking at the Prime Minister's mouth at the time that we should not go to the cottage now, that it is a big risk of these infections. There hasn't been a single infection in Sastamala since the people came to the cottage. Everything that's ever been used to be. I think or know that this situation is almost the same in Finland. That effect has not happened, even though the people have gone to the cottages, that the infection has spread, even though many of those who came to the cottage have come from, for example, Uusimaa. I would argue that it is because, unlike at the beginning of this epidemic, people have taken this issue seriously, followed the recommendations, take care of security intervals when shopping and doing business, and that is what they will do if they go to a café and a restaurant. So it is a way of keeping this issue under control in the future, even if it is a little more liberal. Finally, Mr President, last point: here the chairman of the committee, Mr Vehviläinen, said that what is essential is whether people dare to go to a café and to a restaurant. That is exactly the case, but all the more reason why this should be opened in the majority of Finland now, so that it can send a message to the people that it is now there
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u44	Mr President! Of course, it is difficult to balance the spread of this disease and then gradually open up society. There are no easy solutions and we have had to deal with these proposals very quickly when, of course, the epidemic has taken us all by surprise. In my opinion, this is now a fairly balanced proposal on how we are going to dismantle the restrictions. Perhaps the criticisms of the Assembly have been rather confusing sometimes when very clear practices have been sought at first, and when guidelines are given and these are weighed together in good cooperation in committee, then it is not what is desired. It would be quite unfair for restaurants if this were based only on self-monitoring and self-assessment that what should be done should be done. There would certainly be those who are well functioning and very obediently wondering how they can safeguard people's health, but then there would certainly be those who would not follow the common rules of the game, which is certainly also reflected in MaRa's perspective, where they want the same kind of instructions for the whole country. Tracking the transmission chains has in fact been surprisingly effective and should be continued so that we can keep this infection situation very low. Instead, it has now been heard that the prevalence of infections, the prevalence of epidemics, is not likely to be as widespread as was thought, which, on the other hand, can tell us that the disease is actually more dangerous than initially thought of, so this should be borne in mind when considering such situations as restaurants and parties where people meet a lot of each other. In a certain way, they are quite different situations from this grocery store, where you can stay away from other people and keep them more easily. Domestic tourism takes off in the summer, and that is, of course, a great thing. It certainly also means that people from Uusimaa visit different parts of Finland, and of course this will cause a different mix in the movement of people and in the disease situation in the provinces, perhaps. All we have to do is learn to use new research data, examples of other countries in terms of what is the new normal in which we live, and then change the way things work as the data accumulates. Indeed, there have been and use of very clear guidelines in many countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u45	Mr President! The disease situation has improved, and it is very good that this is why we can now gradually and gradually dismantle these restrictions. It is certainly not in anyone's interest, as has also been demonstrated in this debate, and therefore the move towards ordinary legislation has been shared with pleasure. However, it is still necessary, given the clumsy incidence of the corona, that we do not move on to a completely normal one at a time, as Mrs Lindén has rightly described here. The end of this law is not yet completely normal, even though it is from the opposition's point of view by means of harassing. It is clear that the Act on communicable diseases is not exhaustive either, but I believe that, after these improvements, it will be a better and more effective whole in this transition phase. In some places in this debate, all dimensions have been joyfully mixed. Personally, I see that the dismantling of restrictions, subsidies to compensate for losses and confidence are three different things relating to the restaurant in this proposal. As far as these customer places are concerned, I can see that, after this performance, restaurants have about the same rules as in the rest of society, where we continue to observe security intervals and make sure that we are careful. People are quite aware of the nature of this corona and the clumsy behaviour, and I do not think it is possible to think so much that opening up all the restrictions at this point would give the best possible result. This is for the safety of people, but also for the sake of regaining this trust and for people to seek these services. As the representative, the chairman of the committee, Mr Vehviläinen, described earlier, we must be pleased with the mockery of confidence that is already visible in the restaurant industry all over Finland. The economy is psychology, as Mr Zyskowicz said in 93 Ilta-Sanoms, in the post-Last Depression.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u49	Mr President! Indeed, the Coalition Party has objected to this motion. In that previous speech, I mentioned these changes in the articles relating to these clocks and to this number of customers in section 58a and also to the fact that it is removed from this supply of alcohol. Personally, I see very strongly that the Act on communicable diseases is the Act on Contagion and that alcohol sales are then related to the Act on Alcohol and that they are then dealt with there, and I therefore reject the fact that they are combined in this way. The responsibility of restaurants and people is very important, and it should also be given more weight here. It is important to have the courage to go to those restaurants and to have the confidence that the restaurants too will have the courage to provide those services. Surely it is a matter of honour for every entrepreneur to keep the hygiene high so that no infection from their own restaurant goes forward. It is also important, of course, to have adequate guidelines and supervision in the field of regional government agencies, but here I would like to call for confidence in entrepreneurs, confidence in citizens. The citizens themselves expect compliance with certain safety intervals and a certain level of hygiene, which is why it would also make sense to extend these opening hours. I hope that the situation can be reached as soon as possible that there is no need to have different criteria for one sector than for other sectors, because then we will have to continue to support those whose business activities have been limited in such exceptional circumstances. In this context, I would also point out that it is of the utmost importance that the strategy ‘tests,traces,traces’ is ‘effectivelyimplemented,that we actually catch up with theinfectious chains,if any,at the moment and that they are effectively missing. However, the coalition wishes to suppress this disease and, despite the opening of the restrictions, we must have this process in order. I hope you have paid sufficient attention to this, including in the Ministry. I am asking here, while the Minister is still here: when would the overall reform of the Act on communicable diseases be brought about?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u50	Mr President! We are therefore dealing with a temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases, and this is a universal infectious disease, covid-19, and we have an obligation under the Act on communicable diseases to combat a general infectious disease. Personally, I believe that people have well learned and followed the instructions and safeguards that have been recommended, that we can both combat, suppress and open society at the same time in a controlled and safe way. As far as restaurants are concerned, I think it would be worthwhile to open restaurants at 5 a.m., not only from 6 to 11 p.m., but also from 5 p.m. And that at 11:00 p.m., especially in the summer of Finland, comes very quickly to say that it might also be thought of allowing us to stay open until midnight. I would still like to see that, when we talk about terraces or even those restaurant halls in different areas, the most essential thing would be to consider that there would be sufficient space between customers at the top of the plan and implementation. I would also like to see a wide-ranging assessment of whether these terraces could be extended and spread further in order to make this gap a reality. Same as in the restaurant halls, I would think, which is the number of places, so the most essential thing is that you can then do business loosely and safely enough. This is the same for all other sectors and sectors, even though I think about what has been raised here in the debate. I would like to see all actors in this situation taking into account their adequacy — whether they are screens or what — in all other sectors, even though it is not compulsory by law or regulation in particular. Then I would have liked to ask the Minister — thank you for being still there. This proposal states that the regulation will be more specific in the area of cleaning the premises and surfaces of the nutrition movement, for example. Has there been any talk or, for example, do the ventilation issues come up? After all, there are European epidemiologists who have raised the fact that when the droplet is the most important, but whether these particles, viruses or how to float, this quite traditional old-fashioned push-through or ventilation time-wise could be very effective. And I can tell you that a couple of months ago, when I was visiting a pharmacy here in Helsinki for example, I have asked if two doors could be opened when there are a lot of people and they're breathing there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u51	Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. Motions presented by Laiho, which are included in the objection to the Assembly. Then I ask — when the assembly has strongly argued and supported and many Members of Parliament have supported this House, as I too am very much in favour of giving restaurants the right to distance and out sales, that that right also exists in small breweries — whether it is possible that those proposals are already in preparation, or whether it is possible that they will be produced during this parliamentary term, because a very large number of representatives of the Government Party expressed hope that not at this stage, but later, not in connection with this proposal, but later. This gave hope, and when many follow this also from restaurants, many from towns and cities, many from Finland, I hope that the Minister will answer whether it is possible to get those presentations to Parliament a little later. Mr President! The economy is indeed psychology, and it is important that we can open up society safely, and that requires that there is also a sense of security and courage for Finns to move forward. I ask: will the government hold a press conference on this too, because there have been many briefings about the restrictions and many Finns expect the government to say now, as one infectious doctor said, that it is now safe to go to the store if you take care of hygiene, so could the minister say that it is safe to go to restaurants? At the end of the day, I'll tell you when summer's coming. After the Prime Minister has said that now is not the time to go to the cottage, will the government at some point say that it is safe to go to the cottage? It is very important that these kinds of messages also come when Finland is opened.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u52	Mr President! In my opinion, the WHO representative has once said very nicely that this virus must be learned to dance with, and that is exactly what fits this restaurant debate. It is indeed the case that sometimes we have to go forward and backwards and certainly also roll in the other direction, as we have now done in Finland, which has been a very good solution. There are times when we have been blackmailed and then we have been relaxed again, and that is something we must probably continue to do in the future, and that is why I am very pleased that this kind of customisation has taken place. Finland cannot be closed all the time, it is quite clear, that is why these kinds of activities must be carried out. We must have the opportunity to move safely, to meet people safely, to work safely and also to consume safely. This is also about entrepreneurship and business life. It is now very important that we use the Act on communicable diseases and certainly not the Act on Preparedness. With the Act on communicable diseases, we are able to tailor and limit these types of issues, and it is very good that the committee has done an excellent job together with the Constitutional Committee. “Definition ”isthedaywordandwehavetodothis. And really, sometimes you have to tighten up, sometimes you have to loosen up. Then just about what I would like to see taken into account. With such new guidelines coming, I would first of all like to support all those who have been put forward and protested in the committee, but it is also important now that, if and when something is decided, there should be clear guidelines, and they are very similar instructions for the open and the business community. It's not going to work out at all if they're confused. Unfortunately, there have also been such mixed instructions, and, for example, the instructions given to people over 70 that there was a recommendation that ‘you should be obliged’ in Finnish practice. Therefore, while you are now doing these instructions to those who are willing to do so, you must include a lawyer who considers that the instructions given are also lawful. It is also important to take account of this sectoriality. Now, of course, let us begin to compare what a sector gets — how much people are allowed to meet, how much they are allowed to be in the same state — and another sector is not getting it. For example, I am taking schools: when there are big schools, large groups and all in all big schools, now, however, restaurants can only keep a certain number, even though those schoolchildren are there all day. So there are a few such things that need to be compared now. But all in all, I am pleased with it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u53	Ärade Herr Talman! Med denna lagändring kommer restaurangerna på måndag den 1 juni öppna med en hel del begränsningar för att säkerstalla att man minimerar risken för spridning av corona. Öppningen är mycket vämmemme. Tack till regeringen för för förslaget och till social- och älsovårdsutskottet för snabbt arbete, för det har variantt bråttom, lite lä skyndsamt, Vilket också grundlagsutskot konstaterar. Med det rauh förslaget och det rauta beslutt kommer restauranterna att ordna med att det finns tillräckligt fysiskt avstånd i utrymmen inomhus, och gällande maximala antät gäster. Alkohol får säljas till klockan 22 och restaurangerna måste stängas senast kluckan 23. Personligen hade jag önskat att försäljningen hade fått pågå lite längre. Jag är ändå glad att det blev en förbättring mot det som man först Talade om. Förhoppningen är ändå att man snart, om smittläget hålls lågt som nu i hela landet, ska kunna lätta på begränsningarna ytterligare. Samma regler föreslås nu också gälla i hela landet, och rai kunde man också ge en mer regional frihet utgående från smittskyddsläget i oika delar av landet — något som grundlagsutskottet starkt också tar ställning till. Regeringen har sagt att situationen kommer att granskas continuerligt, första gången före midsommar. Förhopningsvis är det då öjligt att man också släpper på begränsningarna ytterligare redan då om smittskyddsläget så tillåter, för begränsningarna måste hela tiiden motiveras av smittskyddsläget — något som också grundlagsutskottet konstaterar.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u54	Mr President! In a speech, the attitude of the Assembly was questioned as to the readiness of the information and evaluation studied. I think that is exactly what we have been thinking about making use of information. We do not necessarily need a single categorical model and a ban in exactly the same way across the country, but also a more flexible and regionally differentiated situation and solution. This means opening up restaurants with courage, monitoring this situation and responding with a focus on that monitoring data in the event of a change in the epidemiological situation. Our interest is that we can open restaurants so that they are profitable, but that they are, above all, safe for people at the same time and have these models. In this respect, I agree with all of these things that Mr Laiho has brought here in response to our protest, but also in the committee, Mr Vartiainen made a good proposal which was adopted unanimously: ‘The dismantling of the measures can be isolated regionally in the context of the epidemiological situation, which reduces the financial losses caused by the non-proliferation measures. However, according to the study, regional regulatory differences present significant risks for the re-establishment of the epidemic, as infection can spread in restaurants and in the movement of citizens within the country. This underlines the need for national guidance and regulation regulation based on careful and epidemiological analysis.’ So the very fact that we are following and taking these perspectives and acting in a flexible way through the settings was very condensed. Then I will take up Mr Laiho's very important point of view on this sense of security. That is exactly what we need here in Finland now when we open up society. It is clear that we need guidelines and controls, but above all we need confidence in restaurants and people. I myself have learned to think that trust must be given in order to be worthy of its trust, and now, too, the challenge and the ball must actually be thrown and dared to throw and demand that responsibility from everyone. In that sense, it is good to put this discussion of our restaurants in context. Restaurants are just one link in this opening up of our society. People have left and are increasingly going on the move, children to schools, people to parks, picnics or beaches, swimming pools, different types of hops, jobs. The number of encounters will increase a lot. Here we are going to need this model of testing, tracing, isolation and the fact that we are all responsible for preventing this spread through adequate protection, adequate hygiene, distances. We can all influence them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u55	Mr President! I would also like to raise the issue of the Constitution and the necessary measures, which were also raised by representatives of Zyskowicz and Vehviläinen in connection with the examination of the Temporary Act on Diseases. In this context, considering that on 1 June we are opening restaurants, but we have very different situations in different parts of the country, and many places have not been infected for several weeks, we made a proposal for a statement which will then be put to the vote on Friday, but this would be the case: ‘The government requires that the State Council take account of the very different types of infections in different regions in the restrictions onnutrition movements. from and take immediate action to lift restrictions where such restrictions are no longer necessary in an area or to the extent provided for.’ In this context, I would now like to ask, while the Minister is still here, whether it would be possible for the government to present some areas, for example, which would not be covered by this enlargement by 1 June. These restrictions will now apply to all, regardless of the epidemiological situation. Another point in relation to this communication, when it comes to informing restaurants and citizens: we have restaurant entrepreneurs from very different cultures and also citizens from many languages, so that you have also taken these different language needs into account in information, both for restaurants and for citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u56	Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to answer some questions. At the end of this debate, Mr Laiho asked quite frankly whether it would be possible to assess the fact that this regulation would be adopted in another way. Yes, good preparation is accompanied by the fact that Parliament has the regulation to start off, and it has now been dismantled by three committees. These conclusions of the committees do indicate that this regulation is now going to take place from 1 June. It is clear, however, that this debate is already having a good lunch in case of the way in which these further rounds will take place. We have left behind the idea that every two weeks this will be evaluated and the first assessment will be made there during the Midsummer Week. In that respect, valuable information is now being gathered on how to open restaurants, however, so that we can ensure the safety of people. Today we are not dealing with the amendment of the alcohol law, but we are dealing here with the amendment of the Act on communicable diseases. The point of departure of the Act on Disease Control is precisely to protect people from infection. Yes, Finland is still, could you say, in a rather virgin situation, in the sense that it must be admitted that we are living in a risky situation. At least on a world scale, we have still had fewer infections, and we are the ones who are trying to prevent any infection in this country. In that regard, there is actually a risk analysis of the necessity which Mr Zyskowicz here sought from a number of other Members of Parliament. Yes, the assessment of necessity is very important. On each issue, we will have to assess precisely whether these measures are necessary. In the past, under exceptional circumstances, we have done these very much. In this case, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs came to the conclusion that we can do this with normal legislation. In this respect, the necessity must be assessed at every moment. I think that's right. Whether the necessity will be fulfilled in this proposal has been specifically evaluated by Parliament, and today the results can be seen in this proposal. Several different measures have led to this situation, where we are now. We have had a number of different restrictions, and it is difficult to use such precise mathematics or such precise epidemiology as to be able to tell quite frankly what action has led to this disease situation in any way. That is why it is quite impossible to predict how this opening of restaurants on 1 June will change in an exact manner in the event of a disease. Thus, in this assessment of necessity, it is precisely the fact that the available information we have from the world, which has also been evaluated in this government proposal, the way in which restaurants have actually been the first and, in general, the last ones to which restrictions or even direct bans have been imposed, and the examples from the world have led to the fact that restaurants are exposed to different kinds of risks and that there may be widespread exposure to the disease in nutrition stores. At the moment, it is precisely when these restrictive measures are opened that we must be very careful to ensure that this work done, which the Finns have done, does not go to waste. And that is why these measures must be assessed in the future with very rapid cycles, so that we can move forward faster in these restrictive measures if we allow them. For example, Mr Kauma spoke here that the coalition line was security and profitability. I think it is everyone's line, but the fundamental starting point in the Act on Disease Control is that here we are talking about safety and health risks. In this situation, in the light of the expertise that has been gained, I cannot assume that this is a competitive singing exercise. Yes, half of the customer seats are quite different from 75%. In that regard, even at the moment, when measuring what is the maximum number of customer seats, then surely everyone will also be able to think how safe it is for restaurants to be quite full. However, this situation has not led to the regulation in which, for example, many countries have defined these issues with metric accuracy, or even how many customers can have a certain number of squares, and in this respect a rational logic has been sought. In practice, we have three conditions: to be asymptomatic to come to a restaurant, to take care of hygiene and also safety intervals. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u57	The vote will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session shall be resumed on 18.35.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u58	The sitting adjourned at 6.30 p.m. and the second item on the agenda are now resumed. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u59	Mr President! With regard to the amendment to Article 58a, which amends the fact that the food service business may be opened to customers at the earliest 5 p.m. and the business must be closed to customers by 24 p.m. at the latest, and the following sentence is deleted: ‘The alcohol drinks intended in the Alkohol Act are allowed to be consumed in the food service movement at the earliest 9times and shall be stopped at the latest22. “ In addition, a change is made to allow a maximum of 75 % of the largest number of customers or persons mentioned in the liquor licence referred to in Article 18 of the Act on the holding or part thereof, or, where the catering company does not have a liquor licence, in the construction plan approved in accordance with the provisions on the fire safety of buildings adopted under the Law on Land Use and Construction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u60	I support Mr Laiho's proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u61	Mr President! I also support these excellent proposals!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u62	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, TyVM 7/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u63	Mr President! After all, the draft law amends the adult education allowance, its determination so that in future, a person studying part-time alongside work will receive a little more support and a little less full-time student. In addition, efforts are being made to simplify bureaucracy by making use of the Incomes Register. However, the committee supports the proposals without amendment, with the following comments: The challenge of adult education support is that women who use it and those who are already well-trained use it. The greatest under-utilisation is among men with a low educational background who, however, would be the group that would benefit most from adult education. The committee stresses that this proposal, while facilitating study in addition to work, may be a step towards better targeting of support. The solution to the problem also requires other changes in terms of student guidance, mentoring, available training services and the way they are organised. In addition, the committee draws attention to the fact that the cost-neutral method of implementation in the proposal in practice means that if part-time aid is not used as assumed, this law will become a law on cutting. Its effects must therefore be closely monitored and amended if they appear to be warranted. The Committee also draws attention to the fact that the eight-year employment history requirement for adult education is quite long, taking into account the accelerating pace of the labour market and the national objectives of lifelong learning, and proposes that this be considered at a later stage. The Committee also draws attention to the need to further improve the understanding and predictability of the system. The Finnish education system, especially with regard to adult education, has a considerable bureaucratic burden, and when it is combined with the bureaucratic burden of adult education, the result is in no way attractive after this reform either, let alone predictable. The committee also draws attention to or points out that no changes are being made to adult education aid for entrepreneurs and that it should be brought closer to adult education support for employees in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u64	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for your presentation. It is a good thing that he also clearly stated here that it is possible that this law, when this neutrality is to be implemented on the cost side, can also become a law of surgery. Here, in particular, the Committee on Education has drawn attention, and also in this referral debate, to the fact that these changes to the rules of conciliation do indeed increase this adult education support for those who are doing something in principle, i.e. they have the support of their own merits if they do not significantly reduce their own work. Of course, the Committee on Education also draws attention to the fact that, if this amendment to the rules of conciliation then attracts these adult education users considerably more, then it may be that this neutrality of benefit expenditure does not materialise, but will then increase these benefits. Mr President! However, it seems that there has been consensus in the committee on this matter and that it has been assumed that we need a report from the Government on the impact of these reforms as soon as possible. At this stage we will have to settle for the fact that, if this report is to be obtained, we will then examine whether this has gone for the worse or for the better. It is important to encourage the use of adult education and to involve as many people as possible, because we have spoken so much in this society about lifelong learning and encouraging people to do so, that is to say, if this from the small part of our society could take us in that direction. But there is indeed a fundamental flaw in this proposal that, in principle, this will better safeguard the livelihood of those who already have a source of income, and in this committee it is wise to make this contribution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u65	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for a clear presentation. In this respect, the adult education allowance will be changed to the benefit of those studying in the course of work, and it is also good that the bureaucracy will be simplified. This time and corona will change the needs of knowledge in our country. At the same time, as working life changes rapidly, continuing self-improvement becomes more and more important. It should become a natural part of the work. Technological developments significantly change every third job. The most declining and changing jobs are low-paid and require shorter training. New jobs will require a high level of competence and skills. The role of older people in working life is also growing. It is worth remembering that Finnish people's competence and participation in education is generally at a good international level. However, the development of knowledge is building up strongly. There are quite a lot of people in Finland who depend on comprehensive school and low skill levels. It will no longer be enough to go to comprehensive school in the labour market. That is why continuous learning is needed. The OECD has stated in its report that Finland does not have a comprehensive continuous learning strategy. In fact, the government has appointed a parliamentary renewal group for continuous learning, which is looking far into the future. The OECD also drew attention to the fact that Finland has large differences in participation in education between people with a lower and medium or good level of skills. Targeted support is limited, applicants are missing and there is also insufficient support for studies. There are too few specific targeted study programmes. The provision of training therefore does not meet the needs of working life very well. This government's proposal is also helping to respond to these challenges. It promotes this continuous learning. It improves access to continuous learning for employees of working age and creates better opportunities for reconciling work and studies. The committee was concerned that the reform could undermine the possibility of studying in adult education. Therefore, the reform must be evaluated and monitored and carried out as necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u66	Mr President! I myself have been an adult trainer for a long time in my career, and that is why I am particularly interested in these matters of adult education. I have seen the same thing in my own work as the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, i.e. the most educated students in the course of their careers and the least educated students in the course of their studies. In its report, the committee pointed out that there are even exceptionally large differences in participation in adult education between socio-economic groups in Finland, i.e. almost half of the beneficiaries of the aid are tertiary graduates and almost three quarters receive higher education through the aid. In its current form, adult education support, which is least educated and most in need of education and training, is not optimally served in relation to the requirements of a changing society. In particular, low-skilled people and those working in low-paid sectors should be encouraged to study during working lives by developing a training system with more flexible opportunities for reconciling work and studies through adult education. Dismissing yourself completely from work and moving to full-time students is not economically possible for many because support during education is not sufficient to cover living costs. However, as has been pointed out above, this bill does have a dwindling defect, and adult education support may be weakened, especially for those who take part in full-time studies. It is therefore important that the effects of the reform on both full-time and part-time studies are closely monitored in order to assess whether the objectives of the proposal are met in terms of more equal and effective use of the benefit. There is also the committee's proposal for a statement. I very much welcome the fact that the Government will submit to the committee a report on the impact of the reform by the end of next year. In my own work as an adult trainer, I have also noticed, like the committee, the importance of paying attention to peer support, mentoring and the identification and recognition of what has been learned in order to make learning encouraging. It is important to provide more low-threshold flexible training services for people with the least motivation in education and training to increase skills levels and reduce segregation. Success, even a small one, is often followed by a desire to continue studying and studying. Adult education and adult education know-how are more needed here, as motivation and encouragement for adults require different methods and approaches than working with children and young people. At the end of the day, Mr President, the draft law is an important part of the promotion of continuous learning, but that is not enough. We need a broader proposal to promote continuous learning, and fortunately we have this parliamentary group on continuous learning, which will come forward with a proposal by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u67	Mr President! At this point we are already talking about amending the law on adult education benefits. I feel that this time with the corona and lay-offs makes us think about priorities. It is precisely this continuous learning that must be at the forefront of the objectives at this point when considering the productivity of work or the well-being of people in Finland. We need timely, new research — which I call scientists here — how the covid-19 pandemic will affect the needs of adult education in the future or to facilitate continuous learning. For example, there are not enough coders and people who market online stores at the moment, now that ten thousand companies have suddenly become enthusiastic about online commerce. It will certainly be putting adult education benefits into new faith, but here I find this proposal very welcome and welcome. I have proposed a national strategy for continuous learning already in 2015, and I think it would be urgent to have it at the latest now that we have this parliamentary work under way. I consider its work very good at this point. The aim of the proposal is to promote the possibility for workers to work together and to study in such a way that adult education support helps the economy at the same time. These low-skilled men, who, fortunately, have already emerged in this debate, have been particularly lacking in support. The proposal therefore aims to improve the opportunities for continuous learning for employees of working age. It is extremely important for labour productivity and the well-being of people that employees can now improve their labour market position by training and acquiring more skills alongside work. That is the point of this performance. As working life continues to change at an increasing pace, the development of our own skills will be emphasised. In view of this, I consider this eight-year job history requirement over a long period of time, and I would like it to be re-examined in this proposal in a few years at the latest. The tempo of updating skills is quite fast during this period, and eight years may be too long for this update. The committee has also stated that this reform is likely to reduce the opportunities for full-time learning in adult education. It is therefore important that the effects of the reform on both full-time and part-time learning are closely monitored in order to assess whether people's rights will continue to be well trained and whether this will contribute to this use of adult education in the groups that we particularly want to encourage to update their skills. I think this is a good performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u68	Mr President! I would like to present the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media here, and there are different time limits for that. Thank you to the chairman of the committee. In short, I will give you this opinion from our committee, which was very consistent and supportive of your work. The Education Committee supports the government proposal before us. Continuous changes in working life require updating and modernising the skills needed at work to develop services, improve productivity and ensure employment. The Committee stresses that, from the point of view of labour market change, those most in need of training are now under-represented in terms of the use of benefits. It has been considered important in the expert consultation that the issues of the implementation and financing of continuous learning should be resolved as a whole and that the legislation on adult education should not be amended as an individual matter before the overall reform. It has also been estimated that the proposed reform can lead to a reduction in the supply of short and fast training programmes that are more effective for the labour market and even to an artificial prolongation of training programmes, which is not desirable for the whole. As regards the promotion of continuous learning, it is particularly desirable that the provision of short-term, effective skills development services should be increased and that the working-age population should be able to make flexible use of them. The Education Committee estimates that the adoption of the Government's proposal will improve the opportunities for competence development in the course of the work and that the proposal is a well-founded measure at this stage in the context of the renewal of continuous learning, although we stressed that it should be considered as a whole. The Committee stresses the need to re-evaluate adult education benefits as a whole, at the latest as the reform of continuing learning progresses to the stage of implementation. The consultation has also reminded us of the need for reform of the study leave law. That's 1979, and I'm sure you'll need some reform. Of the target groups for adult education and training aid, we have written in an opinion, but I would just like to say that the Committee on Education and Rural Development notes that, according to the study received, adult education aid does not target the sectors at risk of structural change, for example, and it does not seem to be sufficiently conducive to combining work and study. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs supports the proposed reform to encourage low-skilled people and/or low-paid people to study during their careers. And just a few more words: the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers it very important that people with the least motivation for further training should also be provided with low-threshold flexible training services to increase their skills. Training can be used to reduce exclusion and at the same time improve the overall management of your life. With regard to the amount of support, we note that the Committee on Education and Rural Development attaches great importance to monitoring closely the impact of changes affecting the number of jobs on both full-time and part-time studies, in order to ensure a more equal and effective use of the benefit in line with the objectives of the proposal. Just a moment to finish with the comments: According to Article 5 of the Adult Education Benefits Act, the granting of adult education for employees requires, inter alia, that the person has at least eight years of working time in accordance with Article 7 of the Act by the beginning of the grant period. The expert consultation has highlighted the continuing pace of change in working life. This is expected to mean that the requirements for the development of individual skills will also increase and speed up. In view of this trend, the Committee on Education and Rural Development proposes that consideration be given to the appropriateness of the eight-year duration of the employment history requirement referred to in the provision. In principle, a very positive thing, but we would like to stress that in the larger reform to which Mr Kinnunen referred, this too must be seen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u69	I have just made a presentation in the role of chairman of the committee, now Mr Kontula says in his own name a few more remarks. Adult education is particularly close to my heart today because during this plenary session I received a text message that my daughter has been admitted to university to study adult education. He will start his studies in the autumn of 20, likely to graduate at the earliest in the spring of 26. What kind of a world does he prepare for? For Finland, the talent reserve has long been our most important resource. That's all we've got. That is why I see that in the future, when, with digitalisation in most sectors and in most of the skills, the cost of providing education is drastically reduced — digitalisation allows the cost of education to be reduced to zero — we are no longer in a situation where we have to worry about the cost of education itself, because the fact that people are willing to study and study whatever form they are studying and in which they are studying is of greater benefit to the national economy than it is to the national economy. When we get into this arrangement it puts the question of livelihoods differently, because of course people must eat and pay their rent while they continue to study, even though the study itself is almost free in the future. As far as I am concerned, we will not be able to cope with this challenge unless it is based on thinking that when people are not at work or in the language of death, people are studying something. Not by force, but by making it so easy and possible and close to everyone that everyone wants to do it, and it's so normal that everyone can do it that it's the same way that people ask you what kind of exercise you do, so many Finns, a fair majority, can tell you that I visit the woods once a week with a spouse or whatever the hobby is. Studying is no longer something that is done by trained people or by people of a certain age, but it is something that is done by everyone, or at least almost everything, in some form, and there are so many forms available that you can certainly find for everyone. In addition, work must be accompanied by sensible ways of studying and on a much wider scale than is currently the case. And yes, I think that even during my daughter's studies, the translators will also open global colleges to Finns in a different way than they do today. We're facing a huge change.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u70	Thank you. — Good luck to the daughter’s mother!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u71	Mr President! I myself have the floor, as chairman of the committee, now also as a former adult education director, and there is Mäkisalo-Ropponen, with whom we have both been in adult education very much. I would also like to congratulate Mr Kontula on his fine achievement and also on his daughter, of course, and, of course, at the time of its completion, we will congratulate him next time, will we not? But all in all, about this adult education: There was a time when there was a debate about how much adult education is needed. Fortunately, it has now been noticed, because when you think about it, it really is, as representatives Kontula and Mäkisalo-Ropponen have pointed out here how important it is that human capital and this kind of education and knowledge are. In fact, it is the foundation of the survival of Finland as a whole, as is the survival of man in the life he lives. That is why, when working life changes so enormously, we need to constantly update that knowledge, and it is very important that our next innovation in education policy after primary school and compulsory education is a system of continuing education which is now being reformed in accordance with this government programme, and we, many of us, are allowed to be in that parliamentary group. That is where we have to think about who will organise, who will produce, who will pay, what is the share of ownership and so on. All of these must be considered, because the problem at the moment is that this is such a multi-channel funding system, and, for example, student social assistance does not necessarily support people going to study. Surely we also need to think about what the share of ownership in studying is. Of course, everyone goes for their own money. Then we must also assume that not everything can be taken from the employer — but then again, which is the share of the state. All of these must be considered so that it is clear that everyone knows who pays, who works what, and then, of course, how we can motivate precisely the people most in need of this continuous training. Learn the age of all. It is very good that Finland is a country of education and education, and we also need education, not just knowledge, because education is the foundation of knowledge. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u72	Mr President! Mr Risiko's speech brought to mind this importance of adult education and adult education, and that is what I would like to emphasise. I am very pleased that Mr Kontula's daughter is now studying adult education. I have been a little concerned about the role of adult education in society at the moment. When I have followed changes in, for example, vocational education and training and reform, this role of adult education has somehow diminished and narrowed, and yet it would be extremely important for there to be experts and experts in adult education to be trained also in those people of middle age who may have less motivation, less ability to study and less ability to study there in the school world at the moment. And when I have also had much to do with the long - term unemployed and their education is close to my heart, as I follow that work, I have seen the importance of the trainer’s ability to be alongside me as a traveler. Being a traveler alongside an adult again requires a very different kind of knowledge and skill, and it is not available there in class teacher training or regular education lectures. It requires some very specific knowledge and skills. I really hope that in this Chamber, too, such a desire and desire will rise to its own important value in adult education and adult education as an area of its own, alongside its normal or ordinary education, and there is a slight lack of understanding in society at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u73	Mr President! I fully agree with what Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said. That, of course, I could have come to you in private, but I would like to tell everyone. When it came to thinking about putting these training programmes together — that is, young people and adults — I definitely disagreed, because I myself have been the adult education director and know what it is, and when you think about that way of learning for adults and young people, that is a completely different matter. I remember back then when it was said that when there is pedagogy, then there is andragogy, i.e. learning adults, and then there is gerogics, some people went like laughing, saying hello, that you don't need that kind of pedagogy to be enough. — No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There are also individual differences, one learns by reading one by doing the other. But it is precisely the orientation of the adult and the realization that his life situation may change in seconds; there may be difficulties in family life, there may be a terrible lack of money, and so on. They are different problems that young people have, even though they also have a variety of individual problems. And the fact that you, from the middle of working life, from the middle of that family, are going to study — or even if you are a completely independent lonely person, therefore, living alone, still reconciling its study and all in all. We could definitely set up a pro-adult training group here. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u74	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, TyVM 8/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u75	Mr President! The proposal makes the necessary amendments to the EU Data Protection Regulation, in particular to the customer information systems of the TE Offices. The committee supports the proposal with minor changes. Firstly, the committee states that this change is largely a matter of establishing the facts. The Employment and Economic Development Offices and the KEHA Centre are defined as joint registers. In practice, the KEHA Centre has been carrying out these tasks for a long time, even though it has not been mentioned in the law. The committee amended the articles to the extent that it increased the margin for discretion in the removal of the right of use rule and made minor incisions to Article 9 because of coherence, mainly due to technical changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u76	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for your presentation. It is an undisputed government proposal and, as the President said, it is a question of bringing the customer information systems of the TE Offices to the level required by the EU Data Protection Regulation. But I remember that during the referral debate, when we were talking about this issue, there was also, could you say, these practical situations? Now that we are investing a great deal in the fact that, perhaps next autumn — a little different information from the government’s side — these municipal employment experiments and similar ones will be able to start off more quickly, I have heard from the local authorities that they are not actually informed of the unemployed in their own municipality, who would like to receive a different course or special information sessions or the like, and I hope that if the chairman of the committee can comment on whether there was any debate on this type of issue in that committee hearing. This is a real and real concern, which is currently at the municipal level, because the municipalities will then pay these so-called Kela fines for their long-term unemployed, and they would really like to organise different types of targeted recryms fairs and similar types, but will not receive the information they need from the TE Centres.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u77	Mr President! In fact, I would have sidelined a little like Mr Essayah just now on your page, and I can repeat his question. In my own municipality of North Karelia there has been a struggle with these same things, and this difficulty in the flow of information has come before many times when there have been good ideas on how to improve this point. In fact, more generally, the flow of public sector information is something we should probably focus on. However, the public sector can also contribute to the emergence of innovations, and if we could continue to open these data reserves a little more openly, then perhaps new entrepreneurship paths could also be created there. For example, the Centre considers that all data collected by the public sector should in principle be opened unless there is a data protection barrier or business secrets that prevent this from being opened. Open interfaces ensure that information flows between different stakeholders, i.e. increase competition and improve services. In fact, overall, the procurement of IT systems should ensure the compatibility of the public sector systems, competition between operators and, where appropriate, the possibility of switching operators and suppliers. So if things don't work out, then it would also be easier to change such an operator and supplier with their systems that know what they're doing. We are also going to have a regional and social reform and, when it is implemented, special attention should be paid to the flow of information, and common data models and open interfaces must be required. Open interfaces may not always be created by themselves or by standardisation, but a dominant undertaking may even tend to try to reduce competition, and that is certainly not in anyone's interest. We have examples, for example, that the European Commission has recently imposed a record fine on Google for abuse of a dominant position. We probably do not want similar examples of multinational companies in Finland. But I would really like to have an answer to this first question, which was asked by Mrs Essayah, on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u78	Mr President! I will answer Mr Essayah's questions. It is precisely this proposal that has not been the subject of a debate on the rights of the municipalities to information, but it has been going on for a long time and in depth throughout the political career that I remember. According to the current constitutional interpretation, unemployment is considered to be sensitive information that cannot be passed on to anyone just like that. In addition to this, these registers contain much more information at the heart of privacy that cannot be distributed on a very light basis. For example, there is information about health, family relationships and so on. That is why I understand the great concern and concern about the data protection of the unemployed, even when we have only reached the minimum level of the law in our register about a year ago after a long pushover. Until then, we had an illegal situation, particularly with regard to data protection and registration systems for the unemployed. I see that the problems that municipalities have to learn about unemployed people are linked to a civil service culture that seeks to pass people by. When you have that person involved in the conversation and taking the matter forward, you can ask the person whether your information can be given to and given to all. And if that person wants to give his private information, then he will. It's nothing more than that. Most people would love to give you that information. But if you want to talk past a person, if you want to communicate to an official and send the unemployed person only those letters to the address, as our system largely works, then it really can be a problem, not so much in relation to these registrations — yes, you can report them in the county paper and put a notice on the workspace wall and ask the TE Office officials to put a message in the systems — but in services that are more clearly targeted at the unemployed person. I see that the problem here is not that the unemployed have too good data protection — we are, for the first time in a long time, in a situation where the unemployed even have legal data protection — but that our system does not leave the person who is the object of the measures, but is trying to get past that person. This is a much bigger question than the information system issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u79	Mr President! I can see that Mr. Kontula and I are looking at this from a slightly different perspective. Of course, the data protection of every person is important if it involves a wide range of issues such as health and the like, but at least I recognized Mr Huttunen's view that small municipalities want to meet these people, personally and they want to make tailor-made plans, they want to be right there at the level of the person, but it seems that in Finland they would prefer a kind of approach to filling out different applications and forms online, not really contacting the person. If you think of the much discussed transfer of income support to Kela, someone may see that it is great not to have to meet any social worker or open up any of their life situations, when you fill out a form online, the money comes to the account, but I do see it as a really cold attitude that a person in that situation in life would probably need to ask you what you really need, how you could help and how you could, could say, approach many problems. If you compare with Sweden, there is clearly a plan for every unemployed person to what is the most difficult thing in his life. If you think of an unemployed person with substance abuse problems in Sweden, such a person will be directed to treatment and tried to provide all possible support. In Finland, a person with a substance abuse problem falls into more money for income support through a search for Kela's income support, but in fact no person is interested in how to control the substance abuse problem that dominates the life of this person. Yes, in such a certain way, could I say, in going behind the systems, I see such coldness and perhaps I see this a bit like a different vision. I believe that we both have good will for these long-term unemployed, but perhaps a little different in terms of vision we are approaching this issue of data protection. Small municipalities are actually concerned about every citizen in the municipality, and they are known for them, and they would certainly want every individual to help, not facelessly, but personally.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u80	Mr President! I do not really see this as a big problem in small municipalities, where everyone knows each other's affairs so well that if someone is going to be unemployed for a long time, then the word went out there in the local K-store, but in the big municipalities at the moment the situation is that — and I know this when I constantly try to get those services — that there is no way to talk to an adult social worker. You can't, even if you're praying, you can't, no matter what life situation you're in. I myself have tried to make appointments on the phone, and it is simply said that ‘it was not going to be until 18 months ago’. You have to wait at least six months before you can talk about things again. And as far as substance abuse problems are concerned, Sweden does not deal with them because they have different data protection, but because they have care facilities and people have access to them. There's a downtown of Tampere full of young people who need treatment right now, and they can't get there. Many of them have prayed on numerous occasions at various doors to get treatment and not get treatment. In this situation, focusing on something that human rights, fundamental rights such as data protection, should be undermined by the fact that these people are being reached, I do not understand this world. When I enter the railway station in Tampere, I see so many people who should help me, that I don't have to go to the register to see where someone can help me now. How on earth can these people be invisible to someone?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u81	Mr President! Outokumpu as a locality is not quite small, but it is not very big, and this problem is quite clear there: we have a huge amount of structural unemployment. We have an old industrial city and we have more than one generation of unemployment at that time. There is a sincere desire to build that new path for everyone, but we have a clear problem that when we have a city as one of the great employers and then we have people from the TE Office and from various organisations separately, this flow of information between these different organisations is really challenging because of these data protection regulations. We probably do not have the will to go out and pry into the affairs of any individual or that another municipal citizen would like to know what the employment situation of another municipality is, but that this chain should genuinely work and know between these different organisations that together we could better help these people on a new path. Indeed, it is the unemployment in several generations, and we would like to break the chain in good faith, but that is where these data protection issues really come in.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u82	Yes, it's called detective social work — let's get out of there by the computer and ring the doorbell and ask what's going on here, whether we need help here, whether you want coffee. It has been done successfully in the history of social work since at least the 19th century and has produced good results. It has just been forgotten in the meantime when we have moved on to such a civil servant-centred system. In Tampere I even know that one social worker was expelled because he went without permission to visit a customer when the client had a panic disorder, and he did not dare to go from his home to the office to see a social worker — when he was not allowed to leave behind the table. When the problem is not whether the authorities are talking to each other, but that they are not having a conversation with those people — they are not having a conversation with them. That is why it is the wrong way to put it right if the agencies are to have a better discussion with each other. It won't get us there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u83	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 9/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u84	Mr President! The proposal introduces amendments to national legislation required by the International Labour Organisation Maritime Labour Convention. In particular, the most important change there is to secure the employment and remuneration of an employee imprisoned in connection with piracy or armed robbery, including during imprisonment. In addition, some minor changes will be made. The committee supports the proposals as unaltered and notes that they are necessary and important. You gotta get paid even when you're trapped in piracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-26-ps-80.u85	Mr President! I remember that, at the time of the referral, some afternoon newspaper was flouting with this bill, but just as Mr Kontula said, it is quite clear that we are putting the ILO agreement into our legislation. Indeed, we hope that the Finnish people will not be faced with this state of affairs and, in that sense, there is no need to use this provision, but it must, of course, be in our legislation, and this, as Mr Kontula said, covers not only piracy but also, for example, the seizure of armed vessels, which is also taking place in international waters.
