ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-08-ps-70.u1	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 4. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the UaVM 1/2020 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading on the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-08-ps-70.u2	Mr President! In order to ensure that this meeting does not end in just a minute and when people come from there, let us take the floor to support this unanimous motion by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on this technology centre, which is coming here by the UN. There are many important points here. First of all, the fact that the UN system is gradually being settled here in Finland, starting with the Wider Institute, which was established in the 1980s, i.e. under the auspices of the University of Development Economics Research Institute, then at a later stage this UNOPS Institute and now this technology laboratory. With regard to this technology laboratory, innovation issues are at the heart of the agenda, and I would like to emphasise that the aim is not only to develop so-called traditional technological innovations, but also to talk about social innovations, which is important to take into account here. The main priorities are the same main priorities that are characteristic of Finland’s development cooperation, namely sustainable development, climate change, issues of war and peace and education, and in that respect it is justified that, when the focus is on these social innovations, development funding in these areas can also be used in this context. These individual small UN institutions also have synergies with each other. They are linked to innovation and research, and in that sense they can rely on one another so that a small section of UN institutions is now created with this modern technology development activity, and this is important to be taken into account. However, these institutions are not yet making Finland the capital of the international UN system, even a major player in Europe. Yes, Geneva, Vienna, Copenhagen, Paris and Rome are still more central players in the UN system than Finland, but gradually Finland is now gaining ground through these international organisations, and in that sense this is an important reform.
