ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u2	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u3	Mr President! In Finland, youth and gang violence caused by immigration detrimental to the economy and security of our society is becoming more common. This has happened in all countries where a similar immigration policy is being pursued, such as Sweden. According to official sources, as many as 100 to 150 dangerous young people travel in Helsinki. They're willing to use even brutal violence at random. According to the police, a large proportion of these young people are persons of foreign origin from the Middle East and Somalia. Mr Government, Minister of the Interior, you have explained the development of exclusion and the need to integrate better and even with the interest rate. It's proven that this kind of impalement will only make it worse. How do you intend to tackle the right problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u4	Mr President! Thank you for the question. It is quite clear that every single act of violence is serious and totally reprehensible. I'm sure it's a shared idea for all of us here together. Well, according to the police — while I am happy to listen to experts in my work, I think that the police are certainly the biggest expert in this field — here the main reason is that people are left out, excluded, inequalities have grown, young people have problems with substance abuse and mental health. That's what the police say. Once again, I hope that the police will also be seen as an authority in this debate. Of course, in the big picture it is important to note that crime has fallen in the longer term. The year of interest has produced more acts of violence, very serious crimes, not only in young people but also in the wider population. That is something we must tackle together, and we have already intervened. We have increased police resources, we have increased resources for training at all levels to keep every young person involved. We will ensure that cooperation between the various authorities is carried out everywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u5	At this stage, I would like to inform the House that a large number of questions have been raised on this same subject in various groups on gang violence, juvenile delinquency, child protection and custody, so this Question Time will focus very much on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u6	Mr President! Finland stands in the way of Sweden, and the development follows a familiar pattern. Year after year, migrant crime is increasing, and each time the same fine words are explained and the same mistakes repeated. The following year, another round. Wake up, it's already five o'clock. Minister Ohio rushed to update Facebook to a long section of young people’s problems when information about the violent gangs in Helsinki became available. In a word, he didn't mention gangs made up of immigrants. In an interview with Yle, however, the minister was forced to admit yesterday morning that statistics show that immigrants are usually over-represented in certain crimes. So you know, and you are forced to admit, the problem of immigration, but you are not doing anything about it. Why not? Why do you refuse to interfere with the harmful?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u7	Mr President! Once the Finns have been in the government,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u8	Mr President! Integration of migrants from Africa and the Middle East has failed in all Western countries. Gangification, exclusion and over-representation in crime statistics are neither a new phenomenon nor a special phenomenon in Finland. The Minister of the Interior assures us that the situation is better for us than for Sweden. Of course it is better because we have smaller problem groups than Sweden. But they're getting bigger and bigger. We are where Sweden was 15 years ago. Sweden is now where we will be in 15 years' time. We have been repeating for decades that the mistakes made by Sweden must and can be avoided by integration. Still, the results are just as bad for us. What are those corrective measures? Why are they not introduced, or if they are in use, why are they not producing results?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u9	Mr President! Let me return to the point of view of the police, which I personally consider to be an expert in this debate, among other things. The police say that there is exclusion and inequality here, and this often leads to crime. This is what the government will do all it can to prevent in all sectors, so that exclusion does not increase in this society. One of the key ways to prevent crime and people’s nausea is to make a confusing housing policy: to build housing so that different people live in different areas and people meet each other every day. The Finns Party has most recently opposed this in Helsinki and did not participate in the housing and land use programme,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u10	Congressman S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u11	Mr President! There's a huge crisis in Child Services. The Child Welfare Act does not guarantee, for example, that violent young people can be helped in school homes. In Valllila, a 16-year-old school runaway recently stabbed a young person to death. The purpose of the law is to protect children. However, the emphasis on the right of the child to self-determination beyond other fundamental rights is contradictory in the interests of the child. This development has been going on for a long time. Children need boundaries and love, a safe environment for growth. In practice, professionals do not have the power to set limits or rules for children who have been taken into custody. That, too, is not in the best interests of the child. Escapes have increased considerably, drug abuse has exploded, violence and other problems have increased significantly. So I ask the government whether you are making changes to the Child Welfare Act to solve these problems and to support the work of child welfare professionals? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u12	Mr President! Yes, we have serious problems with child protection. The representative is quite right that, not only during this term of government, but also during the previous term of government, it has been awakened that, from the point of view of child protection, we must be able to change the content of child protection and its structures. We are also faced with the fact that child welfare has also been partly and exclusively managed by the market in relation to these places. We will have to stick to responsibility here too, and in that respect, the development of demanding foster care is one of the most important means of success for the future. I cannot yet say what it contains, but the working group has already made its proposal, and it must also be possible to move these structures. The representative points out that, with regard to children, we have long since made the decision that we are treating children who are experiencing symptoms.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u13	Mr President! Social change is always the first thing to be seen in children. I myself have experienced this countless times in police work, and I have been running long enough for school runaways. The problems of child welfare have been discussed for a long time. This is not just for the moment. In the midst of the interest-rate crisis, there is a risk that the situation will deteriorate further. This year, minors have committed exceptionally serious crimes. This year, there have already been 43 homicides, which normally occur between 9 and 16 years. There have also been a considerable number of serious situations of violence in schools. It could get a lot worse. So I ask the government: how do you intend to ensure that the corona crisis does not worsen the already difficult situation in the services of child protection? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u14	Mr President! Yes, it is true that homes are also starting to experience a prolonged corona crisis, and in that respect the increase in child protection declarations is partly explained by it, but the fact is that when we look at statistics, last year, for 2019, the change to 2018 was a 7% increase, so that does not explain the problem as a whole. As a result of the interest-rate crisis, action has been taken to ensure that the budget is now committed to eliminating both the need for services, i.e. the service debt, and also the care debt. In this regard, we often think that this medical debt is surgery and measures in special care, but it is also in basic health care and social services that we should have been able to do better there too, and this service deficit is also evident in the area of child protection. I think it's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u15	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u16	Mr President! Among young offenders, there is a worrying number of young people under the age of 15 who are not responsible in criminal matters, and this limit is even being exploited so that older young people may be tempted to become unpunished young people. For example, in this case of Vallila, there was one 14-year-old person involved in a homicide, and the police reported that he could be held in custody for a maximum of 24 hours. The police have also asked such a question that it could be a place for legislative reflection as to whether there should be tougher means for such serious crimes to even isolate and totally break the cycle of minors. It is also, of course, a matter for child welfare to develop the means by which:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u17	Mr President! Let us discuss a very serious and important issue, and it is good to bear in mind that when a child and a young person start committing crimes they have also failed in this preventive work. It is the question of what we should really discuss — why this is happening, what has happened in the life of this child and young person before he has committed these crimes — and then it must be stopped. At this point, I would also like to say that we are currently in the process of a crime prevention project in the Ministry of Justice, in accordance with the Government Programme, aimed at supporting a comprehensive and multi-professional approach for young people to raise the individual out of this difficult situation. These piloting sites are currently in Oulu,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u18	Let me remind you again of the one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u19	Madam President! According to the police, there is also the phenomenon of these crimes among young people that they are very strongly linked to drug trafficking and drug use, and these latest wastewater studies by the National Institute for Health and Welfare indicate that drug use continues to grow. For example, amphetamine is now being used more than ever before. In this fight against drugs, it is also very much a question of attitudes for young people, and I think that it will not help if there are messages from the Government that even want to legalise possession of drugs. I therefore ask you, Mr Government, how you are now going to tackle this serious drug problem, because it is also effective prevention of juvenile delinquency.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u20	Mr President! I believe that the majority of people in this Chamber view drugs in such a way that we are all in favour of treatment. We want people to be admitted to treatment if people are using drugs. Isn't that right? Often, the use of drugs is also strongly associated with mental health problems. Therefore, there should be as much mental health and substance abuse services as possible and widely in society as possible. This is what the government will invest in. Then what do we do with the big drug deal that's rampant? Interestingly, in this corona age, when people have not moved across borders, more drugs have been added to the cargo in this country. We need to step up cooperation between the police, Customs and Raja. This is what we are discussing, how better we could, through closer cooperation between these authorities and better resources, catch up with the big players who are spreading drugs. This combination is the one that will enable us to intervene in this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u21	Mr President! Indeed, this gangging and violence among young people is an extremely serious phenomenon that must be addressed. People are worried, they are frightened by the example of Sweden. Now, if resolutely intervened, we can prevent this situation from getting worse. But what do you want me to do? What should be done is to set limits, clear limits, and help. Adding resources to the police is an excellent start, but there must be tools, tools, tools, both to set borders and to help. There has been a call for the introduction of so-called detention, that is to say, minors who are in a spiral of crime could be taken into custody in a form such as detention, which would help them to get away from the cycle, so that they could be personally helped in the situation in which they are and put a stop to this criminal road.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u22	Mr President! It is very good that this issue is being discussed and presented with different options for action. I would like to highlight the importance of child protection and the fact that we will have even more effective child protection. It may sound good to start solving this problem in a way through this detention, but I am not convinced that it is also a measure in line with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. That's what I should be looking into. This issue has not been raised in the government debate. Instead, we have had in the debate the fact that this ganging and violence is being taken very seriously and is being tackled. This requires a number of measures, involving both social workers and the school world.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u23	Mr President! This phenomenon must be taken very seriously. We do not want gangs in Finland, young people resort to acts of violence, there are phenomena in society, insecurity and some people feel that the street is not a safe place for all of us. And we have to ask what causes the lack of participation and numbness in such a way that it can even lead to the shocking acts of violence that we have now seen and read about. Young people need a safe home. They need education and opportunities, and they need healthy activities, such as hobbies and the friendships they bring — that is, healthy activities away from unhealthy conduct. Young people and families also need help when help is needed and help is provided in time so that problems do not escalate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u25	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u26	Mr President, ärade talman! Without language skills, it is hopeless to go to school and study and get to work. The commitment of immigrants' descendants to Finnish society must start from day-care centres, and the country must learn to live the way it does. The extension of compulsory education and the adornment of unemployment statistics are not helping here. What is the government going to do to prevent us from creating a parallel society and thereby increasing ethnic gangs on the streets of the city?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u27	Mr President! Here the representative mentioned a safe environment for growth, and that is perhaps the most essential thing if we are to consider the prevention of these serious cases. Just as Mr Harkimo pointed out, from the point of view of prevention, early childhood education and schools are the most important operating environment when it comes to children and young people. This government has launched a EUR 350 million project to strengthen quality and equality in early childhood education and basic education. In other words, this money will be allocated to the field of education in the form of funding for equality, which means that day-care centres and schools located in regions where, for example, unemployment is higher than average, education levels are lower and foreign language levels are also available to provide additional resources for the recruitment of adults, so that we can ensure that there is sufficient linguistic and other learning conditions for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u28	Mr President! The situation must be taken very seriously. Violent behaviour and gangbanging among young people must be addressed so as not to repeat the mistakes made in neighbouring Sweden. Support and guidance for immigrant young people is left behind if parents are not integrated into Finnish society or speak Finnish. Language skills are the key to education and access to Finnish working life and must therefore be given greater emphasis, because if a person does not speak Finnish, he or she will remain unhelpably excluded from society and then all kinds of mild phenomena will increase. We have been talking about these gangbangs in public, and I regard this as a very negative phenomenon for Finnish society and I ask the government: how do you intend to tackle this gangbang of young people?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u29	Mr President! A very good speech on the fact that language is indeed the key to integration. In order to become part of this society, a meaningful member of this society, language skills are needed. As early as this year, more than 80 additional staff years were allowed for by the police, and there have also been dozens of deadlines. As early as this year, particular efforts have been made to combat crime against children and young people, crime, prevention and, in particular, multi-public cooperation, this preventive, preventive action. So the government has now been able to repair police resources. A concrete example of this is the Ankkuri activity, which I always raise here, because the example in Helsinki last year was a thousand young people in Ankkuri activities. It has proved that 75% of these young people have abandoned criminal activity. A very concrete example of what school cooperation, police cooperation, social work, psychiatric nurses as part of this whole can mean in this society. This works, this is where you should invest more money,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u30	Mr President! As Minister for Youth, I think it is important that this serious and topical debate also has a strong focus on prevention. These young people, whom we are now talking about as a serious phenomenon, are the children of some. Some of them are their parents, and I'm sure they're just as worried as we are. It is important that we understand prevention and the well-being of young people much more than concerns about who will end up in detention and what kind of penalties will be in place. It is the management of the consequences, which are well discussed, but it is also worth considering how we could strengthen the support of parenthood in society, how we could also help families whose starting points are weak for one reason or another, because of language skills or livelihood. I would also like to highlight the importance of youth work. This government has made additional investments in youth work that is certainly successful among those who are lost, and we must find them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u31	Mr President! Different authorities in Finland and police authorities Since Sweden for many years, Finland should not repeat the mistakes made in Sweden. Yet Finland is manically repeating the same things as Sweden and is heading towards grenade attacks and shootings and no-go areas. When Halla-aho, Chairman of the Finns Party raised the problem yesterday at the City Council in Helsinki, Minister Ohio went to emotions and Twitter sang. In his view, Finland's drift towards Sweden is simply not true and it is racism to say it out loud. In social media, in particular, my attention was drawn to the joke of the very visible green players on what is meant by "Swedish road". I ask you now, Mr Government: do you think this development is a laughing matter? When you laugh at the situation, you also laugh at the victims of robbery and violence. Is there no reason to apologize and promise in particular?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u32	Mr President! As I said before, the police see exclusion and inequality behind this phenomenon. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u33	Mr President! It should be the case that the vast majority of the Finnish people and this Chamber believe that this important issue is both—and not just—or-or-questioning. Soft means are needed, perhaps the most important of which is the creation of low-threshold jobs. The fact that parents are at work is certainly an important guarantee that we will learn the language. The fact that young people quickly get to work, legal jobs, is also a key remedy for preventing this. We have recipes in the assembly, and hopefully they will be discussed this autumn. But there is also a need for solutions to this acute issue there in the field. Together we have strengthened the Ankkuri work in the police, we have employed about 50 suburban police officers at the end of the last parliamentary term, but they do not have the necessary tools. In accordance with its nature, the Ministry of Justice emphasises fundamental rights issues, as it should be. The Home Office should look at solutions to problems on the street. I would now like to ask the Minister of the Interior, Mr Ohio, whether you can promote the fact that the police:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u34	Mr President! The Minister of Justice has answered these questions because the criminal law belongs to his property — I am sure you know very well as the former Minister for the Interior. Of course, professionals are constantly developing their practices in order to best respond to the phenomena of time. From this point of view, we have not considered any updates to the criminal code, but we hear with an accurate ear what the new needs of professionals are. Organisations in Helsinki, for example, are doing a very important job in ensuring that information flows between different authorities in multi-authority cooperation. What is also central to this is that we do not allow the boundaries of government to prevent people from being able to talk about their data if there are threatening situations. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health have discussed this together. We need a lot of ways. As I said, everything starts with prevention: what happens in early childhood education, education, access to social and health services. And that Ankkuri action is a concrete example of how it has been successful. We're coming for more money.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u35	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u36	Madam President! These many dangerous youth groups in Helsinki, where substance abuse, violence and other crime are common, have been reported, and the proportion of people with foreign background is also significant. The police, however, have described these gangs as more of a group of friends than gangs. However, there is a fear that the permanent exclusion of young people, vandalism and the adoption and radicalisation of a criminal lifestyle will become permanent. This is not a new phenomenon, but the trend is worrying. The threat is the widening of the problem and the weakening of Finland’s internal security. I would ask the minister concerned: how does the government intend to tackle this dangerous development, to respond to disturbances in order and to prevent the exclusion and radicalisation of young people?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u37	Mr President! Thank you for the question. Even if I may now repeat myself, I still say that it matters how this Chamber also discusses these young people. Do we appreciate every young person as they are? Do we always provide them with timely, real-time services when they need them? In Helsinki, some of these young people have the background — perhaps parents are from abroad — but these young people may have been born in Finland, lived their whole lives in this society as Finnish citizens and may still be called foreigners. This is one example of how we have not been able to involve them in this society. Many young people suffer very much from being pushed aside more and more, not being seen as full citizens in this society. And it is sad what language is used in this hall or in the world of Twitter between these young people,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u38	Mr President! The Minister of the Interior avoids the problem of immigration by claiming that it is only an issue of exclusion. I wonder, however, that if the most equal and generous welfare societies in the world — Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark — are unable to remedy these problems, what kind of country and what resources do you think you are doing so? You also repeat that Finland is not in the way of Sweden. However, I have not noticed that you have ever even admitted that Sweden has failed in its immigration policy. On the contrary, you are in favour of an even more liberal immigration policy than Sweden is now. So I ask you, Minister of the Interior: do you think that the Swedish immigration policy, which has been open for years, has failed or has not? If so, why do you want to drive the same thing to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u39	Mr President! As I said, of course Finland is looking at the development that is taking place in other countries, in relation to all crime. We follow the research data, we follow the experts' data. It is not up to the Finnish Government to condemn or comment on other governments' policies. The key is what this government has done, what we are doing here now. We have invested in affordable housing, which will prevent the inequalities in the regions. We have invested in child protection, social work, education and police. These are all efforts to ensure that crime does not exist in this society. And it is quite clear that some of these young people, as has been said in public, are Finns and there are non-Finnishs. There may be people there who in many generations have been isolated in one way or another in this society. This is about how these people are involved in this society. There's no point in doing it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u40	Mr President! The Minister for the Interior has now said twice that the most effective way to prevent exclusion is to engage in social confusion, i.e. to colonise immigrants with taxpayers' money in expensive residential areas. Minister Ohio, this is what Helsinki has been doing for years. However, Finland is one of the biggest failures of the OECD in integration, along with Sweden. Yet schools and residential areas are differentiated. Yet the employment rate of immigrants is poor. Yet more than half of the income support customers in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area are immigrants. Are you going to tell me how the effectiveness of social confusion can be seen? Or is it that, although it has not worked with a small immigrant population, it will start to work as long as the immigrant population grows sufficiently large?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u41	Mr President! Minister Tuula Haatainen is not here, integration issues fall under him, but I can certainly answer this question from the point of view of what is linked to how crime is prevented, for example. I have now told you quite a number of times what we need here to ensure that people are better involved in this society. This requires, for example, affordable housing production across society, so that even the lowest-incomed people can live. I am a little concerned that in time the Finns were still being spoken of as a party for a small person. It doesn't seem to be anymore. They're not good enough for affordable housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u42	Representative Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u43	Mr President! Young people’s nausea can be prevented and must be prevented. The Committee on Audit, which I chair, is just starting a study on the best ways of preventing social exclusion among young people, and we are also doing a study on the monitoring and quality of child protection services. Child welfare is a very important element in this debate, because child welfare is, however, catching up with young people for whom, for example, student care services are not enough. I therefore attach great importance to the inclusion in the Government Programme of reducing the number of clients of child protection workers so that they can focus more on the problems faced by an individual young person. The corona crisis has increased mental health problems and it is very regrettable that the corona crisis has also increased the mental health challenges of young people in particular. I'll ask you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u44	Mr President! If we had to shield the problems of child welfare today to two, I would say that the representative is quite right that children in foster care should be treated well and taken care of, and we have not succeeded in all this. This is a genuine fact, and in practice a survey of school health care shows how many children have faced such insecurity and treatment that is unacceptable under the rule of law. On the other hand, at the same time, it must be said that children in foster care must be provided with support and services, and in this respect it is precisely where it needs to be done. And here again, unfortunately, as a society, we have not succeeded as well as we should have done, and that is what we have now drawn attention to during this term of government. The Government Programme took a line in which we aim to create mental health services and substance abuse services for children and young people
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u45	Indeed, I would like to point out to both ministers and representatives the one-minute limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u46	Mr President! If we really want effective solutions to this problem, then I would also raise the issue of improving the mental health services of children and young people to the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u49	Mr President! This is where we're going to heaven again when the milk's already on the ground. Another characteristic is that either the opposition or the previous government are being accused — it is not worth it, Minister Ohio. In 2017, an internal security strategy was published, and it was agreed together — the previous government — that the Ministry of Justice would catch up and make the approach for young people who are experiencing crimes. The team recruited the best experts in Finland, and it did good work, published its operating model at the beginning of 2019. Why, Minister Henriksson, are you not taking this forward? I have already said this in private to you before. Here's the key to how to take this forward, to catch those kids. None of the young people are born to be offenders, but that is what they become if they are not cared for.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u50	Mr President! Congressman Risikko is absolutely right. The previous government has done good things too, and together we are responsible for this overall situation. I believe that Mr Risikko also knows that the current government will do everything in its power to do so. As I said in my introductory remarks, the government has launched pilot projects such as this in Oulu, Rovaniemi, which are currently implementing what was being put on the table in the previous government: bringing in the operating models now, trying to find the means to bite the young people in their everyday lives who need special support so that they do not end up on the criminal road. And then, for the record, there is also the possibility of applying for state aid to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u51	Madam President! Juvenile violence and gangbanging are always serious phenomena. However, I would like to bring some perspective to this debate. These problems have been experienced in Finland: over 100 years ago, the Germans, in connection with the 70s and 80s, the diggers and punks,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u54	Mr President! I therefore believe that this speech was an important addition to the debate that we recognise that there are exceptional risk factors involved in the life stage of youth and that their identification in time can affect the young person in the direction of the rest of his life. In this respect, youth work, school from the path of early childhood education, employment and all this, above all, linked to the success of homes and the well-being of homes, will certainly play a key role when we talk about how young people will cope in their lives. And it may be that the answer to everything is not a public authority or a public authority, but with great joy I have noticed that, here too, for example, in the capital region, whose problems are being discussed in particular, there is a tremendous amount of wonderful organizational work, volunteers and civic activity, which, in practice, is probably largely based on profit, and it reaches young people much more from the level of the eyes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u55	Congressman Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u56	Mr President, värderade fru talman! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health today gave its opinion on next year's budget and raised concerns about the nausea of young people and the reduction in basic preventive services due to high interest rates. Local government finances have been tight for a long time, and municipalities have been forced to find savings targets, but now, during the corona period, the basic service staff have had to be transferred to corrosive testing and tracing. This has led to a reduction in support for families in many municipalities. Child health clinics, student care, mental health services and footing activities have been reduced. This, on the other hand, has put pressure on child welfare, which has already suffered from a chronic shortage of resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u57	Mr President! Mr Rehn-Kivi has certainly raised the most important issue in this debate. We cannot continue in the future by simply doing and concentrating on these corrective measures. If, in Finland, the line does not change for these children who are experiencing symptoms, in the future we will be doing preventive work, then none of this problem will be solved. I'm sorry to hear this. We must be able to intervene in the past before these problems escalate. And I like the actions that the government has now taken: there are not only funding but also new ways and means of working. The most important thing, in my opinion, is that children and young people should be able to answer the question that will be contacted if the child and the young person feel that they are being treated badly or that they are not feeling well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u58	Madam President! As has been shown here, the young people who are now talking often have mental problems. These should help them in time. This was the aim of the citizens' initiative on the so-called therapeutic guarantee that mental health organisations had taken off. It was left in Parliament about one year ago. It is known that representatives of the government parties in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have held back this citizens' initiative. Minister Kiuru, you have said that you are in favour of a therapeutic guarantee. Now I ask you, Minister Kiuru: could you kindly ask the representatives of the government in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to stop blocking this citizens' initiative?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u59	Mr President! Yes, the parliament is the host and the government is the servant. In that respect, as a servant, I will not go and ask the host to take action. The question is that, together in this Chamber, we have made a very strong commitment to tightening up the treatment guarantee. It's really important. It seems to me to be one of the biggest achievements of social and health policy if it is achieved together, and I must tell you that it is not as easy to go through as each of us had originally thought. But I personally am as ambitious as Mr Zyskowicz: it must be brought here and it must be obtained as soon as possible. What we did not know was that the corona crisis caused us not to have so many factors in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health that we could have carried it so ambitiously forward. And that treatment guarantee will come to this House for processing, and it will come in particular:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u61	Mr President! First of all, I would like to correct Mr Zyskowicz's claim that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has blocked this therapeutic guarantee. The committee has unanimously decided that this will be combined with future treatment guarantees and will be dealt with appropriately. I myself am in favour of that approach. There is no point in disseminating such information. Mr President! I would like to say on this subject itself that it is clear that although we know that immigration is not one of the biggest problems in Finland, it also involves mild phenomena and cannot be swept under the carpet or shushed. [AnttiCall]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u62	Mr President! I would also like to make an important contribution to the fact that the debate is now actually taking place in a phenomenon involving between 100 and 150 young people and, unfortunately, also the victims of this violent activity, for which I am deeply sorry about what has happened. However, the majority of Finnish young people, regardless of skin colour or country of origin, have a great situation and a good life ahead of them and things are good. Nor is it right that a person who has moved to or was born in this country so that his parents may have come from elsewhere should be labelled in the debate only through immigration. He's a lot more than that: he's a hobbyist, he's a student, he's someone's friend. And in this respect, it is a pleasure to note that the Government’s programme includes the Finnish model of ‘doing a hobby’,which has taken place in the pilot municipalities,such as each Finnish child youth receiving one free of charge in the school day.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u63	Mr President! Police Director Kolehmainen has already expressed concerns about Swedish-type development in 2019, before the corona. You, Minister Ohio, have, in my opinion, forgotten these comments that have already been made before the corona. It is also confused in this debate that if we do not want more harmful immigration, we must make decisions that we will not take more harmful immigration. The second question is that of disturbed people in the country. They should be subject to measures. Would you consider, for example, withdrawing or expelling residence permits for such persons? And whether you have been familiar with the opinion of the Audit Committee last season, for example, in Finnish
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u64	Mr President! First of all, the fact that, of course, criminals will be returned, but in this debate there has been talk of the nausea of young people, which is a hugely serious, widespread phenomenon that affects very much, very many people in this society. This debate has raised all the means that we have at our disposal, which we will strengthen as a government. It was very well said here by the former Minister for the Interior that no one will be born a criminal. It's a good thing to remember. Society has a huge impact on the life people grow in, if we invest and now invest in early childhood education, education, affordable housing, language training, all this, low-threshold mental health and substance abuse services. This will help people stay on this wheel. There are some examples in certain countries that some people have never been able to integrate into society. This government insists that Finland will continue to be
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u65	Madam President! Not all immigration is a problem. However, the immigration towards Europe comes in a triumphant way from regions where the prospects for integration of newcomers are rather poor in the light of statistics. Different European countries have applied different strategies on how this population would truly integrate and become part of European societies, but regardless of the strategies applied, the outcome has been very poor in all countries. We are facing the same problems in every single European country where the number of immigration from the troubled regions has become very high. Nor has Finnish confusing housing policy helped this. The only way that clearly works is that we consider immigration to be sufficiently limited from areas where the expected adaptation of visitors is poor when moving to Finland. ♪ When the government swears ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u66	Mr President! The European Commission has just presented its proposals on this common European immigration and asylum policy. The Commission, together with the Commission as a whole, recognises that immigration is a normal part of European life and that asylum can continue to be applied for in the European Union. Each application shall be handled in an appropriate process, in a process guaranteeing legal certainty, and individually. At European Union level, no one has wanted to give up this right to enter the European Union in this way. Above all, the Commissioners have been working together on the policy of making legal access to the European Union possible, instead of people having to come here by illegal means, as potential victims of trafficking by human smugglers. This Commission package is a good start for us to work together in the European Union on a better immigration and asylum policy, and that is what the government has done in the last few days.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u67	Mr President! The people are looking at this hall, and this hall should empower people with the idea that we know what we are doing and that we are trying to solve these problems well. And I sometimes feel that this Chamber cannot empower Finnish citizens in that desired and necessary way. However, I would like to give you one example of a situation which has given us good results in relation to these problems relating to immigrants. A project has been launched in Vantaa to invite parents to attend school. Parents have received better Finnish language and culture. They've been working at 80%. Their children who are in the same school have improved their way and grades, and society has received good taxpayers. How do we get more of these soft, good, solution-oriented tools, Minister Andersson?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u68	Mr President! This example from Vantaa, highlighted by the representative, is indeed an excellent and similar type of activity
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u71	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u72	Madam President! I wrote in my press release that ‘patofracture’ is the moment when the legislative initiatives taken I have the courage to criticise the way in which, in the context of the corona crisis, we did not take up in Parliament the legislative initiatives relating to the corona crisis and the measures that could... [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u75	Madam President! The Myllykoski bill, which strengthens Finnish entrepreneurship, work and locality, would allow small breweries to have a temporary right to sell at a distance. As we have just heard, the legislative initiative has been delayed and, in part, delayed. But it is a question of principle and what would be right. It is also a question of a longer-term correction of the current situation. As Myllykoski said, the initiative has received majority support across party boundaries. Our current situation is not only old-fashioned and unfair, but completely absurd. In Finland, online orders for beer and alcohol from abroad are becoming more popular, but for Finnish small breweries similar sales are prohibited. Every Finn can order taxes on the Internet, paying for beer, wine and stronger drinks, but not from Finland. Quite the triumph of regulation and guardianship may be that beer from the small brewery in the region — i.e. Finnish drinks made in Finland — can be ordered to the home door once the drinks have been shipped out of Finland by lorries and ships. In this matter, there is no common sense, no moderation, no climate, no Finnish barley fields and a Finnish farmer, no domestic expertise, and especially not local work and high-quality entrepreneurs who make quality products in Finland. Even if a Finnish citizen would like to support a local, domestic small brewery, foreign products can be selected when the purchase takes place in a foreign country. Small brewery beer from Paloka in Jyväskylä cannot be ordered at home, but German Bavarian beer can be ordered. This puts domestic local actors in a unequal position vis-à-vis foreign operators, and the current model favours a foreigner and a reproached Finn. Mr President! The current ban on the sale of small breweries at a distance means that within the EU the rules of the game are not the same for everyone. The free movement of goods and services seems to mean that small breweries in our own country are left at the feet of producers in other countries, and this is solely because of our rigid and outdated legislation. I believe that in Finland we must take decisive steps towards moderation and emphasise the European alcohol culture. Allowing small breweries to sell at a distance would be a step towards this objective, while supporting local work, entrepreneurship and small brewing culture. Madam President! The interest period has also treated small breweries unfairly. For small entrepreneurs, getting their own products for sale in stores has been challenging, but in many restaurants products have been brought up. The closure of bars and pubs has pushed not only restaurant entrepreneurs but also food and beverage suppliers and producers into a tight spot. It is high time that domestic operators were placed on a level playing field alongside foreign operators in this distance selling issue and that small breweries were given the right to sell their own products to consumers through their online shop, transported home. Allowing distance sales would also help to smooth the export of Finnish small brewery products and the competitive situation in the sector both in Finland and in Europe. I therefore call for locality, moderation, fairness and good sense of common sense for the discussion of this proposal, but also for the implementation of the liberalisation of all Finnish alcohol policy, which is now the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u76	Madam President! First of all, thank Mrs Myllykoski for her excellent initiative. In his speech and in his recent speech, this topic was already very comprehensively opened and described. I myself would make a permanent arrangement instead of a temporary arrangement in the initiative, and now that we are talking about alcohol at all, it would be high time in Finland to extend the sale to wines. This idea has been widely discussed over the years, and it has also gained broad support among Finns. In the spring, the Coalition Party proposed that restaurants and breweries should be given the right to buy out more widely as well as to deliver at home. Prolonged corona restrictions are unfortunately a merciless blow to these sectors, and the despair of entrepreneurs is increasing. In order to facilitate the situation, we have also proposed a reduction in VAT on the issue of licences in the meeting. These measures, of course, do not, of course, all understand, solve the whole situation, but for many restaurants and breweries these would be of enormous help.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u77	President! I have already signed this initiative by Mrs Myllykoski in the spring, along with more than 100 other representatives, and I am still in favour of it, although I hoped that this would have been dealt with as an urgent corona support measure in May. The temporary authorisation of distance sales proposed in the initiative would be a great opportunity to test, study and carry out an impact assessment and actually see how allowing distance sales affects Finnish alcohol consumption and habits. Since distance sales from other parts of Europe to Finland are already allowed, as the popularity of online commerce continues to grow and as our national alcohol taxation rises to extremes, it would be important to give Finnish small brewers even a moment's equal opportunity to cope with the corona crisis compared to their European competitors and at the same time to study the experience of the experiment. In the big picture, we also see one of Finland’s big problems, and it is taking care of our own businesses and jobs. Unfortunately, we do not know how to pull anything home, as other countries do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u78	Mr President! The tourism and restaurant sector has been hit extremely hard by the interest rate crisis. The decrease in human mobility and consumption has also had an immediate impact on the turnover of small breweries. Reduced orders in restaurants and the prevailing alcohol policy limit the survival of small breweries. Some small breweries have been innovative in trying to find new ways to increase their sales during these exceptional periods. Distance tastings, shop cars, drive-in services and handicraft manufacturing are a few examples of the creativity created by a coercive situation. However, innovative experiments cannot fully compensate for the buy-in of restaurants, since restaurants are an important single channel of sales for a large number of small breweries. One of the legislators' practical and relatively quick, though perhaps short-term, means of alleviating the plight of the brewery sector would be the adoption of the Myllykoski bill. At least temporarily, it would allow the distance marketing of alcoholic beverages containing up to 5.5% alcohol to be granted to small breweries holding a retail licence for alcoholic beverages. Furthermore, holders of a retail licence for craft beers would be granted the right to distance sales of craft beers manufactured by them themselves. Mr President! The importance of small breweries for Finnish restaurant culture has been exceptionally great. Small breweries have contributed to promoting Finnish drinking and beer culture from high consumption towards tasting culture. Smaller breweries have also been able to invest in the quality of raw materials. Finns are also prepared to pay for high-quality domestic beer. Although statistics show that total alcohol consumption has fallen, consumers have been buying more and more small brewery and artisanal beers in recent years. It is not sustainable or in accordance with the general sense of law, in no way reasonable that the legislation in force does allow for the ordering of alcohol and beer from foreign operators, but domestic small breweries do not have the possibility of selling at a distance. The situation is unsustainable for Finnish breweries. The government also fails to receive millions of taxes on alcoholic beverages as a result of foreign orders. The growing plight of small breweries also puts many jobs at risk both indirectly and immediately. On the other hand, success would also bring new work. I warmly support Mrs Myllykoski's bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u79	Madam President! The bill, signed by Mrs Myllykoski and a total of 110 MPs, suggests that small breweries are allowed to sell their own products at a fixed time due to the corona crisis. I would like to extend warm thanks to my colleague, Mrs Myllykoski, who is an excellent one-hundred, and to every Member of Parliament who cooperates with this more rational alcohol policy and with these fine Finnish small breweries. Mr President! This bill is a sensible change in our alcohol policy, which is above all bureaucratic and old-fashioned and directs Finns to acquire their own products outside our borders. The current situation is absurd. A Finnish person can order alcohol at his home door from a foreign online store. Thus, a Finnish can buy wines from Italy and beer from Germany, but he cannot order products from a domestic small brewery directly home, for example from Satakunta Ruosniemi brewery in Pori or Linden Brewery in Rauma. Our legislation therefore supports tax euro and jobs draining away from Finland. At the same time, Finnish small breweries and the whole brewery industry are in the loser's part, and that makes no sense, Mr President. I see that this bill would be an excellent first step towards moving Finland towards a more European alcohol policy. First of all, it should include the fact that this distance selling will therefore be permanently regulated, as Mr Pelkonen has said very well here. It also includes opening up the sale of wine-based alcoholic products to the grocery store and allowing them to be sold to restaurants. And that also means that tax policy should also encourage and direct consumption to more controlled conditions in restaurants and that it would also enable us to support this development in employment and entrepreneurship in the sector. Now, Mr President, the question is — and this is a question that goes directly to Minister Kiuru, who is responsible for alcohol policy: does Minister Kiuru want to support an absurd, bureaucratic alcohol policy which specifically encourages consumers to buy and order products from abroad, at the same time as tax revenues and jobs are draining outside our country, or is Minister Kiuru prepared to support a sensible, smart alcohol policy that supports this development and that these small breweries — and the alcohol sector in general in Finland — are growing and developing well? The ball is now at Minister Kiuru's house, and I expect him to bring the permanent motions to the House without delay.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u80	Madam President! Last summer my family and I went around my constituency of South-East Finland. We took the trip as one of the sidelines to tour the small breweries in the area. Personally, I am not a great beer drinker, but in the face of a brave passion of my own, I am a friend of putting myself on the line, and that is exactly what I see in those small breweries: genuine entrepreneurship, where the heart takes precedence over hours of work. I still did not become a great beer friend in the summer, but I became a friend of small breweries. As Mr Myllykoski's initiative explained, there are more than a hundred small breweries in Finland, many of which have only started operations in recent years. The cost structure of several small breweries is still relatively heavy and many are particularly vulnerable to the end of sales following the corona virus epidemic. The great threat is that many of these fine small breweries will now be forced to cease their activities. This could be disastrous for the sprouting small brewing industry. At the same time, many entrepreneurs would lose their livelihoods and workers would lose their jobs. I also believe that a positive beer culture, responsible for drinking one of the two special and local beers after a long working week, would suffer. The journey towards a responsible alcohol culture in Finland could lead to complications. In my opinion, the objective of Mrs Myllykoski's legislative initiative to enable small breweries to have a distance right is only and only reasonable, but it could also be made permanent. Distance selling of alcoholic beverages to Finnish customers is possible for sellers in other parts of Europe, so why not also these fine Finnish companies? I believe that Finns deserve to hear every single representative's voice on this issue, and I really hope that if we do not reach an agreement, the vote will take place in this Chamber. Less bureaucracy and more life! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u81	Madam President! Thank you to Mrs Myllykoski for this initiative. This brings out the culture of our small brewery, which is growing in Finland, and highlights the difficulties they are facing at the moment in our country. We have a lot of toasters today, roasting different coffee beans and so on, and there are diners in connection with it. At the same time, we also have small breweries with a small diner and a shop in connection with the brewery. This is the kind of culture that comes when a lot of friends have been involved in brewing beer and now they have put their resources together and make such small breweries, which can also grow bigger. They should be supported, this has a job-creating effect. Domestic raw materials and domestic labour are also often used for this and have a large employment impact. After all, beer is no longer grated as it used to be, drunk - seekingly, but wants to enjoy, taste different flavors, different types of beer. Those who want to get drunk often use vans to pick up beer from large breweries in Estonia or order it at the door in Europe, which is really cheap. Beer at small breweries is usually not cheap, so that it is not grated drunkly, but is enjoyed with flavors. Often it has been said that food is consumed with a certain wine, but now there is often a recommendation in the beer bottle, which it can do with food, so that you can then enjoy that beer instead of wine. I am also in favour of this being a permanent solution, that the possibility of distance selling should come to small breweries. It would certainly employ a lot of people in the future, and these small ones could then grow into bigger breweries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u82	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Thank you to Mrs Myllykoski for her excellent initiatives and good cooperation — here will be more of these initiatives later in the evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u83	Mr President! The main purpose of the Myllykoski bill is therefore to provide for a temporary derogation for Finnish breweries that would be allowed to sell certain alcoholic beverages at a distance. In this distance, alcoholic beverages would be delivered to customers outside the retail outlet. In practice, therefore, customers would order drinks online and they would be delivered to them. This Chamber has well described the peculiarities of our current legislation, for example, that domestic beer is being revered by ships and lorries abroad so that domestic or foreign beer can be ordered home online. For me, this is not really a question of alcohol policy in any way. This question is a cry for common sense and fair treatment of the sector. Of course, I want to support not only Finnish work, entrepreneurship and agriculture, but also justice, where the goal is to freshen up legislation and bring it to real life. President! I support Mrs Myllykoski's initiative because it is based on reason and moderation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u84	Mr President! In addition to all the turmoil, interest has caused serious difficulties for many companies in different industries. One of the worst hit is the event and restaurant industry. Of course, the plight of the restaurants is also strongly reflected in the sales figures of breweries. The summer season remained a torso, which has contributed to the decline in sales of alcoholic beverages. Restrictions to control the spread of the interest rate epidemic have been a poison to the brewing industry, and it is small breweries that are particularly vulnerable when sales collapse. The number of small breweries in Finland has increased considerably over the past few years, and many companies weigh heavily on investments in start-up and expansion, often made with loan money. It is unacceptable that potential companies should be forced to cease their activities due to a temporary exceptional situation. The news of company closure is like a wet rag to the face from the point of view of the workers who are put on the card. Mr President! If we now consider the impact of this bill by Mrs Myllykoski, I find it difficult to find the reasons why the bill should not be supported. I am very much in favour of it and I have also signed it. The benefits are quite obvious. Despite good news about the vaccine, the corona will have a strong impact on the sale of brewery products for at least months to come. Small breweries should certainly be supported through the crisis and enable continuity of operations. This temporary right of sale, as set out in the bill, would significantly improve the operating conditions of small breweries in the midst of difficulties. — This came a little late, but it was not up to Mrs Myllykoski, of course. And at this point I would also like to say to myself that I would be in favour of this becoming a permanent sale rather than a temporary sale. I do not believe that there are any disadvantages to responsible distance selling. At present, Finns can order alcohol products at a distance, for example, from Belgian breweries, i.e. there is nothing new or revolutionary about this in itself. It would only help domestic operators, and it goes without saying that the sold beer bottle of a small Finnish brewery accumulates more taxes in Finland than ordered from abroad. I find it very contradictory if you can order beer from abroad but not from Finnish small breweries. There is a great contradiction, and this should be changed. The Sakka-Suomen small brewery had to shut down last spring. It is a truly regrettable thing — fine beers. Fortunately, though, Stadin Brewery has now purchased Vakka-Suomen Panimo and the operations in this respect continue, but this shows how much trouble these small companies are in throughout. Thank you again to Mrs Myllykoski for a good initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u85	Madam President! There are things that everyone is in favour of, but they are not moving forward, and then there are things that no one is in favour of and yet they are moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u88	Madam President! I myself would like to thank Mrs Myllykoski for this excellent bill which proposes that less than 15 thousand litres of calendar... — I'm sorry, little mistake.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u95	Mr President! This is a worthy bill, and I myself have signed it as an interest rate measure. Of course, this is not huge, but it is a step in the right direction and will greatly improve the position of small breweries and restaurants. Although this is a little different, I would nevertheless like to express my support for the right of way mentioned by several other representatives to allow it to be a permanent practice for restaurants. After all, the liberalisation of alcohol policy in Finland is indeed behind the pain and twist. I could say that I am talking here about some kind of expertise, because last season I made a proposal to allow strong beer in shops and I think I also gave a decisive voice in the large committee in favour of the release of tenterolai. I wonder where is the place where these initiatives, signed by more than half of Parliament, will not move forward. Many here have spoken of the absurdity of Finnish alcohol policy and distance selling. The Finnish authorities are acting in an arbitrary manner in relation to this distance selling, stretching the boundaries of the laws. In the sense that this should mean that someone in the service is either incapable of promoting these matters in accordance with the will of the legislator or is actively opposed to them. My question is: who is the incapacitated or unwilling person here, or is it the typical pattern of the public sector that the incompetence leads to the indifference? In time, when the Finns were sold the EU and had to force the Finns to join it, we were promised cheap cars and free alcohol. Those promises have now been awaited for 25 years, and I doubt that other promises can be expected.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u96	Madam President! As far as I am concerned, I should like to thank Mrs Myllykoski for her initiative and for her overstepping. As many colleagues have already said, the current situation is ludicrous. Whatever the spirit of alcohol, everyone understands that current politics do not really serve the interests of Finns in any way. You can order from Europe legally, you can't order from Finland. I would also like to point out here that Mrs Myllykoski's initiative is quite moderate. It is not only beer that can be legally ordered there in Europe, but also wine that can be ordered there — and quite legally delivered to the home door. Today we received company news that the Finnish alcohol company had established an online shop in Estonia. Is this sustainable development, either, that from here to Finland, the products are first shipped to Estonia, after which the customer can legally order them at his home door? No, it's not. And tax revenue will also flow there on Estonian soil, even though it would of course be more justified for us to get it here to deal with the alcohol problem. I think, as Mr Heinonen said in his own speech, that Parliament must now take the ball away from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. We must now make bold decisions. Like many other speakers, I am in favour of this arrangement, which is now being promoted, being permanent, but even if it is fixed-term, for example, for two years, it will then provide genuine information on the effects, if this is allowed. I claim that these effects are only positive, there will be no negative effects. Mr Strandkin was right there to recall the fact that last season, in a tough vote, Mr Juha was presented by the signatory. With the support of the column, the 5.5% drinks will be imported into grocery stores. Experts painted horrendous horror pictures of the fall of the sky and the increase of the people’s alcoholization and disorder of order. In fact, alcohol consumption has continued to decline and there has been no such negative side effects as we were talked about. This is a good initiative. I hope that this will also serve as a basis for a broader debate on alcohol policy in this country. We certainly have a lot to do with the regulation. This week I noticed in my nearby restaurant that sales of alcoholic beverages have started: less than 5.5 per cent of drinks can be sold out with food, for example. But think: there is also a way that before 9:00 a.m. the customer can buy as much alcohol at the restaurant as he wants, the restaurant can keep it in the cold, and then the customer can stay at the restaurant, for example, up to the tab, and then get the drinks he bought before 21 p.m. Is it really the case that the infrastructure of our society would be in danger if we could go there at 9:15 and buy it for ourselves? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u97	Madam President! Thank you very much to Mrs Myllykoski for a very fine bill. It is indeed done by a gentleman, and it is well written and well prepared. Thank you to him and to all those who supported this initiative. I believe that this Finnish legislation on alcohol, which is abstinence, must have been wisdom for this nation, but we must slowly move towards a European approach. And I'm sure Alko's monopoly isn't upsetting when you can order a truckload of wine or beer from abroad, if you look at it, and at the same time a Finnish small brewery can't do the same home delivery. So this situation is just so fierce, it's just so unbelievably unfair. Indeed, when I looked at that paper with the support of Mr Kiviranta, it was forced to think of whether discrimination against companies is also a matter of favouring others, favouring foreign people, and discrimination against domestic people. This is almost an issue of equality. Is this an illegal restriction of competition that the EU itself controls? Of course, I understand this monopoly, but it has nothing to do with whether a monopoly is being compromised, not of course, but with the possibility for small Finnish entrepreneurs to work in this country for the benefit of Finns and sell fine Finnish products. I've come across this same problem on those vineyards. Even in Ilomants it is, making excellent quality products. The entrepreneur once told me when I asked him about this same problem, which was also referred to in Mrs Myllykoski's good initiative. A similar problem was found in the vineyard where berry wines were made. I asked this entrepreneur what was the big problem with your company. The guy was quiet for a while. Then a happy, little boyly smile spread on his face and he calmly said that if they had been helped forward to the extent that they had been hindered by the authorities in running this business, they would certainly be Europe's largest vineyard today. The bureaucracy he gave me some examples — I couldn't believe that story. Perhaps we Finns should one day realize that there are a huge number of small entrepreneurs in different sectors in this country who should be given a genuine chance, on the basis of bureaucracy, to operate in that company in a controlled and restrained manner and to do the work and, above all, to employ Finns. And at the same time, it would manage our current account when buying in Finland and not in Spain or Chile. After all, it is crazy that you can order a shipment of wine from Chile but not from the small brewery 10 km away that is certainly producing a great local product, which is certainly the healthiest thing that can be.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u98	Mr President! I too would very much like to stand up and testify for this excellent initiative by Mrs Myllykoski. It would be an absolutely sensible and entrepreneurial policy to allow Finnish small breweries to sell to Finnish consumers at a distance for alcoholic beverages containing up to five and a half per cent alcohol. This would not only ease the plight of the sector in the context of coronavirus but would also eliminate the incomprehensible lack of distance selling to Finnish consumers by sellers in other parts of Europe, but not the distance selling of Finnish sellers. For a long time we have been shooting ourselves in the foot with this legislation, which hinders Finnish entrepreneurship and employment and benefits foreign operators. Now is the time to make this right. I am in favour of the bill before us and I have signed it in April.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u99	Madam President! I would also like to thank Mrs Myllykoski for this initiative on small breweries, which I myself have also signed. I believe that this is a matter of great fairness: the operating conditions of domestic small breweries in relation to the consumer's ability to buy similar products from international companies online directly on the doorstep, as we have seen today in the debate. I find it problematic that alcohol legislation now treats a domestic operator differently compared to an international operator. In practice, this means that Finnish companies are in a different position than foreign companies, because in Finland the alcohol product cannot be sold remotely but can be ordered from abroad. It is as Mr Könttä said in the very first speech: there is no common sense in this matter at the moment. Small breweries are local employers and their products are luxury products that stand out at the price, not cheap alcohol that is being drunk, as has been said. In my municipality of residence, for example, the Vääksy brewery and the wine and gardening farm in Pihama are heavily used in their products, for example, by grain in the nearby region and thus support the grain cluster in our region. According to the Federation of breweries and small breweries, the entire chain of industry from the barley field to the consumer through logistics, restaurants and commerce means work for some 25,000 Finns, and so during the corona period it is not a small amount of it. During the last government term, farm sales were facilitated, which means that we have already made progress. This is the next step. The second is to secure Alko's monopoly position, as far as I can see. With very little benefit, let alone unintentionally, you should not take too much risk in this matter. Independent legal assistance should be available to assess the size of this risk even at the drafting stage. However, the proposal is quite moderate in its term of time, and I therefore support this bill and its spirit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u100	Värderade Talman! Ett stort tag till ledamot Myllykoski för ett viktigt lagförslag. Det är är et tämmet enitiativ som lyfter fram de utmangar som små bryggerer har stött på under coronaepidem. Många små producer har drabbats då de traditionella försäljningskanalerna försvann i och med coronan. Discussionen i dag handlar om hur vi kan stärka de rauh företagarnas verksamhet. En stor orsak till varför jag valde att skriva under det ox lagförslaget var att det är ologiskt att en företagare inte kan sälja sina egna produkter via sina egna nazidor, bara via utländska nazidor. Vår lagstiftning för alltså ut pengar och katteintäkter från finländska produkter till utlandet. Det är någonting som måste lauttas till.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u101	Mr President! I too agree with those thanks in the direction of Mrs Myllykoski. Extremely good bill, and it is great that there are up to 110 signatories here. This is just the kind of legislation we need for the moment. There is a corona situation, companies are failing, and with such small measures we could help them. Such a bill is a very good addition to this situation. A few comments on the debate. First of all, the fact that the parties present here — excluding the KD, the Movement Now and the Prime Minister's Democrats, for which there is actually no one present in this debate — have admitted this in this Chamber that distance selling is permissible. And this is actually the best point of this debate. Officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health have justifiably justified this in such a way that we would have a discriminatory arrangement if the Finnish brewery were allowed to sell at a distance but, for example, German would not. This is also an exceptionally bad assessment of the direction of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. That is not true, and in this Chamber all these parties have said that distance selling is allowed. That is why I would like to see a message coming from here in the direction of the Prime Minister's Party, including Minister Kiuru, that distance selling is allowed, and then, for example, this bill would be much easier to deal with. Minister Kiuru said today in Question Time, however he said, that the government is a servant and the parliament is a host. In my opinion, Mr Kiuru should now look closely at this bill, signed by 110 representatives, and specifically at what he has said. I should really ask the Minister if he is a minister of his word.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u102	Madam President! I too am one of the signatories to this excellent initiative and I warmly support Mrs Myllykoski's initiative. As has already been declared several times here, it is neither fair nor, by any means, equal to the fact that it is possible to order alcoholic products from abroad on pallets but not even a can from this country of origin. But once again we are in the situation in our society that the principles in which these things must go and the basis on which these things work make no difference. The principle of equality, the principle of fairness — they are just the basics on which this rule of law, the thinking and functioning of our welfare state are based, and suddenly there are such strange deviations that they don't matter so much. I don't understand what's going on here. I have followed very close to the breweries industry, some of them, and I am deeply impressed by the innovativeness and enterprise that I have seen in those companies and what is happening there. I strongly believe that there would be a lot to learn about business in general, the amount of fast and fine work it is. We must remember that there are over a hundred of these small breweries companies in this country. It's a lot at the same time, and it's a little bit. It does not threaten Alko's monopoly, but it employs and brings tax money. And once again, it can be said that it also has a multiplier effect when, at this time of interest rate, they could fully engage in and engage in this business. Then everyone would benefit from it. There is nothing to be done here except to protect the monopoly of Alko at the expense of entrepreneurs and the backskin. But what I have wondered about here, both as legislator and as lawkeeper, is precisely that under the Alcohol Act it is not forbidden to sell alcohol at a distance and then it is not allowed to do so. I wonder what principle this is all about. Once again, one principle that does not apply in this matter. I regard it as very special and as proof that the alcohol law is so vague that it will have to undergo a comprehensive renovation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u103	Madam President! If I say at this beginning that the ancient Romans once did, then some will be afraid that there will be a long talk. I am not going to the Romans, but I would say that when we talk about putting beer on, for example, we are absolutely fundamental to things. In fact, beer has been brewing long before the Roman times, thousands of years before the Roman times, and some cultural anthropologists believe that the foundation of such a civilization has actually been that when one has had to do the division of labour to obtain enough grain for this beer to succeed, then permanent communities have begun to be built. Well, of course we can't know for sure. But I would like to thank Mrs Myllykoski for being Finnish entrepreneurs with this bill to support and promote small brewery activities. This small brewery and entrepreneurship culture, which has become stronger in Finland in recent years, is certainly a valuable addition to both Finnish food culture and traditional culture as well as, for example, part of Finland's growing international tourism. The international tourist always asks if he could have one local beer, and in this sense, now that we are living in a situation where tourists cannot get to Finland, it is absolutely essential that, in this situation, we support these entrepreneurs in the sector, support the good development work that has been done, because the sale under this bill would be possible so that we can survive this difficult period of time. Mr President! Of course, I believe that this should have been in order in Finland long ago, but it is a good thing that Mrs Myllykoski's good initiative now makes this kind of common sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u104	Ladies and gentlemen! The hour allocated for this debate is now beginning to be spent, but there are only three Members who have taken the floor. If they are three minutes' speeches and if there are no further speeches on the list, then let us finish this debate. That's the extension before the signal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u105	Mr President! Thank you for that. — First of all, I would like to thank Mr Myllykoski. This is important for all small breweries around Finland. The Corona virus epidemic and the restrictions imposed to slow it down have rapidly and substantially weakened the operating conditions of Finnish small breweries. There are over 100 small breweries in Finland, many of which have only started operations in recent years. The cost structure of several small breweries is still relatively heavy and many are particularly vulnerable due to the cessation of sales following the corona virus epidemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u106	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Thank you very much for the extension. I'm only going to draw you together very briefly. I think that Mr Kivisaari has said well, starting with the fact that it is not a question of alcohol policy, but of fairness and organisation and that we are also keeping tax euros and work in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u107	Your Honor! It is a pleasure to deal with an initiative which is also signed by the Bureau, and it gave the impression that we now have the strength to do so. I would like to thank those representatives who know that they have worked so that the 110 names have been added to this. I should not have done this alone, and, of course, here in the background is the article of the Small Brewery Federation on the basis of which this initiative has been taken. This could blind yourself to these thanks, but let us try to keep a low line that fortunately Mr Hänninen was able to bring it into the right context that I have exceeded myself. Stay here and follow me, and I will cross myself the next time, but on another subject and with colleagues who made it possible for the next bill to be dealt with. But even now, at this point, I'm telling you, because this thing stayed so much turbulent that we're gonna put the next gear in the eye. I promise to start preparing a bill to allow distance selling in Finland, and I will ask each party to join in together to do this. We show the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health that we are doing a fair policy that enables Finnish entrepreneurs to enter the market more easily, enabling distance sales to Finns in Finland, and not that we need to recycle. At least that does not make any sense to the climate. This is a promise I'm going to make. We'll start preparations next week so we can show our willingness to go with the gang that shows the ministry where the chicken, so to speak. Thank you all!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u108	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u109	Mr President! A very long road has been taken to shorten payment default marking. During the last parliamentary term, this bill with a similar team game received 138 signatures, corresponding to more than 400,000 Finnish signatures if the number of voters had been calculated for those who signed this bill. But it remained, so to speak, a dud, did not get its values dealt with, as citizens' initiatives receive 50,000 names. In other words, there is something in our culture of discussion that does not appreciate the legislative initiatives taken by the MPs, and I hope that the parliamentary reform working party will take this matter on its list and that we will start to see that the legislative initiatives taken by the MPs are always dealt with in committee: not only are they to be notified, but they will be dealt with by the committee in three months, and will be informed whether this is going to go ahead or whether it is going to wait for the government to come forward. There must be some point to this, and I believe that it will also, if you could say, curb the production of initiatives when they are also dealt with in such a way that they become known that they will not do exactly what happens. First of all, I would like to thank those colleagues who were the first to sign their own parliamentary groups: Arto Satonen, Ville Vähämäki, Arto Pirttilahti, Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, Joakim Strand, Katja Taimela and Antero Laukkanen. If it weren't for us, we wouldn't be discussing this today. So this has been the effort of the team, the whole parliament, to have this on the table again. During the last parliamentary term, the Legal Committee wrote a letter to the Ministry of Justice that this law should be rushed and separated from the preparation of a positive credit register. That letter — I don’t think the mail lost it. Well, there were some other reasons why it got lost there in the Ministry of Justice. Much has already happened in this parliamentary term. We received the 100 names again, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy dealt with — whether there were interest rates for quick-leases, and the ceiling was set at a maximum of 10%. Mr Strand was then on the Committee on Economic Affairs, is still, and the Pirttähti, and that gave us an excellent boost, a statement, to that bill, and it was adopted by Parliament. So we now have the approval of Parliament — not just that we have more than 100 MPs, but that Parliament has unanimously adopted the statement made in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Since then, we have heard Minister Henriksson say that this positive credit register cannot be implemented during this parliamentary term, as it was in the government programme with a goal, and that is why it is being taken forward by law, but now there is a natural difference between these two issues. Of course, there is an article in the Government Programme that they are prepared together, but now there is no such pressure, but hopefully... I hope that Mr Strand will have something to say about the possibilities of this, but there is still a minister of his own party in charge of this, and whether some messages have already come from the officials of the Ministry of Justice. But, as we know, the interest rate still brings people to loan difficulties and is, let's say, an unfortunate automatic for default marking. The hanging where people are to get a rental dwelling or a phone is excluded from society even though the debt has been paid — yes, in the rule of law, you must be even when the punishment is done. But in this case it will take two years, and even when it is often up to four years, it will not be limited to that two years alone. In that respect, it is quite a matter of improvement that we bring these people back to society's standards. Think of the problem for small entrepreneurs who happen to have a default mark. The bank's taps are closed. In this way, what is now in force will prevent business from developing and growing, and it will also be particularly painful for those people who are in this yoke, and we must be able to bring it back to being a citizen in this society, to live a normal life. Those who want to say that this does not prevent debt: well, let us not prevent it, but let us give people the opportunity to come back to this society. And it is hoped that at some point, when social credit is being tried to import the whole country under the Government Programme and presumably it is being done in connection with the social welfare reform, the terms could at least be changed so that we do not talk about a default mark, which the taker of social credit is forced to take for himself, but rather a voluntary ban on borrowing. So let's try to get this over with. We have too many people, over 400,000 people with a default mark. Of course, I understand that this is a good business for the company that maintains this service. After all, this bill includes the fact that it announces that ‘this will be removed from the register’. Those people are so tired they can't watch that... It must be the responsibility of the creditor to deliver the notification when the debt has been settled. I think this is very important, and I hope that it will now become a reality, that we will have this bill submitted to it and that it will also move quickly. Thank you again to all my fellow Members, and especially to all those who have signed this. This is a good place to go, I hope.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u110	President! This initiative, tabled by Mrs Myllykoski, has been promoted during the last parliamentary term and has since collected an excellent number of signatures, over 100. The initiative proposes that the enforcement officer should be obliged to submit a declaration of withdrawal without the debtor’s specific request when the enforcement ground is removed, which would be carried out by means of a technical connection. I believe that this should be taken for granted, and the digital leap should have been carried out already in the previous round of the legislative initiative in 18 C.E. In the current situation, the debtor must ask the enforcement officer separately to submit a notification of withdrawal of the information he has provided to the credit information provider and the default marking will not therefore be automatically removed. This is not in anyone's interest. On the other hand, with regard to the initiative proposal, I am a little critical of removing default marking from the credit register within one month of the debt being settled or out of date. In the current situation, the label will remain for two years, i.e. even if the debt has been settled. This is an unreasonably long time, but, as the Ministry of Justice has said in the 18th Act, default marking is a tool for many different operators, such as the landlord. The entry indicates if there is a high risk that the person will not pay the rents, debts, insurance and so on. Of course, this can be thought of as a rather marginal part of the population, that is, only those who can settle their debts on a particularly fast schedule, since the majority have several entries and none of the entries will be removed until all the entries have been removed. But, as the Ministry of Justice recently stated, the almost immediate removal of the marking would encourage people to temporarily artificially clear their credit records by taking on new and increasingly expensive debts. This would, therefore, certainly not improve the sustainability of the economic management of people in financial difficulties, but, on the contrary. There are good pieces of this bill in the vast problem of over-indebtedness, but even more needs to be done. The government also recognises the problem and has promised to make the necessary legislative changes to the enforcement cycle, to introduce a positive credit register and to shorten the duration of default marking. However, nothing has happened yet and these proposals have not been brought to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u111	Ärade talman, Mr President! I can almost promise that this will be the first government to correct this. That is what has now been achieved thanks to Mrs Myllykoski and also to Elomaa and Hänninen and many others who have already fought in the last period and probably before that. In the sense of personal experience, I worked in the legal department of one of the banks during my studies for many years and handled, among other things, recovery. You could see the small damage that it caused many times, and that's when the other problems come when you're in financial trouble: you don't get that cell phone subscription, you don't necessarily get a place or insurance or anything, and then you get substance abuse, you get gambling addiction, you get drugs and so on. In that big picture, I think it's kind of a small challenge whether you feel that if it were just for a month, then somehow there would be a large-scale temporary clean-up and then again. I personally believe that those who get rid of it and get those registers cleared are probably even more motivated to keep those plates clean when they see that hey, here comes a new life. But, of course, whether it is now a month or two months is not a question of threshold. The fact that it is now two or four years is totally unreasonable. I do not think it is compatible with the rule of law at all. I like the sound of that month. That is where Mrs Myllykoski went through the activities of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy. For my part, I would like to thank colleagues there for having received a clear record and demand that next spring we should come to this Chamber with a proposal on this particular point. I have the feeling that the Ministry is already getting quite well prepared, but they will be able to comment on it themselves. It also makes sense that this positive credit register has now been removed, because everyone who has worked on these matters a little bit and seen the problem knows that such a register will not be created in a second. You don't have to mention a lot of things, you know what it takes to maintain such safe registers and sensitive human data. It is a completely different matter, and it is good that it also goes its own way. The fact that we can give hope to those who want to get out of that existing register is now the main thing. It will have a huge number of positive, dynamic effects when people are given the hope that, once the debts are settled, they will also be able to get away in a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u112	Mr President! As the evening progresses, legal initiatives will only improve. I have signed this, like the previous bill, which was discussed in the previous section. I took the floor because I wanted to give an example of a couple who had a couple of children and was getting divorced. There the man wanted to harass his wife at the time of the divorce, squandered money and left the bills unpaid, and then became credit cards with the wife — who became an ex - wife. No matter how it is, that woman stayed with the kids in that rental apartment, which was too big at that point and too expensive. But the problem was that when you had to get to the cheaper one, when your credit records were gone, you couldn’t get a rental dwelling, which means you had to pay for a flat that you couldn’t afford in vain. This is a really unfortunate thing that here one can make a bully that is not self-produced by it, but by the spouse. And the same thing is, if you don't get home insurance, a lot of people don't get rental housing. The same applies to the telephone line. Many people have had a small default, but they would still have money and need a proper cell phone, but there may not be enough money to buy it as a one-time purchase, but buy it as a part-payment. Well, that won't work again. However, we need telephone lines and good phones. Many have no computer other than what is on the cell phone, and we now pay bills through our cell phone and do many other activities. Such basic materials should be acquired, when, however, they would have the capacity to pay for them at least. When it is said that debt is paid, I also hope that the positive credit record in the future will move forward with a view to preventing the accumulation of those debts. I am in favour of this bill that this should go forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u113	Mr President! In Finland, enforcement and inappropriate debt recovery and default marking deepen the plight of a large number of people. I believe that legislation defining the status of debtor should be reformed in many respects and that the proper treatment of debtors in all situations should be ensured. In addition to a certain degree of mercy, enforcement requires the famous common sense and good case-by-case consideration. The pit of people in financial difficulties should not be dug any deeper. Then, more specifically, the actual subject of the initiative, i.e. default marking. The default marking is like the stamp of a inferior citizen, which makes life difficult in many ways. The challenges related to housing are one of the fundamental flaws. Everyone has to live somewhere, and in the rental housing market the situation is particularly in growth centres where the jobs are located, so that landlords can afford to choose the tenants from the large cluster of tenant candidates. Credit information is often checked and people with a default marking are coldly dropped out of the game without any further consideration. Renting a dwelling is often conditional on receiving a home insurance policy, and in that respect a payment default marking may become a problem. Opening telephone subscriptions or other contracts will also become more difficult. It goes without saying that access to credit and credit is also belligerent as a result of the default marking. Getting a job, especially in the banking sector, can also fall on the label. Mr President! Many default marking is created as a result of temporary financial difficulties and may come from a small amount. Even though the debt has been paid off up to the last cent, the default marking does not disappear anywhere. The default mark will haunt the recipient for two years, even if the debt has been repaid. This doesn't make any sense. We can talk about the needless squatting of people. Mrs Myllykoski's initiative, which proposes the removal of default marking from the credit register whenever the debt has been settled or expired or the underlying debt has been removed, must indeed be supported, and thanks to Mrs Myllykoski for having taken an excellent initiative. The initiative proposes a rapid phasing-out of the default marking, which I also think is a good thing. What's the point of hanging people on the edge of the abyss unnecessarily, if it's done? There are more than half a million citizens in enforcement at the moment. Almost 400,000 Finns have a default mark as ballast, so it is not a marginal case, but a very large matter affecting the lives of a large number of people. I see no reason why the excessive long-term retention of the default marking penalises a person. Now, even during the time of the interest rate, when economic difficulties have increased, people need to be helped over the difficulties, not further deepened the difficulties. This is not a question of debt forgiveness for creditors, but of humanity and fairness. When there really is no more money, I think that encouragement and the opportunity to move on from a clean table is in everyone's interests. Thank you, Mr Strand, for providing promising information: possibly things are also progressing in the government. Representative Strand has also been on the agenda with these issues and has been trying to take things in a positive direction for those with a default mark over the last period. In my own area, too, what things I am trying to take forward here in Parliament have been very much on the agenda for years. At first, the banking credentials were not going to get people at all. It meant that even the payment of the bills became much more expensive if there were no bank IDs. I made a couple of legislative initiatives, but if there is a good thing to say about the EU, then in the end the EU became already aware of the fact that the Finnish government must take the matter forward, and then there was a correction. The discussion initiative also went through, and as a basic Finnish, I got it through. Thank you for going to the Council of Presidents, but unfortunately there was a minister like this at the time and that debate was a little tedious in this Chamber. The victims of the '90s recession have also been forgotten. I would like to see attention paid to them in this context. They do deserve forgiveness, don't they? In other words, the corona makes life tight, and there are unfortunately additions to enforcement and default marking. I hope for humanity for these people who will be in this discipline, and for the proper handling of their affairs, including in the area of enforcement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u114	Mr President! A former hockey coach once said that nothing but a shoulder for ice and a name for the magazine. And it seems that Mr Myllykoski has paint places today, and hopefully a name in the paper tomorrow and later in history for these two excellent legislative initiatives. This is about the fact that we in Finland have a lot of non-payment marking for people, but even after they have fulfilled that debt, it will follow them for another two years. Even after that — as Mrs Myllykoski described in her time — when her sins have been reconciled, this practically punitive marking remains, and this is what the bill signed by Mrs Myllykoski and more than 100 MPs wants to correct. When this was discussed here under the leadership of Mrs Myllykoski or the previous one, it was 2018, and I considered that there were less than 380,000 default marks in Finland, and now Mr Myllykoski told me that there were more than 400,000. Last summer's figure was just under 400,000, but it still lacked the labelling of this corona period, which is now, as Mrs Myllykoski said, more than 400,000 entries. And for more than ten years each year, these default messages have grown. During the previous year, before the corona, there were more than 7,000 entries, and at the moment less than 10 per cent, 8.5 per cent, of Finnish adults have a default mark. It is then a place for our own discussion, why this is the case, what we could do to prevent this from happening, but here we are correcting just as clear an injustice. And I myself had put these BICs on my own list, which we had many conversations about. Representative Elomaa was proactive and, if I recall correctly, this was also shown on the left side of the hall, that it is unreasonable that because of the default mark no bank credentials are available and then bank IDs were required for a number of other activities other than those in the bank itself. And here it turned out that when the True Finns cried out, the EU answered, as Elomaa’s representative there testified,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u119	Mr President! Here we must once again thank Mrs Myllykoski and all the parliamentarians who have been involved in the signing of this excellent bill. In other words, once the debt has been paid, the default marking should be removed. It is human, fair and then, overall, gives people the opportunity to start again — to find employment, to have access to housing, to take out home insurance, telephone subscriptions, to have such a normal everyday life — and at the moment it does not happen for many people. As Mrs Elomaa has rightly said, we currently have almost half a million — not quite, but 400,000 — people with a default mark. So this, if anything, affects the vast Finnish population and their loved ones and loved ones and makes everyday life difficult for them. That is why, as Mr Heinonen has said here, there are a number of parliamentarians here who are defending the restoration of human rights and the restoration of human dignity for these people, because, after all, the mark of failure to pay is also something that, when you are there, you also have self-esteem and self-esteem. In other words, not everyone who has a default mark has produced them for themselves, but, as has been pointed out here in the speech of a representative, someone else may have been able to plant them and then be held responsible for them and as a substitute. Can't help it, can't change it, but then they'll still be there for two to four years — two to four years — not a life sentence, but almost. It can indeed have those crucial meanings when you look for a job and there you see that aha, you have a default mark. Even if you were a conscientious citizen, trying to pay your own bills in time, there has been a situation that has come up against that default marking, and you have been stamped and you bear that guilt for several years without a solution — despite having paid off those debts. That is why I warmly support this initiative to go through and change it, because this is a human rights issue in my opinion. In this regard, Mr Heinonen raised these BICs. In other words, in the past online banking credentials were not even issued to those who had a default mark. Fortunately, there has been a change in the law, but now there are light online banking credentials that do not have such extensive features as those that do not have the default mark. In other words, people are also in an unequal position, which may make it more difficult to visit online services, even though today, in the name of its digitalisation, people are sworn and assured. I believe that we are in favour of this bill together on the joint front across opposition and government borders and party lines,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u120	Mr President! I must say that Mrs Myllykoski has earned the great respect of all of us and her tenacity and initiative have been exemplary — she has been warmly grateful for having been able to work on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u123	Mr President! It is not appropriate for the default marking to continue to cause penal damage to the former debtor for years after he has paid his debts. At present, the default marking will remain in the credit repository for two years, despite the fact that the debt has already been settled. In order to remedy this instance, it is appropriate to amend the Credit Information Act and the enforcement cycle by automatically removing default marking without a separate request from the credit repository whenever the debt has been settled or expired or the underlying debt has been removed. I am in favour of the bill before us, and I have also signed it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u124	Värderade Talman! Ett stort jack igen till ledamot Myllykoski för den raus lagmotionen, och också till ledamot Strand för att han så envist jobbat för den ox saken. Stort tag till er båda. Förkortningen av förvaringstider för betalningsanmärkningar har redan länge variant på wallpaper och ska enligt regeringsprogrammet förkortas. Under coronakrisen har mångas betalningsförmåga ändrats, och det har för många också blivet ett facttum att de fått betalningsanmärkningar. En betalningsanmärkning kan ge stora consekenser i vardagen. Det kan vara svårt att få bostad, det kan vara svårt att få bankkoder, försäkringar eller telefonabonnemang. Dossutom är det ologiskt att gäldenären själv ska be om att få bort anmärkningen. Det auri måste ske automatiskt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u125	Mr President! Everything that has been said in this debate is certainly true, and indeed the human emergency that people who have lost their credit records must of course be touched by this time when the number of these defaults in Finnish society is increasing and, at the same time, the importance that there is no default is absolutely essential for a smooth everyday life. In this sense, however, I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that, when the debt has been settled, we all agree that the default marking should go away, that in society we will then have the mechanisms to protect the person who has lost these credit records at some point in time, that there will be, for example, a whimper who will offer — even when a person is renting a dwelling — that ‘there is no need to settle the outstanding debt’, so that you have been able to rent an unavoidable new residence for a family’. Then the person may drift from a ditch to an ally with regard to the financial situation of this family. So we have to have mechanisms that protect people, for example, from this kind of leverage, and in this sense to prevent over-indebtedness, we have to have a positive credit register, and in this debate I have not yet come up with whether this positive credit register is now coming from the government. When Myllykoski, as it were, nodded from there that he was coming, it would be important for us to be informed now in this debate when and with what timetable this is going to take place. But in any case I thank Mrs Myllykoski, and here we have been thanking, for example, our fellow Member, Joakim Strand, and so on, for this long-standing work that you have done to improve the status of debtors. It is quite clear that when it is done, it will happen to the person doing it, and it is disproportionate for this current situation, in which, even after a default note, credit information is lost for two years. This needs to be corrected, but at the same time we also need to protect people from the fact that, when this label is removed more quickly, it will not lead to a worse spiral of debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u126	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank Mrs Myllykoski for this activity, as well as Mr Strand, and it has been a pleasure to be personally involved in this, in the sense that there has been a broad collection of names. This initiative is very important, as has already been described by many here, and of course I hope that this initiative will go through as it is. If not, at least the fact that this two-year period would be significantly reduced would be absolutely necessary in this situation. Yes, of course. Mr Helpto set a good example in the fact that he also needs this positive credit register, and personally I am very pleased that this one of our joint initiatives, which was tabled in my own name, this ban on the marketing of speed levers, has already come to pass, that it is possible to prevent as many people as possible from even going into this cycle. But when you’ve got into it, and if you’ve survived it, it’s unreasonable to spend two years being a little bit like a loose hang. I have wondered why such a system is in general and whose interests it serves. It may be that someone thinks that if the credit information has ever gone, there is a greater risk that it can go again, but it is not a reason for the person who is now trying to get started to take the opportunity to do so. I think it was Mr Hänninen who said that this is also a human rights issue. In my opinion, that was a pretty good argument that this is a question of scale, that it would really like this to move forward. To conclude, Mr President, I do not think it is a good idea for parliamentarianism to have an initiative like this with over 100 signatures from this Chamber from the extreme left to the extreme right – which one of us is right now, I or Elomaa actually, [ Shows with his hands the left and right side of the hall where Elomaa sits — Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u127	Värderade Talman! Thank you very much, Mr Satonen, for your excellent support on this issue and also for your active involvement in the marketing ban. I would also like to take a short shot at this end from the point of view of principle, which was also discussed in connection with the previous issue. If more than a hundred representatives — elected here through democratic elections — take a very simple initiative in de facto, which is about a few points, then they will have to be dealt with with seriously in accordance with it. I hope that officials will also listen to this debate. The previous Parliament took this initiative, over a hundred, I think it was 138, if I remember correctly — there is nodling — and now we are doing this again. I do not know whether this would have gone this far without the strong opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which received the blessing of the whole Parliament. I hope that, at the latest, it gave us a boost because, according to our information, in February something will come out of this in the form of a presentation — let us really hope that this will be the case. But without this marathon race, in which you have all been involved, surely nothing would have come. So, thank you very much for that. And this positive credit register is also under construction. It is in the Government Programme, and it is progressing, but it is so extensive that it will hardly be completed during this period. Preparation is progressing, but there is no reason to slow down this simple performance. Partly it also applies to a little different people. The fact that sometimes, in a few years' time, we may be given even more credit, when we know everything, does not help those who are struggling — some 400,000 people — to get out of the register and to continue living, and it also has a lot of economic and other dynamic effects at the level of people, social aspects and so on, so that we have to make progress at last. Thank you again to all colleagues!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u128	Mr President! Yes, it is nice to cooperate with the people of the United States when there is a common cause, and Mr Satonen has been active in these matters and in this too. So, as I have already mentioned, this is not a one-man show, but it is the whole Parliament and the first signatory from each parliamentary group to get this project to this point. This is a record of shame for those people, and that is why I would say to Mr Auto that other methods must come alongside this, and that is the creation of social credit throughout the country, which is in the government programme. But now I want to ask Minister Kiuru in writing how the government will ensure that in these future welfare areas it will also be carried out in such a way that there will be no interruptions. The government should write down in the social welfare reform that this is coming to Finland as a whole. The study is now being carried out, but now that this mess is progressing, it is apparently being put there for decision-making in welfare areas. I would like to see a more robust direction from the government, precisely in the direction that it must come. And as I said in my opening speech, the question is also that we must be able to change these terms. For those who take it voluntarily — or have been forced to do so if you want social credit — this declaration of default must be changed. It is the voluntary refusal of a loan or someone else in that way, because it has become such a gloomy shadow. The default marking is a stigma, and it must be quickly removed, and it should not be unduly used in situations where man himself has problems. It's an obstacle. Indeed, the Government Programme has now set out particularly well the objectives relating to these debt cycles and these issues. It is now hoped that the opposition will help to bring things up regularly and remind the ministers and the representatives of the government parties of what has now been written there, so that we remain alert. But I promise you that these matters will be monitored with special precision even on the basis of its government programme record. At this point, I would like to thank the first signatories of the parliamentary groups who made it possible for us to be in this situation. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u129	Mr President! Thank you very much to Mrs Myllykoski for her active efforts in initiating the bill. The proposal is to be supported. At the same time, we should help people to avoid getting caught up in such situations. The number of persons who have received a default mark has grown steadily in recent years. The payment default marking is particularly available for 25 to 34-year-olds and especially for men. Studies on problems show that debt problems are complex and are intertwined not only with low incomes, early stages of adulthood and low education, but also with the challenges of financial management, inexperience in economic governance and many changes in life. For example, ending a relationship, becoming unemployed or becoming seriously ill is often the background to the serious debt problem of a young adult. Significant problem debt begins after the age of 18, and debt problems occur especially in young adults who are left behind in comprehensive school. The question therefore arises as to how best to reach these young adults who are at most dependent on comprehensive school and raise the level of their economic competence. It is also important to open the eyes of young people on the consequences of defaulting on payments, on the practical impact of default marking on everyday life. A young person suffering from a challenging life situation and various dependencies, such as gambling, alcohol or drug addiction, needs multi-professional assistance in a number of areas of life. However, everyone must have the right to get rid of default marking within a reasonable period of time, since the punitive retention of default marking by people who pay their debts is not in any way appropriate and can lead to a recurrence and worsening of financial difficulties. It is worthy of man that there is a chance for a new beginning.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u130	Mr President! This has been a very important debate and I can agree with all the speeches. In fact, I would like to say a few words about this principle: when, during the last parliamentary term, the majority of the Parliament called for this to be corrected, and once again we now have an initiative on the same subject signed by more than 100 Members of Parliament in the debate on referrals, we must give these initiatives the real value they deserve in Parliament and in the Finnish representative democracy in general. It is great that, for example, the citizens' initiative institution has become an active part of Finnish democracy and that citizens can, with their own activity, bring themes to the debate and even take legal projects forward through this representative process, but yes, Parliament must now really take on the role that belongs to it in our system, and these legal projects discussed here today must certainly go forward. It cannot be that the will of the majority of parliament, which represents the majority of the people — the people who are the host of this system — is not heard. According to the etymology of the word, ministers are the servants who are supposed to serve the people here and find the right forms to take these issues raised by the majority of Parliament forward. Mr President! That is what I wanted to say on this principle.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u131	And the first signatory of the initiative, Mr Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u132	Mr President! Mr Autto did not say what I heard the Minister say when the section was discussed: This positive credit register will be taken to the end of this term as a law, but now there is a problem that the tax authority has declared that their systems will not be able to bring it into force in line with the objectives of the Government Programme already during this parliamentary term. So there are no such resources, apparently there is no machine in the condition that they dare promise. But Minister Henriksson said that the law will be prepared in such a way that it will be in force during this parliamentary term. That was a point raised by the Minister in the ministerial box. Finally, it must be said that, last season, when there were 138 signatories to the default marking initiative and it was representatively equivalent to more than 400,000 Finns, if we have such projects with more than 100 Members of Parliament that do not proceed to a thorough examination, there is some kind of imbalance here. So, just for the sake of appreciation, for the appreciation of our work and for the fact that we are serious about the laws that we have here, with the credentials from the citizens, and about the concerns and aspirations of the citizens to change some legislation that seems to be a problem in the field, I would like to conclude by saying what I said at the beginning that it is hoped that the parliamentary reform working party will now raise this issue at the heart of how we will deal with the legislative initiatives taken by the parliamentarians in this Parliament. Whether they have 30 or over 100 names, yet they should be processed there in the committee so that every congressman gets the work and proposal he has done and it leads to a decision that is held to honor that this sort of thing has been done. And I believe that the level will rise when it comes to the honourable procedure, that there will be no production of those legal initiatives and that the representative will receive feedback that ‘this will not happen again’. In other words, I believe that there will be a threshold for not trying to get into the paper with one that knows immediately that he will not be able to get a hundred names for this, but why don't you pick up some good idea when it can then do a little local politics? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u133	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. Here, too, we reserve an hour to discuss referrals. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Let's go talk to him. First signatory of the initiative, Mr Koponen, Mr Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u134	President! Over the past autumn, reports have been made of several acts of violence in schools. Under the law, the student is entitled to a safe study environment, but this section of the law is not currently being fulfilled. Although school bullying and violence and interference have been discussed extensively in recent years, the problem has not been eliminated. Bullying is on a small trend-like downward trend, but school violence is on a trend-like rise. Bullying is evident in various surveys directed at young people every year and in the media headlines almost weekly. Bullying and discrimination are not a long way from being excluded. ♪ School bullying ♪ [Fresh—The President-in-Office] The main weakness of the service system is the significant under-resourcement of student care, which prevents up-to-date and efficient access to student support needs. Few children dare to tell an adult about bullying on their own initiative, and the responsibility for seeking and receiving help cannot lie with the child or young person himself. Studies reveal worrying messages that young people do not feel that adults are sufficiently involved in bullying. For example, 85 percent of upper secondary school students who responded to the 15th school health survey felt that adults did not interfere with bullying — 85 percent. This figure provides a factual basis for the fact that the current legislation is not sufficient but needs a more robust backrest in the form of a clear binding record. It is clear that there is not enough opportunity for staff to work with pupils in a preventive and timely manner to support the needs of psychosocial support if there are too many pupils compared to the number of teachers and pupils. Fortunately, Minister Andersson has now flashed a binding dimension in the number of school cranes and psychologists. This also requires an increase in training places. Additional resources and increased funding alone are not enough, but the content of teacher training should also be considered, for example, as well as models of student care in schools. Problems must be addressed and the state must use every means to resolve national bullying and violence. Indeed, many Members of Parliament have been making their own proposals for years. None of the initiatives have even progressed in drafting the law. So can we say that we have done everything we can to solve the problem? I hope that now we will finally turn around and contribute to what we feel is important together through a change of laws across party boundaries. This would also send out a strong signal that, in such a serious matter, we are not going ahead of party politics, but of the interests of the child and the young. Pursuant to Article 29(7) of the Basic Education Act, teachers and principals are obliged to report any harassment, bullying or violence at school or on their way to school to the guardian or other legal representative of the student who has committed and is the subject of such harassment. However, it is very unusual that this section is not found in secondary education laws, even though bullying is at least as serious a threat to students in upper secondary and vocational education. Now, as the government continues its compulsory education to cover secondary education, it would also be of paramount importance that the practices of addressing bullying cases be equalised between primary and secondary education. This would also bring equality between different levels of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u135	Mr President! In fact, so - called bullying at school is a form of multiple violence. Insulting words, closing out, and threatening behavior can break an individual’s mind. Violent behavior and abuse endanger the physical health of a child, young and adult, but violent incidents also very often leave a deep mark on the mental health of a person. Bullying is, to a very large extent, an individual crisis that can develop into a traumatic experience and affect far into adulthood. Schools and educational institutions are places where young people spend a large part of their lives — a stage of self-esteem and growth. Schools must therefore be safe environments where children and young people can learn new skills in peace without harassment and bullying. Unfortunately, current news of new school bullying and violence is a sad example of the fact that there is still enough work to eradicate this phenomenon. There is a great deal to be done at legislative level. Among other things, the working group of the Ministry of Education and Culture last year on ‘Prevention of bullyingandpromoting work peace inearly education,pre-primary and secondary education’ has set out a number ofrepair measures for the law, but many of them have not yet been completed. One key problem is that current legislation in secondary education does not provide sufficient tools to identify, address and prevent bullying. In accordance with the Basic Education Act, it would be important to include the obligation of teaching staff to follow up on cases of bullying in the upper secondary school law as well as in the law on vocational education. Secondary staff, teachers or principals should inform the guardian or other legal representative of the minor student who has committed or is subject to harassment, bullying and violence at an educational institution or on a school trip. In the case of secondary schools, the legislation should also be amended so that the staff of educational institutions have tools to tackle harassment and bullying more effectively. Temptation and violence situations often require rapid response and action to ensure the safety of students. At present, principals do not have sufficient means to deal with bullying and violence at school, for example by denying teaching to a student who has committed violence for the next day. However, after a situation of violence, it would be essential to calm the situation as quickly as possible in school so that students, including the victim of violence, feel safe to return to school. A student who has committed violence should have an obligation to participate in support measures organised by student care, for example to find out what has happened with a school psychologist or curator. The problem is that the student’s guardians are not obliged to seek out a student who has caused violence or disturbance during the day. The long - term removal of anyone from school is not a permanent solution. A better solution would be a sufficient number of hospital schools, sufficient resources for support measures, small groups of pupils and, as a result, sufficient time for school adults to resolve situations in time and in depth. This need applies to all levels of education. The evaluation of the national evaluation centre Karvi’s harassment, bullying and violence revealed that every third comprehensive school and upper secondary school lacked an approach to addressing bullying situations and about half of them lacked targeted measures to address violent situations. Moreover, a third had not instructed at all the support of the student, the monitoring of the end of bullying and the cooperation with the authorities. About one-fifth of comprehensive schools and upper secondary schools had not even been instructed to cooperate with guardians. According to the Student and Student Care Act, the educational institution must have a plan to protect students from violence, bullying and harassment, but there is no obligation to implement the plan and monitor compliance and implementation per academic year. There is a clear need for such clearer guidance, and also for this law, and I expect this to be dealt with, and a great deal from the round table of the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u136	Mr President! Over the past few months, we have repeatedly read sad news about bullying at school, and that is why this serious issue has come up for discussion here too several times. Despite the sad news, we need to focus on what we can do about it — and it is precisely what we can do and not just talk about. I believe that the news of recent times is proof that not enough has really been done about it, and hardly anyone is of the opinion that we cannot do more. Our legislation guarantees students the right to a safe learning environment, but it does not define who is involved in bullying, how and in what time. I believe that we should have uniform approaches in the case of bullying in schools, so that children and young people are on an equal footing throughout the country and at different levels of education. I have also been in favour of considering Finland, like Sweden, an authority whose task is to ensure that, in cases of bullying, the matter is resolved without delay and that action is taken to stop bullying. This bill is also a good example of concrete improvement, which would make the situation one step better. I myself can't think of any explanation why teachers and principals should not have an obligation to report in cases of bullying than they do in the primary school. Imagine that you yourself would have to listen to daily barking, to experience exclusion or even violence. Bullying is not limited to primary school, and even at second grade, no one should have to endure and endure such a situation. That is why this bill is important, and it is great that this has gained broad support across party boundaries. Mr President! School bullying and tackling it is extremely challenging, and no easy individual solutions can be found. Otherwise, it would have been taken care of a long time ago. Even legislation alone will not solve this issue, but we, as legislators, must ensure that, at least, inadequate legislation is not the reason why bullying is not sufficiently addressed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u137	Mr President! Mr Koponen's bill is very important and also timely. Bullying doesn't end in primary school. It goes on several times to the second stage, including working life — the whole life can be bullied by a person. It's a real shame. In practice, many people’s lives can be wasted when the joy of life goes by the feeling that they are being bullied all the time, and the bullies get away with it more than once. Vocational education is really important, and if even at second grade, even in vocational school, you experience that bullying and therefore not doing so, it may be that you never go to work again. Bullies don't always realize they pick on you. In a circle of friends, they can do the same pranks and tricks, tease, bark, and mock each other and experience it as a joke to each other, but when they do it to a complete stranger, the object of the trouble can experience it in a completely different way, and they may not understand it. Even second - grade students are so young that they do not realize what its effects may be in the future for the afflicted one. Therefore, secondary teachers and principals should be well trained so that it is already taken proactively, addressed in these bullying cases and then reported to the home. But there is also the fact that in many families, too, the guardians are not interested in what the child does there, which is unfortunate. They simply state that it is his own activity and he bears his own responsibility for it, and those parents take no responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u138	Mr President! In basic education, teachers and principals are obliged to report any harassment, bullying or violence that has come to their attention at school or on a school trip. The guardians of the pupils and pupils affected by the act must be informed. However, this obligation is not enshrined in the law for secondary education. This lack would be remedied by the legislative initiative now before us. Much has been said about bullying at school and it must be taken seriously. When a child pulls his schoolmate out of his hair or a middle-schooler kicks his ass during recess, we talk about ‘school bullying’. Under the same term, there's a whole bunch of other things small people do. “School Bullying ”is a problematic umbrella term. Underneath it can be shown the language and serious acts of violence. Can bullying be a crime? Oh, and, unfortunately, often it is. In schools, illegal acts are too often treated as bullying when it comes to acts of violence. It's not the teachers' fault. This is the reason for the shushing of society, and it has been given to teachers to resolve the matter — ‘manage and’ why do you work?’ There is a war against bullying in many municipalities. The joint cooperation model of the city of Seinäjoki is included in the school plan to protect students from violence, bullying and harassment. It's a good model. It has been developed by grass-roots professionals. In South Karelia, a group of representatives from schools, police, social services and municipalities decided about a year ago to tackle school violence with a sledgehammer. Clearly illegal acts committed in schools were transferred directly to the police or social services, for example. Lawless acts included, for example, assault, illegal threats, theft, or violation of communications secrecy. The term ‘crime’is not used to describe acts as a criminal liability for offences by a 15-year-old child. So this is how the South Karelia model works: If a child under the age of 15 commits an illegal act at school, a criminal report will be made. The perpetrator is directed to a group that includes the perpetrator and the victim as well as the guardians of both, the police and the legal representative of young people. As far as South Karelia is concerned, generally friendly reasoning has worked and the same person has not had to come back to the session. So a child and a youth have been assigned a safe seat. The essence of the operating model is therefore to distinguish between bullying and unlawful acts. Cases that meet the characteristics of crime are too often treated as bullying, little boys are boys-style. A high school student who has put his friend's head in the toilet does not need to be reminded of the Nice School principles, but must be held accountable for his actions. President! Too often teachers try to solve a heavy series of acts of violence that society imposes on them. It's been too much to understand when I should've gone out of my way. Man’s growth is not always ironing, but sometimes also the authority of an adult. President! Thank you for this bill. The attention it brings is very valuable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u139	Mr President! First of all, I would also like to thank Mr Kivisaari. As headmistress, I'm sure there's a long experience of bullying as well. I very much agree with what the representative has said. Even the stone island there presented what could be used as tools in cases of bullying. Mr President! In the bill under discussion today, the school teacher or principal must report bullying, violence, harassment at school or on a school trip. The notification shall be made to the guardian or legal representative of the student who has been the victim of the bullying and the victim of the bullying. This practice must work in both primary and secondary education. I therefore support Mr Koponen's good bill. School bullying has always occurred, unfortunately. According to some studies, it has decreased somewhat but, at the same time, moved partly to another arena, including social media. At the same time, there has also been a more brutal development of bullying. School bullying is a very serious matter and the means to tackle it are still not very good. Last season, I took a bill to set up a school peace agent. This was the idea I had when the representative of Action Kangasniemi said that he and he had proposed this in Jyväskylä. A couple of years ago I put a request on Facebook when I was in the Civilization Committee at the time that if anyone had a desire, they could contact me and talk to me if you were being bullied at school or if you were older than the one who was bullied at school. Well, this is what caused it when I put in my phone number that my Facebook page almost blew up. Because there were a lot of contacts, both e-mails and phone calls, and then in a few cases I went home to talk to my parents and also then a student or a young school student like this. These were cases in which, however, the school had not taken a greater position on this, and this situation had been going on for more than a year or two. And this is the problem that every school is not immediately infected with this situation and even if so, the teacher and principal are not able to intervene. Bullying often even begins in kindergarten, and if not, it can go all the way to that high school, and then the situation will be all the more difficult, not to mention the fate of the person who is being bullied. When adulthood should move on, it may be that those wounds are really deep. Mediation would be the best solution, that is, when bullying takes place, both sides to the negotiating table and as soon as the bullying has begun. It should be addressed immediately, immediately. The connection between home and school is important. Recently, there have also been these brutal school bullyings, which means that we are already physically attacking them, and that asking for a police presence would calm us down if it were possible. The resources should be large enough for the police to get there. So it is possible to intervene in these bullying cases, but it must happen immediately, and of course the root causes are the most important. The bully is harassing someone about something, and if he is transferred to another school, it may not solve the matter. The bully can have huge problems at home, for example, so that the bully must also be familiar with and intervened in his home conditions and situation, and, of course, be tempted. I hope that we can make progress here, because a major report was made by a working group like this last season, and the opportunities to tackle bullying must now be applied for intensively. As Mr Kivisaari has said here, in the most flagrant cases a somewhat tougher procedure must be taken up. Let us now catch a catch and try, during this parliamentary term, to bring this matter to a better end. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u140	Mr President! Bullying and the use of all kinds of violence in schools is horribly widespread and, of course, reprehensible. Fortunately, today, there is not much time to hear a direct understatement of problems ‘boyless boys, girlgirls, yet young people are at school’, but it is still a bit more than that. Such rhetoric should not really belong to anyone’s vocabulary when it comes to bullying or violence. This is a very important bill. Thank you Ari Koponen, Member of the Finnish Parliament. Teachers and principals in secondary schools should therefore also be obliged to report cases of harassment, bullying and violence occurring at school or on their way to school to the guardian or other legal representative of the student who has committed and is the subject of them. Thus, in addition to bullying at school, there is violence in schools. Mr Kivisaari made a good speech about this, and I myself thought I should concentrate on this. Violence is, of course, a crime and should be treated as such. It's a crime, even if the perpetrator is young and the place where he was committed is a school yard or a school trip. Of course, it is always necessary to report violence to the guardians, but also to report a crime and a child protection report. The adult in school must not face or avoid these serious problems for reasons of sensitivity or, for example, fear of a racist stamp. However, violence and other unlawful acts in schools are still too often treated as bullying. It is a very vague and underestimating expression, which has been mentioned much in this Chamber, particularly this autumn. That does not say anything about the seriousness or disgust of this particular act, but on the other hand, there is no definition of bullying in the law. A few weeks ago, the Administrative Committee and the Education Committee held a joint public consultation on bullying and violence at school, and very good expert views were expressed. In particular, I have just remembered the work done in South Karelia's schools to combat bullying and violence, as well as the views of the police heard in the hearing on these issues. We know that these acts often satisfy the characteristics of a crime, and even though a person under the age of 15 is not responsible in criminal matters, he is liable, for example. The primary thing is that these acts are described by their true names. I have in front of me this list of acts that are still often used to tempt me, but which are illegal. Mr Kivisaari also mentioned a few of these. These are a lot to talk about. There is, of course, abuse and illegal threat here, but there is also the dissemination of information that violates private life, an act that fills the hallmark of a breach of communications secrecy. So we can easily see that these are pretty much related to social media. Similarly, an act that fulfills the hallmark of a stealth view: that is, this is, for example, a video recording of the victim without his permission, which is intended to violate the privacy of this person. As Mrs Elomaa said earlier, we find it difficult to believe in the statistics which attempt to define these issues in that although it may be said that some form of bullying in school may have decreased, then we will have these far more cruel acts on which we can read in the papers, and thirdly, this social media, within which so many children and young people are constantly confronted with bullying. In any case, these are illegal acts, and then the smaller-scale ones that cannot be counted in this category are, of course, equally reprehensible and must not be underestimated, should be responded to immediately and given the necessary notice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u141	Mr President! The purpose of an initiative signed by representative Koponen and more than one hundred other MPs is to provide the teacher or principal with an obligation to intervene in known bullying, violence and harassment in the upper secondary school or vocational school in accordance with the guidelines of the organiser of education. The aim is therefore to ensure the best possible implementation of the right to a safe study environment within the meaning of Article 40 of the Upper Secondary Education Act and Article 80 of the Vocational Education Act. I myself have signed this initiative and I would like to thank Mr Kopo for his excellent work here against school bullying and school violence and for his initiative. The right to live a daily life without fear of violence, being tempted or discriminated against equally affects both the youngest members of our society and us adults. Violence and bullying at school is a very complex phenomenon, as we know, which has many different causes behind it, and a wide range of means are also needed to address it. Teachers and adults have a statutory obligation to ensure a safe learning environment for all and to address bullying. Although bullying has decreased in Finland over the past few years, every single act of violence or bullying means that we have failed to fulfil the essential obligations of these children. Preventing and preventing bullying must be the responsibility of society as a whole. In addition to parenting and domestic education, each of us should keep our eyes open and intervene if he sees inappropriate treatment. This is also important because bullying is not limited to the school environment, but happens a lot in social media, for example, as has been mentioned here in the speeches. The Left Alliance wants enough psychologists, nurses and curators for day care centres, primary school and also for another set. In the fight against bullying at school, there are two main things that need to be done: effective practices and resources. Good cooperation has been carried out in many areas of Finland with various authorities and with actors in the third sector. When effective ways of dealing with bullying are found, of course, information about them must also be disseminated. Secondly, it must be understood that in schools and educational institutions there is a need for enough adults who have enough time to find out about bullying, prevent and develop a school culture. Savings in education and education are always targeted at work for the prevention of bullying — unfortunately. During the last parliamentary term at the Ministry of Education and Culture [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u142	Mr President! Tonight we have been pleased to see that there are wonderfully aware and wise representatives in this House. We were allowed to start with Mrs Myllykoski's fireworks, and it seems that Mr Koponen will continue along the same lines. Thank you, both of you, once again, for your admirable work. The bill signed by Mr Koponen and those who supported him is a good one, and it is very welcome to make this obligation to notify so comprehensive. I've been worried about this bullying of children in school. This has not happened personally to me, but I know a lot of cases in my own municipality. As I listened to that debate today during Question Time about a youth group in Helsinki, where probably some are still children, it can only be sad. It is quite clear that criminal liability begins at the age of 15, and the crime committed at the age of 15 is, after all, a crime considered to be committed by an innocent person, which does not lead to criminal liability, of course, leads to a child protection report. And it is worth remembering that even if criminal liability for an act under the age of 15 does not exist under the legislation in force, liability for damages is. If a young person breaks someone’s expensive, rampaging even if he does great material damage, then the family will have to pay, and it may not always be a cheap bill. So here we are in the face of the truth that this world has gone so that children do such works. In his own speech, Mr Kivisaari, as an experienced professional in this school world, explained how it was going, and so it should be, there must be intervention. However, what is extremely worrying about this, as I have just mentioned in Question Time, is that, when, although I am a representative of the Government Party, I dare say, a great many ministers have argued that the authority should act, I think that parents should act on this issue. It's a terrible situation if the child's next of kin is an official. It must be a parent or preferably both, or at least one of them. If the model of its behavior is retrieved from that street, or now we have the ideals of the gaming industry, it seems that it is a blissful... I was once wrong to see a group of kids playing this kind of game, I went to see that a nice game, I thought it was something like Tetris or something like that. No, it was going to use a Russian premeditated advisory device in a war game where people were shot down in the corridor. Whoever made it alive was the winner. Since childhood, such games are played, so the psyche cannot be healthy under any circumstances. A small child and a young child is at home with a father and mother, and of course you have to visit friends, it's obvious, but you have to have the rules, and you have to teach a child from a young age that you don't hit or mistreat a person otherwise, not verbally or by force. We have a model in this country now that if anything happens, then immediately there must be ten authorities, 40 new posts to base. No, we must support the fact that families have that well-being and families take care of their children themselves. Society does not answer — society has only a very narrow responsibility, but if it comes into force through laws, it is a harsh responsibility and many human lives can go to waste after sitting there suffering punishment when 15 years are full and criminal responsibility comes into effect. The place for a small child is at home and not there wandering the streets of cities or municipalities, municipal centres at night, late at night, for example, a 10-year-old child. That child's place is at home. There has been a great deal of error in this country when it feels that society is responsible for everything. The care of the child is the responsibility of the father and mother, and hopefully at least one of them exists. I am very saddened about this, where this Finland has been going lately. It seems that humanity no longer matters, that loving one’s neighbor and paying attention to one’s neighbor have been completely sidelined. When I was a little boy, we were taught that the neighbor was always greeted, polite, of course the boys fought sometimes, that's clear, but then they apologized to the guy and we were friends again tomorrow. We played hockey, skied and lowered the hill, made jumpers, that's how it went with life then, but now it's like the police don't feel like they're going to get involved anymore. There is something very wrong with this country. This is something we need to address, and with our own example we are doing a lot. And those families that raise children — I hope they have the strength, and society must act in such a way that families with children are doing better in this country than they are doing at present. The situation in which we live now makes me very sad. The child's next of kin is the father and mother, never the authority.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u143	Mr President! It is a terrible shame that there is still school bullying and school violence in Finland. It's a shame that one person wants to hurt another knowing it's going to leave a mark. It is a shame that we still do not always know how to deal with those situations when there is violence at school or bullying at school. I would like to thank Mr Kopo warmly for this bill and for submitting it to Parliament. I've signed it myself. The idea of a bill has certainly come out of the opinions of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, which called for this very much. I myself was already writing a draft bill at the time, and that is why I was happy to sign this fast-assessed initiative by Mr Koponen, which is excellent in substance. Research has shown that bullying has decreased, but as we have seen in recent news reports, its forms have become raw. Let's talk about school violence. Much work has been done to prevent bullying in schools over the years, but practices are still very local. At the end of last year, the Ministry of Education and Culture set up a working group to consider the prevention of bullying and school peace. Its final report included, among other things, a number of good measures in terms of leadership and addressing the issue, which will certainly be taken forward. In a few weeks' time, we will be discussing the subject with Minister Andersson in the round table, and in the past few weeks the Education Board has also become a new guide to preventing bullying and dealing with bullying situations in schools and educational institutions. At the same time, the National Board of Education also published the Empathy Pack, which I have personally been very excited about, to support schools. This guide clarifies the roles and responsibilities of different professionals and provides guidance to schools on how to act in bullying situations. However, instead of instructions and discussions, I am anxious to get to the point where we really start to act and implement good practices. Every professional has a duty, a duty, to intervene in bullying situations. Educational institutions must be places against bullying, discrimination and racism, where there is an open, safe and caring atmosphere. It is very unusual that there is no anti-bullying clause in secondary education, since bullying is at least as serious a threat to upper secondary school and vocational education students as it is on the side of comprehensive school. This is exactly what this bill is about. Eighty-five per cent of upper secondary school students — I stress: 85 per cent — experienced in the 2015 school health survey that school adults do not interfere with bullying as they would like or quickly enough. If a safe learning environment cannot be guaranteed for all, the consequences for young people will be serious and could result in exclusion from further learning and working life. This will easily leave a mark on your mind. I cannot help but wonder how many debates we have been discussing in plenary over the past few months on employment, on training for young people, on school leaving, and one of the big phenomena behind it is certainly bullying, including according to studies. There are models, but we need to move from locality to national controlled and systematic activities. I believe that local practices should be better disseminated. I would like to add a few good examples to this debate. I had the pleasure of getting to know Harjula Setement’s groundbreaking work, which has been going on for ten years. They have a Support and Advice Centre for Bullies, where they have developed, for example, a model for after-treatment of bullying. A model like this would certainly be good for every single Finnish municipality and school. Another good example is found in my municipality of Asikkala, where emotional skills are practiced with all children on the comprehensive school side. To recognize your feelings, to recognize your feelings of disappointment, irritation, happiness, friendship, whatever, to recognize your feelings and to know how to write them is already the first step in making it easier for you to walk a common path. Moreover, that tool, which is digital, involves the possibility that through these emotions the teacher and the school principal will also be able to identify the class atmosphere and thus lead it towards the better functioning of children and pedagogy for the better in a preventive way. School bullying is a tragedy that we legislators must also deal with better. We have to get rid of words. This is a perfectly good bill that does not in itself require money but rather care at this point. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u144	Värderade Talman! Tack, ledamot Koponen, för den ox viktiga lagmotionen. Inget barn ska behöva utstå mobbning, och det finns ingenting som rättfärdigar en sådan behandling av andra, och det är vi vuxna som måste sutta stapp för det ox. Det ox gäller under utbildningsstadier och under utbildningsformer. Enligt THL:s jat Hälsa i skolan 2019 förekommer mobbing dubbelt så mycket i yrkesskolorna som i gymnasierna. Det är statistik vi måste ta till oss av. Det ligger på pool ansvar att lära våra barn att osakligt beteende mot andra är förkastligt och kan ha allvarliga consevenser.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u145	Mr President! The trail of bullying is long. It must be addressed. My esteemed representative, Mr Koponen, has signed a bill in June, and I am among them. According to the Finnish Constitution, everyone has the right to life, security, freedom and integrity. Students are entitled to a safe study environment. According to the 2019 school health survey, the number of people coming to school who were bullied during the semester was, of course, less common in the second degree than in basic education. About one per cent of upper secondary school students and 4 per cent of vocational school students felt that they were being bullied weekly. Every case is too much. Secondary students are already on the threshold of adulthood. At that age, a young person begins to take responsibility for himself and is also often responsible for his or her actions in criminal law. Upper secondary schools must also be safe places. Students and students of all ages must understand that actions have consequences and are responsible — including bullying. The purpose of the bill is to provide the teacher or principal with an obligation to address the bullying, violence and harassment in the known upper secondary school or vocational school in accordance with the guidelines of the organiser of the education. Addressing and addressing matters seriously is one of the most important ways. This is also the aim of this legislative initiative. As far as legislation is concerned, public authorities must take all possible measures to prevent the exclusion of young people. Strengthening a safe learning environment is one of these means. It is important to intervene in all inappropriate conduct. We also need to talk about things with the right names. When a student bullied at school is being abused, we are already dealing with extreme bullying — so extreme that it should not be referred to as bullying. It is a question of violence, and the police should always be involved. Just detentions and talking isn't enough. By increasing the number of police officers in different parts of Finland, the police in the regions will have time to work together with educational institutions as school police officers. This is an excellent preventive work. When we increase compulsory education to 18 years, the ideas and content of this bill could be integrated into this legislative process. Such an option should be assessed in the context of the work of the Committee on Culture. Lawless acts in schools are too often treated as bullying. Bullying can be a crime. Young people need to understand the seriousness of their actions. In South Karelia, a model has been developed to protect young people against repression, abuse and intimidation. The police are genuinely working with the school staff and the social side. The model emphasises caring and protecting the overall safety of the school. Schools, which were part of this model, gave up using the word bullying — a lawless act that fills the mark of a crime. These words also told parents and guardians. There was talk of assaults, illegal threats, thefts, violations of privacy, violation of communications secrecy, identity theft, eavesdropping or persecution. Both the author and the object of the act received support and assistance. Violence is a source of ill feeling and marginalisation. It endangers the growth and development of a child and causes mental health problems. When we use the correct names for the actions, we communicate to all parties the seriousness of the matter. The results of the South Karelia model are encouraging. Of the 200 cases of the project, only one new, i.e. again, did a similar act. Schools signal that the model has been a good support for teachers and principals. It should also be used elsewhere in Finland. Let's not leave the teachers alone. Let's work with the guardians and the homes. Encourage educational institutions to develop in an inclusive and collaborative way, as a good climate reduces bullying. Teaching of emotional and interactive skills in schools. Ensure adequate resources and three-step support for student care and special education throughout the school path. It is wonderful that the Finnish National Board of Education has published a guide to prevent school bullying. It states: ‘Prophylaxis is a way of combating bullying. “ Thank you very much, Mr Koponen, for an excellent bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u146	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Kopo very quickly for taking the initiative. That was a lot of speed. Congressman Koponen put the cat on the table, and I don't think he did it by raising his tail, but by gently holding it, and we need this arms and security there, too, at the second stage. Mr Hokkonen well described the need for parents to have that primary responsibility, but we cannot help that society has changed. As far as I am concerned, the obligation that the proposal presents to teachers and principals for the second stage is the right path. Parents must have the knowledge to interfere: if the parent does not know, the parent cannot interfere. In that sense, it has also been interesting to hear about that model in the speech that has produced such good results — perhaps it should also be viewed on that side of the government. Maybe you should copy the good stuff. But as is true, the second stage is a second step, and unfortunately it is another place for too many young people to be tempted, and in that sense we must be able to react to these in society. In that respect, I would like to thank Mr Kopo for his good bill and wish him a thorough examination which will lead to a good outcome. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u147	Mr President! Mr Koponen's bill on bullying and violence in upper secondary schools and vocational schools is indeed very welcome. According to this initiative, the teacher or principal must inform the guardian of both the guilty and the target student of any harassment, bullying or violence that has occurred at school or on his or her way to school. The corresponding article is already included in the Basic Education Act, but not yet in the legislation on upper secondary schools and vocational schools. Mr President! Unfortunately, bullying is common in Finnish schools and educational institutions and has received new, serious forms of bullying, among other things, through the spread of online bullying. A person who is tempted online can be subjected to very bad and widespread humiliation. This year, we have read about a number of cases of violence in schools. In some of these situations the school has even had to have an ambulance called. It is clear that all such cases must be treated with absolute rigour. Everyone must have the right to safe schooling. Mr President! It is also extremely serious to take the robberies committed by the youth gangs. Many of these crimes have been violent, and Finland's decision-makers must do everything in their power to ensure that our country does not end up in the same kind of jama as Sweden, where the robberies committed by youth gangs with the possible desecration of victims have been common for a long time. The Swedish road must not be our way. Mr President! All bullying and violence must be subject to zero tolerance. An individual who has been subjected to them may receive life-long scars or drop out of education and get into difficulties in the labour market, as stated in this bill. Many bullies, in turn — and rightly so in themselves, of course — regret later in their lives the folly they did as a child and as a young person, which would have been allowed to fail completely. It is therefore most sensible for everyone to tackle bullying and violence at the earliest possible stage. Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Kopo for this very good initiative, which I myself have signed, and I wish this initiative success. In my view, it would be reasonable for Parliament to implement the proposed amendment of the law, which would allow a number of bullying cycles to be halted in their initial elements through access to parental information and intervention. The amendment of the law would not eliminate the problem in its entirety, but it would still be a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-12-ps-144.u148	President! As we can see, there is not one solution to this widespread problem, but we need a number of legislative reforms, resources and country-wide working models for the fight against bullying. This is a common issue, and it requires us all across party boundaries.
