ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u2	Congressman Koskela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u3	Mr President! The welfare of the elderly has been neglected by the government. Although public debt is growing at a rate of up to 20 billion a year, the elderly who built the land do not fall short of porpoise. The recipients of a small earnings-related pension have not received the attention they deserve. True Finns propose a reduction in the taxes of pensioners receiving earnings-related pension. We know that family carers are a huge human resource. We also propose a significant reduction in the taxation of informal care support. Family carers do extremely important work and save billions for society. These proposals are fair and also economically sustainable. It is guaranteed that every euro will go to domestic consumption. So I ask the Minister: are you prepared to introduce the Finnish Finns' proposals to improve the position of elderly people?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u4	Mr President! I think it is important to raise the profile of the elderly in this Parliament. In this respect, there were a number of issues relating to the administrative branches of the various ministers. But I think that the most important thing is whether we are going to take action to improve services for the elderly, and in that respect I will answer this question. I note that in the negotiations on the Government Programme we made four major priorities in the area of social welfare and health care. One of them was the emphasis on improving the services and position of older people in Finland — making Finland more age-friendly. It involves a number of improvements, one of which is the most significant one, which has already been made. The representative also referred to the question of improving informal care and improving home services. That is where we are in the process of preparing, and the second stage service package is also on the way in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u5	And now I ask those of you who want to ask supplementary questions to sign up by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u6	Mr President! So it seems that there are no tax reductions for carers or pensioners from the government’s ranks. But at the same time, the government is drastically increasing fuel prices. At the same time, you drive down important peat production that supports security of supply. Heating fuels are part of the same package. Finland has about 200,000 oil-warming houses. According to the House of Homes Association, up to half of these people live in elderly people and pensioners. These are the ones that the government is most severely squatting in its climate pressures, and with the other hand the government is distributing more money abroad. The elderly will receive more spending from the government, but no more income. The granny of the cabin won't thank me now. We find this order of precedence incomprehensible. My question is: will you cancel your planned tax increases and, if not, how will you compensate the elderly and the Finns living in rural areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u7	Mr President! The Government has submitted proposals for next year's tax solutions to Parliament. They are before Parliament. They're not pulling them back from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u8	Mr President! Today is International Men's Day, and the Finnish Parliament Group wishes to wish all men a happy Men's Day, both for young people and parents. [Parliament:Thank you! ] In November, the medical journal reported that the corona epidemic has made life difficult for older people. Home care visits are limited and family carers have not received the support they need. Visiting bans have resulted in a mental burden. Rehabilitations have been cancelled. This applies to carers of all ages and to carers of all ages.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u9	Mr President! We all answer here in Parliament that we care. It is quite clear that what has happened in the corona crisis to users of different services is in part really terrible. For example, the situation with regard to dental care in this country is such that we can no longer direct the workers from dental care to do such things as sampling or tracing to a large extent, because it causes these queues to start to be of the kind that they cannot even be dismantled, even though the government has prepared 450 million for the elimination of the health and service debt. And this also applies to services for the elderly and home care services, and in that respect we have wanted to ensure that, in the midst of this crisis, such a substantial sum is already being set aside for people to receive the help that has been missed in this corona crisis. It is clear that resources have had to be allocated differently to protect human health and spirit, but it must be remembered that at the same time it has been possible for these services to be provided at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u10	Mr President! The government saves billions of euros a year thanks to carers. It is clear that both working and retired family carers should be reduced in taxation. However, social security contributions for the informal care allowance must be maintained, so that the criteria for earnings-related social security and pension and accident insurance benefits are maintained. Every citizen with a common sense knows that there are several groups in Finland that have financial privileges in this society, such as discretionary social security, where some beneficiaries receive commitments for things that ordinary Finns cannot even dream of. At the same time, family carers and their loved ones who paid taxes to Finland for their age live in economic misery and distress. Is this the purpose of the welfare state? Mr President! Will the government take concrete steps to improve the financial position of family carers?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u11	Who's taking the minister? — Minister Pekonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u12	Mr President! We have started a comprehensive reform of social security, parliamentary work and, despite the corona epidemic, the work is well under way. I believe that our social security system is very complex, and I see that the family carers, who are also part of this group, which this complex social security system is perhaps also treating in a complex way, are also part of the study of this system. I very much hope that the working group on social security reform will also bring forward proposals and will review the problems of our social security system and then bring forward proposals from that group. The Finnish People's Parliament Group is also represented in this parliamentary work, and we will then be able to bring these improvements to Parliament as Government proposals. This reform of social security has been scheduled for two governments,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u13	Mr President! Last weekend, Yle published the news that new quality recommendations for care of old people are emptiness. In it, professors blunted the fact that recommendations and everyday life live in different realities. The conclusion was that there has been much talk but not enough practical action. This is indeed an important point of view. The government has not been lulled by the fact that the problems of care for the elderly have now been corrected after these nurses' measurements have been laid down? Even in the Sote reform, you are only talking about administrative structures, even if you should talk about people's services. Finally, it is time to seize the whole of care for the elderly. The focus must be on home care, access to a nursing home, different housing needs, individual life situations, quality of care and supervision. Where are the actions for this whole?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u14	Mr President! We have lived through at least two crises in care for the elderly in this decade and it has been stated specifically that recommendations and practical actions have not gone hand in hand, in that sense the representative is quite right. But when we look at this question, the question of whether we were prepared to do those things during this decade will certainly creep into the heart of this Parliament too. I believe that the main line taken by this government has been that this whole package of improving the services of older people has been taken seriously. As a result of this short period of government, we have already taken a decade of reform here, which has agreed that we can no longer rely on recommendations, but we insist that the position of people who are in 24-hour care is improved so that we no longer trust that recommendations alone are based on recommendations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u15	Mr President! The family carers are doing an extremely important job. Not only is the care of a loved one in most cases the best option for a person, a loved one, but they also make a significant saving for society. The normal place of residence typically pays between 5 and 6 times more to the taxpayer than is the reward that a family carer receives for his work and not all family carers receive the reward. This tax issue is one of the things that has already been on the table here, but it is also important to be able to cope with carers, and we have already talked about these holidays. I would like to ask that, when these peer support groups are extremely important to family carers and receive their funding from the lottery profits, and yesterday Minister Annikka Saarikko suggested that, although this money has been secured for next year, it may no longer be possible to do what can be done to ensure that these family carers' associations continue to receive grants.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u16	Mr President! This issue raised by Mr Satose is extremely important. The intention is to continue to ensure that organisations can do this extremely important work. During this corona epidemic, we have seen in particular how agile organisations have been and how well they have done exactly where they have been expected to work. We in the government are now seriously considering this economic situation in Veikkaus and we are working together with all the ministries to consider how we can secure funding in the future. Perhaps it is also worth remembering why the funding of the bet has deteriorated. We have all wanted to intervene in problem gambling, we have succeeded in doing so, and this has now also caused the funding of the bet to be weakened. There are, as it were, its pros and cons, but we are doing everything we can to be able to think about this Veikkaus funding government together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u17	Mr President! Pensioners in Finland are the only group of income recipients whose income is legally calculated — thanks to the folded index introduced in 95 — [Base Finns Group :Thank you Social Democrats!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u20	Mr President! The decisions taken by Prime Minister Rinte's government on the increase in small pensions came into force at the beginning of this year by Prime Minister Marin's government. I would like to say that we have expressly wanted to draw attention in this government to pension poverty and to the smallest of all pensions. The occupational pension system is also a very important development that needs to be developed responsibly, because we need to ensure that this funding of pensions is also secured for future generations. And I think that the government has made significant improvements at this stage, but all the time we need to pay attention to pensioner poverty, which is much more than just pensions, it is also services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u21	Mr President! Happy International Men's Day and Happy Prostate Cancer Day! In Finland, over 900 men die of prostate cancer every year, and at European level this figure has risen rapidly... [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne :RepresentativeTanus, focussing on the subject of this debate. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u26	Mr President! I think it is important that we talk about all men when we talk about this important issue, and in honour of today's men's day, it is all very well that we can also have a debate on how we can improve the treatment and prevention of any disease that any man may have. And this is precisely the principle that if we invest in advance, can we save on the costs of ex post care? And this is the kind of welfare-economic thinking that this government is now clearly experimenting with on a wider scale with regard to the entire government programme, and it is important that we have these withdrawals on the welfare policy side. One is the one on which the Government Programme agreed that, from the point of view of the prevention of intestinal cancers, this is precisely what is being done: to extend the testing or this screening in advance and then to achieve good results. I haven't said anything since you asked me this in Question Time that this isn't.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u27	Mr President! Here the representative of the Social Democrats suggested that the Finns are not for pensioners. That's not true. We have a very good pension model and it is worth taking it forward now. That was because the Social Democrats were driving the pension down at some point. Everyone also remembers that the May Day Hundred was promised. Well, it didn't come. I think it went to the other countries. [Left: Ohoh!] I have a question like this: Now that there has been talk of carers, 58 per cent of those receiving carers’ support are over 65 years old. The calculated value of nursing with the support of informal care is enormous. If the family care provider had been in municipal institutional care, service housing or enhanced service housing, the cost would be more than EUR 3 billion a year — that is, a huge amount. Are you going to make this tax-free?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u28	Mr President! Mr Reijonen and Mr Satonen well described the importance of the informal care system, and indeed the whole hall has been in the process of developing informal care over the decades. From the point of view of society, it is actually a question of how much the state and the municipalities want to invest in it in support of informal care or, as you suggest, in tax solutions, but not in isolation. Tax support is not free money from something, but it is a political decision that needs to be made about how much the society wants to support informal care. It has been adjusted over the years and the current level is present. There is no idea in the government's programme that part of the income tax would be tax-free.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u29	Mr President! I would like to return to the question on which this Question Time began, namely the reduction in the taxation of pensioners. Now, if you compare the taxes paid by employees and pensioners, especially at income levels between EUR 1300 and EUR 3600 per month, the pensioner pays several tens more taxes per month than the wage and salary earners. This difference is at its highest for monthly income of around EUR 2000. Mr President! I would now like to ask the Minister: is the government going to correct this significant difference? It certainly bothers many pensioners because the cost of everyday life, such as property tax, electricity transmission prices and other costs, is rising all the time. This certainly weighs on the minds of many, and it would be good to have this corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u30	Mr President! Directly to the question: there is no such preparation. The income of pensioners is, of course, affected by the level of pension, the taxation of pensions, including the other taxes, indirect taxes mentioned in Mr Kauma's question, this whole, but the government does not have the idea of making the taxation of pensioners lighter in the programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u31	I will give Mr Koskela, the author of the original question, a question and then move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u32	Mr President! As has been said, despite the government’s opposition, the Finns of Finland will propose a substantial reduction in the taxation of occupational pensions and informal care support and, among other things, the elimination of pharmaceutical expenses from those on low incomes. We are also opposed to tax increases for all fuels. It's very simple. Our performance will make it easier for the elderly. Instead, the government’s proposals and unwillingness to tax cuts weaken it. This is a choice of values. I would like to ask you again, because it is a matter of great surprise to me and also to the voters and to the countryside: why do you not want to improve even the position of those who receive a small pension, even when you are wasting a huge amount of debt money around the world?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u33	Mr President! Even during this Question Time, already so far, there has been a reduction in taxes not only on income tax but also on many other taxes. At our disposal this year, the state is currently estimated to make a deficit of EUR 19.7 billion, [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u34	Next question, Mr Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u35	Mr President. The Coalition Party considers it important that people should have euros in their hands from their wages and pensions so that they are sufficient for more than what is absolutely necessary. That is why we have proposed the withdrawal of the government's household allowance and we are proposing an increase in the household allowance of EUR 5000. We want to support living in the home of pensioners and living in the home of elderly people with a super-household reduction for senior citizens. The Coalition Party wants to support the fact that elderly people can live at home as long as it is their own wish and is safe. Of the users of the household allowance, about 40 per cent are pensioners, and the government’s cut hit the pockets and everyday life of pensioners particularly badly. So I ask Prime Minister Marin: why did you cut the household allowance? Why is domestic deduction such a big problem for the government when it improves the daily lives of older people, all ages, brings work and entrepreneurship and increases tax revenues? Could you now change your position and increase the household allowance?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u36	Mr President! I have already told you that the government will also see this household allowance as a whole in the spending limits debate. We are in a very different economic situation than we are in from the early term, and in such a difficult economic situation we must make a cyclical policy. A household reduction could be one way of supporting employment and supporting economic recovery. That is why we have agreed that next spring we will also see through this whole package of household allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u37	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u38	Mr President! I asked why the government cut the household allowance. And I say that the Coalition Party wants to safeguard the dignity of old age and self-determination for every elderly person. A super-household reduction for senior citizens would bring more and more support services for everyday life. All the Pensioners’ Unions, including the left-wing parties, have proposed the withdrawal of the short-sighted cut in the household and have proposed an increased reduction in the household. Access to services for older people must be increased and not reduced. That super-reduction would also be a big help for family carers, many of whom have been left without help and support during the corona. That reduction would be a combination of direct support and tax relief for low incomes. In other words, if there is no taxable income, you would receive support for the provision of services, and the model is cost-neutral according to Sitra. My question is: why is the government not taking this up now? Today in this Chamber there is a motion for a convention on this, so we will be able to deal with it today. I would ask the government if you could hear the appeal of pensioners. That would be wise.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u39	Mr President! Even before this initiative by Mr Sarkomaa, the government has decided that we in the spending limits committee will explore the possibilities of reducing the household allowance. As the Prime Minister has just said, the main focus is on the impact on employment. However, when you emphasise this super-reduction, I would remind you that, at the moment, the maximum household allowance is well over EUR 2000, the average household allowance is only used for just over EUR 1000. That is, the majority of the users of the household allowance are not even currently using it up to the maximum. In other words, if there were a demand for it, a very large proportion of the people — these more than 400,000 who use the household allowance — could use it more. But the arguments put forward by Mr Sarkomaa are good. They will certainly be taken into account when the government does its own policy in the spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u40	Mr President! I think the big news now was that the government parties have changed their line in relation to the household allowance. I would like to thank both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance for practically saying that this issue is on the table in the spending limits debate, and I understand that it is being welcomed. This is a major change when we feel the attitude of most government parties to this. In other words, the household allowance is a very good thing. It will increase employment, it will reduce the shadow economy. In this situation, we can particularly support the development of the service sector in Finland. And most importantly, when we have talked here about the services and livelihoods of both elderly and senior citizens, this model, which also includes this contribution for low-income pensioners, can genuinely support the fact that older people and senior citizens can get home help, services and thus live longer at home. All in all, I think this is an excellent solution, and it is good to hear that you are now clearly
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u41	Mr President! Congressman Orpo, you understood correctly, but a little late. But this is months old news.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u42	Mr President! As has been said here, there are many benefits to the household allowance. It creates entrepreneurship and, of course, prevents the shadow economy. It encourages the purchase of services, and certainly many citizens are currently using them. We also have, when we have talked about the elderly, about the relatively good-income elderly and there are those who want to help children and grandchildren. When we talk about these amounts, how much household allowance can be used, I think we should also talk about the basis, that is, what all household allowance can be used for. I submitted a measure initiative with many other Members of Parliament to allow for a household allowance so that it could be used for services for children and grandchildren. I would like to ask the government: when dealing with this issue of household allowance, how does it sound to extend this base to services for children and grandchildren in this regard too? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u43	Mr President! Of course, in this report, the government will take all these ideas into account, which Parliament will become. When the Prime Minister and the undersigned spoke of this particular effect on employment, I think that this analysis and study should pay particular attention to the possible extension of the scope of the household allowance in particular to employment and in such a way that it does not automatically flow into it at prices and costs, i.e. I think that this is an important factor in genuinely benefiting from it. I believe that this is best achieved in the very type of services that genuinely have the potential to increase the use of services. Moreover, there is no risk that State aid will be reduced to prices and will lose its effectiveness. I believe that there is certainly something to be found with regard to personal services,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u44	Mr. Speaker! This household allowance is a tax deduction that promotes Finnish work and entrepreneurship, and so the Finns of Finland would maintain it and even increase it. Finnish work and entrepreneurship come to us first, and only if there is more money left, then there will be world healing. The people of Peru have wondered about the government’s economic policy line in that there is always money available when it comes to immigration or climate change. For those themes, you've got a bottomless cashier. In the second year, Finland will take over 20 billion dollars in debt next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u45	Mr President! To the extent that I am correcting the representative, the figure for next year's borrowing is about 11 billion, not 2000 million, which is much higher, unfortunately. If we could make it by 2,000 million, it would be a good thing under these circumstances. This Question Time has the desired tax reductions for income tax, energy taxation and now for domestic taxation, which also comes about through income tax. [Department : to be paid by the State! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u46	Mr President! It has been a pleasure to hear that the government does indeed seem to have turned its point of view in favour, and perhaps we will see that the cuts made by this government to the household allowance are cancelled. I hope that we will also get the super-reduction proposed by this assembly for older people and, as a whole, a significant improvement in the household reduction. [Department : Superrich! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u47	Mr President! This idea must certainly be explored and clarified, but at the same time it is worth paying attention to exactly what I have already mentioned twice, that the aid does not flow into costs and prices, that there will not be a system in which the service provider asks the payer if you are using the household allowance, and then it will determine what the price is. This is the kind of arrangement we should not feed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u48	Mr President! The Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, has well opened up why the increase in the household allowance does not necessarily bring the desired results: simply because the majority of its users are already using it much less than the maximum. It is a good thing that the government is considering how to make the household allowance more efficient, and it is worth considering new uses. My question relates specifically to services for the elderly. People have been very concerned about the elderly here today, and it would make it easier for many elderly people to live at home if they could receive, for example, hairdressing, well-being and massage services at home with a household allowance. Could the household allowance be extended to these services? Hopefully, this will also be considered when the government is considering the future of the household allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u50	Mr President! It's a pleasure to see that things seem to be moving forward here. I'm glad that's the case. The Coalition Party wants us to work together to facilitate the everyday lives of families with children and older people, create purchasing power to use outside the home as well, and thus afford our entrepreneurs services. Create new work and correct the government's error in cutting the reduction. I hope we really see this as an exit from the spring row. It has also been discussed through several speakers that at the moment, on average, less household allowance is actually used than this maximum amount in euros. Of course, it depends on the fact that these deduction rates have been dropped so low that many cannot afford to use the services, and also on the fact that the money must first be put on the counter. I would really like to say that this point raised by Mr Vikman is important that Sweden should be allowed to reduce half of it immediately on the bill that only half is paid and the other half is paid by the State. With regard to the extension of the scope, I would like to
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u51	Mr President! Now I may no longer reply to every proposal that there will certainly be reflection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u52	Mr President! It is very important that we hold this debate on the financial situation of low-income pensioners. I have an example very close to my family. He lives in a stock where a large pipeline renovation has just been made, and the household allowance could not be used in this case. The retired granny earns just under EUR 1000 per month, and the company consideration alone is EUR 550 per month. This means that the cash-settling share of the pension is very small. I would like to ask: how did raising the limit on household allowance affect the hand-held money of a low-income pensioner, and what action can the government and has already done to make life easier for a pensioner in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u54	Mr President! Strong development of household reduction can improve the opportunities for low-income pensioners and family carers to choose services that increase their well-being and improve purchasing power. Support for sports activities, especially for children and young people, is of paramount importance. It is truly alarming that little children and young people are moving far too little today. Supporting hobbies is a key issue. Minister Vanhanen, could it be thought that families would have the possibility of a household allowance in support of physical activity? It must be thought that the household allowance is not just an item of expenditure but also supports businesses and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u55	Mr President! Here too, in fact, the same as the representative just now. For the mute, i.e. the question of whether such sports services are such that should be supported through this, or should the starting point be that yes people have to acquire sports services. I am not an Orthodox in any way, because we have a system of tax support for, for example, sports and cultural services. There are sports and cultural vouchers in which, as I understand it, the tax authorities also contribute to the employment relationship, so this is no stranger to our tax system. I believe that all these ideas will come through this study, but I would warn you that I am not in favour of a solution that will widen the household allowance to all such normal services that we should otherwise use and pay the price for them which is due to be paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u56	I give the floor to Mr Sarkomaa, the author of the original question. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u57	Mr President! It's a great day. The work that the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party has done to ensure that: [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u58	Mr President! As you can see, in this Question Time the answer to this question has, of course, been our Minister of Taxation, Mr Vanhanen, who has started a study on this matter. I hope that this debate, which is taking place here, starts from the premise that, first of all, we must ensure that all elderly people living at home also receive support from society when there is a need for home care. It is the starting point in a country like this where we live. We have made a decision in the Government as part of the Government Programme to invest EUR 45 million in improving the provision of home services. And I think it is very important that Parliament first commits itself to strengthening this basic basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u59	Next question, Mr Laukkanen. — There is another question about this same subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u60	Mr President! It's men's day. It is therefore good to discuss whether men, especially boys, have been forgotten in the debate on equality. According to THL, men's life expectancy is lower than women's, including morbidity is more common among men, the exclusion of young men is more widespread than women, and young men are excluded from working life and education more often than women. The poor learning outcomes of boys are also of great concern and are not sufficiently addressed. Professor in the field has noted that the causes of exclusion of young men are often found in school years. According to him, there is no natural justification for such a large gender gap in school achievement and education. My question to the minister concerned is: Have men's affairs been forgotten in the inter-sectoral feminism of the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u61	Mr President! Indeed, they have not forgotten, but vice versa: If we are talking about education, one of the key objectives that this government has set for the development of education has been to strengthen educational equality. It has highlighted one of the main problems that we have in Finland, the gender differences in skills, and if you look at literacy, for example, they are even one of the largest in the OECD countries here in Finland. The importance of literacy has also been discussed in previous Question Hours. In Finland, two thirds of the boys answered in the last Pisa survey that they only read if they had to. The Government has provided funding, resources for literacy promotion projects for both early childhood education and early childhood education. I personally think it is extremely important that there should be a culture of early childhood education that reads aloud with all the children and also encourages boys to read and encourage boys to do so in the course of their studies and in school.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u62	Now I ask those representatives who want to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u63	Mr President! In the development of service systems, the need for help for men should be better identified. Assistance should be easy to find and on a low threshold, for example when it comes to mental health services. It would also be important to identify the differences in the search for help for women and men. Men have traditionally sought help less well than women. The younger generation will hopefully be different in this regard. I would ask the minister concerned: how do we identify gender-based differences in the development of service systems in order to improve the provision of assistance?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u64	Mr President! Yes, this decade has changed precisely what the representative is talking about. We take more account of what kind of customer is at stake, which means that it also determines how, from the perspective of the research results, the customer profile brings that need, and in that respect we can anticipate it. I think the bigger question is whether we will continue to take the long line in social and health care that when there is a serious need for corrective action, we will be able to anticipate and prevent it from happening. This is certainly the most recent thought that Parliament is also in favour of us being in the service system with this proactive approach. I also think it would help to see how we help to promote the well-being of men, and also to the extent that there is a major issue of equality and inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u65	Irade the Talman! We know that boys in high school are often in difficult situations. Boys usually develop later. However, we have steered our school system into a situation in which time-critical choices have to be made more and more in the past. Even when a high school starts, you need to know what to write, because there's a lot of emphasis on the matriculation examination. Then we have a system of priority in universities, which in practice makes its first choice very decisive. After that, it may be much more difficult to change a school. I would like to ask the Minister for Higher Education: are you concerned that at an early stage these choices will have to be made, and how can this study path be made more flexible from the point of view of boys?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u66	Mr President! I think, representative, that you are taking on an important general observation that it is the case that our entire education system, at the same time, wants to encourage learning paths to be more self-looking and to focus on its own strengths, but as if the reverse is that things have to be chosen in good time and know what they want. And we have all been young and young adults at times, and we know that at a time when the world is open, some of us have very clearly understood our own path, careers, and then there are people who take years to think about what I will become when I grow up. Especially when we are moving towards a clearer world of continuous learning, it is clear that no one is really getting ready for their own education during the whole career. This priority system is still quite recent and its effects are currently being examined. For the time being, we do not have any conclusive evidence that this has led to the system being steered in the wrong direction and has weakened the position of boys, for example, but because this concern has been identified,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u67	The second question to the same subject, Mrs Mäkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u68	Mr President! The Socialist Group would also like to wish you a happy men's day. Men are more often imprisoned and victims of crime, even committing suicide, and unemployment and exclusion are more frequent than men. This is partly about the above-mentioned training problems, but men also seek less treatment, as Mr Laukkanen well said. I would like to ask the Minister for Education: how can we improve men's health problems and seek early treatment, especially with early support during the school path and early childhood education, but also by preventing bullying, the victims of which boys are more often victims?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u69	Mr President! Thank you for your excellent question. In my opinion, the most essential thing is that we make the structures that exist to support the well-being of children in both early childhood education and basic education work as well as our system of support for learning. This requires both the additional efforts that will now be made in the services of student and student care, that they are close, that they can be achieved — they are usually the first professionals to be applied for if there are any problems — and a stronger multi-professional approach to both early education and schools, including other social welfare professionals on the ground, if necessary, and, in addition to all this, this structure of support for learning, which is currently being explored. The Ministry of Education and Culture has set up a working group of experts to review our current legislation and the resources available to the municipalities and to consider what we could do to improve the system, because it is also known that the boys are unfortunately overrepresented among the underprivileged pupils, i.e. this is also a very important whole in terms of equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u70	In the interests of fairness, Mr Mäkynen, I would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u71	Thank you, Mr President. In Vaasa, we have excellent experiences of a project where children are personally confronted in the case of bullying, so that the child’s own strengths are sought out, whether it is a bully or a bully. Such different projects have been particularly successful when children can be met and seen at the child’s own level. I would like to ask the Minister: how can we increase the number of such normal, safe adults in schools so that they can face both boys and girls — but perhaps in cases of bullying it is more often the case of boys on both sides — that such cases can be tackled at the lowest possible level and not the heavier services? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u72	Mr President! With regard to this whole school bullying package, I myself, just as the representative here says, have stressed the need for resources and a sufficient number of adults, safe adults with sufficient time, and then for proven approaches that have been developed in different parts of Finland, so I think that this will partly return to the fact that we have the resources for education at municipal level as well as at national level, and that we have the structures and bodies through which the education professionals will also be informed about what has been successfully done against bullying in different parts of Finland. We are currently preparing a programme of measures against bullying at school and violence at school, involving several ministries — the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Education and Culture — and it is now also intended to introduce new measures into the programme of measures, just what can still be implemented during this term of government,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u73	Next question. Congressman Harkimo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u74	Mr President, ärade talman! Prime Minister, how does Finland benefit and how is it in Finland’s interest that we should be a net contributor to both Italy and Hungary in the corona package? Italy is a country of wealthy people, and the country is poor. In Hungary, the people are poor, and Finland shovels a lot of net money there. To top it all up, Hungary is going to crucify the rule of law, which Finland advertised and razed. Is this gonna be any good, and what's to come?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u75	Mr President! It is quite clear that Finland will adhere to the July agreement, which has also included the rule of law and the rule of law mechanism. In other words, in July, we have jointly decided among all the Member States that the rule of law mechanism and the rule of law will be part of the EU's financial allocation, and Finland will definitely adhere to this. That is an absolutely unambiguous point. As far as the multiannual financial framework is concerned, and also the recovery instrument, it is true that Finland is a net contributor to both the multiannual financial framework and the recovery instrument. That's the way it is. More prosperous Member States are net contributors, and poorer Member States are net beneficiaries. Italy has also been a net contributor to the financing framework, but in the midst of this corona pandemic the country has suffered a great deal, and in this respect Italy is getting more from this recovery instrument than it is paying. But with regard to the multiannual financial framework, Italy has long been among the net contributor countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u76	Ledamot Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u77	Ärade Herr Talman! Rättsstatsprincipen är en hörnsten i varje democracyi, och om man ansluter sig till Europeiska unionen så måste man också binda sig till den.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u78	Mr President! Today we have an extraordinary European Council videoconference. There is a corona situation on the agenda, but certainly this rule of law mechanism and the rule of law will also be ignored, and I look forward to receiving a report from the German Presidency on the state of these negotiations and also on this rule of law, which is absolutely essential for Finland and many other Member States. It is clear that we would not have accepted this overall agreement in the summer, in July, if the rule of law were not very clearly involved, and I would like to emphasise that Finland will stick to this. We will insist that the rule of law and an effective rule of law mechanism are part of the financial framework and part of the recovery instrument. That is quite clear, and that is what we will do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u79	And one more question about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u80	Mr President! This principle of the rule of law is absolutely central. If this package is moving forward, then it is absolutely essential that money be spent on what it needs to be spent on and on what countries respect European rules and values. It must be corrected that this was not agreed at the summit, but that solution was watered down, but in the negotiations between Parliament and the Council, the co-operative MEP, Petri Sarvamaa, led the negotiations in which this mechanism was agreed, and now the essential question is: let us not forget that agreement reached by Parliament. Because it works, and because it shows again that, after this agreement, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia announced that they were not involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u81	Mr President! During the whole of Finland's Presidency last autumn, Finland worked hard to make the rule of law part of this distribution of EU money and the use of EU money, which means that we, as a Member State, have systematically worked hard to ensure that the rule of law mechanism is involved in this agreement. In the agreement agreed in July, this mechanism was in place and it was very clearly agreed that it would be a matter of qualified majority voting when the rule of law was applied, that is, even then in July we had a good agreement. Personally, I do not see that it was a watered down agreement, but it is true that the European Parliament, Mr Sarvamaa, has done a very good job here, and of course we are behind the whole and the solution negotiated with the European Parliament, and I thank you for the good cooperation that Mr Sarvamaa and also our European Minister, Mr Tuppurainen, have done. I know that many times they have discussed this issue and taken this issue forward together, and for that I thank you for your good cooperation. This is an important issue for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u82	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of one hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u83	Mr President! Happy International Men's Day for all and Happy Prostatic Day, Blue Day. This is a big day. I'm now working on my bill to organize prostate cancer screenings for men. This bill has broad support in this Chamber. It has been signed by 141 Members of Parliament, and I would like to express my warm thanks to everyone who has signed it. This really is a matter for all of us. I would also like to thank the doctors, the representatives of patient organisations and the patients who have been supporting the process. This bill therefore proposes the organisation of prostate cancer screenings. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men. Over 5,000 men fall ill each year and more than 900 die each year. The incidence of prostate cancer has increased strongly over the decades. At the end of 2018, there were over 55,000 patients with prostate cancer in Finland. Since the beginning of 2000, the number has tripled and more than 30% of men with cancer are prostate cancer patients. According to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, in 2025, 7,000 men a year become ill with prostate cancer in Finland. In Europe, more than 400,000 men fall ill each year and the death rate has risen rapidly to more than 100,000 men a year. That is why Europa Uomo, the umbrella organisation of prostate cancer organisations, and the European Urologist Association have urgently recommended that prostate cancer be screened in all European countries. Early detection of cancer is extremely important. We need to catch the cancer before it's spread. Prostate cancer is typical that as long as it grows inside the capsule around the prostate, it often does not produce symptoms. That is why the disease often spreads before it causes significant symptoms for the man. Screenings may be carried out by means of a blood test or imaging technique. For prostate cancer, we currently have an easy-to-use PSA blood test. PSA increases in most, over 80% of prostate cancer cases. With advanced MRI, prostate cancer can be detected, described at a very early stage, and biopsies from the area of change can now also be carefully, targeted and accurately tested for cancer and the type of cancer. PSA levels are also slightly increased by the benign enlargement of the prostate due to age and, for example, prostatitis. Prostate cancer screenings have also been opposed by some on the grounds that they cause unnecessary anxiety and anxiety for men and cause overdiagnosis and overtreatment. Years and decades ago, this must have been the case. Today, however, the situation is different. Highly developed MRI techniques and targeted sampling and also a better understanding of the PSA have removed the above arguments for resistance. Once the diagnosis has been confirmed and the type of cancer has become more specific, professional doctors will review the situation and the necessary treatment and monitoring options and decide with the patient. Therefore, treatment and monitoring will be specified as necessary. The treatments have also evolved. Radiotherapy is accurate and precise robotic surgery is also available for those requiring surgery. The situation, knowledge and opportunities are quite different from those of the '90s. It should also be noted that early detection and early treatment of prostate cancer avoid the costly cost of late-stage cancer treatments, and the quality of life of a man can also be better maintained. According to experts in the field, men who are at risk, i.e. men in close families who have prostate cancer at a young age, or many men in close family have prostate cancer on the part of their father or mother, should be screened at the age of 40. Other men should be screened from the age of 50. In Finland, women have had regular cervical cancer screening for over 50 years and comprehensive breast cancer screening, mammography, more than 30 years. Breast cancer affects nearly the same number of women each year as men do prostate cancer. Mr President! In its Government Programme, the Government has strongly emphasised the implementation of equality in all sectors. Prostate cancer screening is important for men’s health, early detection of cancer, treatments and quality of life. We cannot lose more than 900 men every year to this disease. In addition, it is also important for equality between men to have a comprehensive screening of prostate cancer for men as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u84	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Sari Tanus for his good initiative and to all those who signed the initiative — we had a long list of names here. Thank you also to Parliament for this excellent timing that this initiative will be dealt with today on men's day. As Mr Tanus has said here, this is also an issue of equality, and I personally see that today is particularly well suited for dealing with this legislative initiative. It is good to note that the average age of men is, I think, five to seven years lower than that of women. That is one of the reasons why we should take this issue further. Another point of view is that men have traditionally less interest, desire or dare to go to the doctor's office, even if there is a clear need, and when this kind of screening opportunity would be available, then the threshold would certainly be lower for handling this matter. Representative Tanus said that this has been somewhat opposed in some circles on the grounds that this kind of screening would cause unnecessary anxiety and anxiety, but I personally think that the matter is just the opposite. On the other hand, of course, you might ask, when these cervical cancer and breast cancer screenings are performed, do they not cause anxiety? I strongly believe that the greatest anxiety comes from the lack of proper inspections and treatment opportunities. Thank you for your good initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u85	Mr President! Happy Men's Day, everybody! I support the important initiative of Mr Tanus, which proposes to amend the Health Care Act to add the organisation of male prostate cancer screenings to the national screening programme. I would also like to highlight the corresponding initiative of Mr Jokisen at the time. The most common cancer in Finland, male prostate cancer, kills really 900 Finnish men a year. Over 5,000 men per year suffer from prostate cancer, and today it affects more than 50,000 Finnish men and their loved ones. Yes, THL estimates that the incidence of cancer will continue to increase. Men under 50 years of age are also affected by this cancer, mainly in the elderly. Yes, prostate cancer is typical of it to be asymptomatic for years, allowing it to spread with thieves. Prognosis of prostate cancer is good if early cancer is detected before it becomes aggressive and spreads. Early and asymptomatic prostate cancer can be detected by measuring PSA in the blood and should be measured regularly from the age of 45 years. PSA screening and advanced diagnostics allow prostate cancer to be detected and treated before it is too late. However, unlike breast cancer in women and cervical cancer, prostate cancer is not screened at population level, as Mr Tanus pointed out. This is despite the fact that screening could save up to a third of men who die of prostate cancer, as highlighted in the bill. Is the lack of male cancer screening not a serious problem of equality? Mr President! Early diagnosis of prostate cancer may also save the cost of medical treatment when cancer does not get far. Treatment of early prostate cancer is important for men’s quality of life, as it avoids significant side effects. Indeed, PSA screenings have been resisted, among other things, because not all prostate cancer cases develop dangerous during a man’s lifetime and the diagnosis of a kind cancer could increase concern. However, it is not known which cases of cancer develop aggressively and spread and remain in check for a man’s life. The risk of overdiagnosis and treatment has been reduced by advanced methods of further research. Therefore, rationality, the protection of men's health and spirit, and equality efforts are in favour of starting PSA screenings for men's population. Mr President! It is also good to remind you today that the PSA test can and must be carried out without screening at population level. It is not always easy for Finnish men to study their own health, it can be a high threshold to go to the test. It is worth crossing that threshold because it can save the quality of life and life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u86	Mr President! Good colleague Sari Tanus and good colleagues! Happy men's day to all men, Blue day, men's November! Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men and, at the same time, in the whole country. Prostate cancer gets sick every year, as we have heard here today, more than 5,000 men, of whom as many as 900 are currently dying. Too often, therefore, prostate cancer is found too late, so widespread. Our men’s threshold for seeking treatment is often too high. They don't complain about the pain, they say the man has to deal with it, and I'll be fine. Often, symptoms are also not identified or taken seriously enough. The so-called PSA test on blood tests is therefore an effective way of addressing this problem. It is proposed in this bill as a so-called screening of men. By screening, prostate cancer could be detected at a very early stage. For women in Finland, cervical cancer screening has been done for over half a century, over 50 years, and comprehensive breast cancer screening, or mammography, has been done for over 30 years. It is estimated that up to a third of those dying of prostate cancer could have been saved by screening. So, on an annual basis, we talk about as many as 300 brothers who die from this. Therefore, it would be more than important for men to have a rapid and comprehensive screening of prostate cancer. Today, on Blue Day, here in Parliament, we are discussing a bill by our fellow Member, Sari Tanus, and it has been signed by a large number of Members of Parliament in this Chamber. After a while, an event will be held on the steps of the Parliament under the leadership of our friend Jukka Salme, where 900 cemeteries are reminded of men who have died of prostate cancer. Blue Day was not celebrated in Finland for the first time until last year, 19. 1 November 2019, International Men's Day. Thus, the core objective of the campaign is to start screening of prostate cancer from men aged 45 and over, in the same way that breast cancer screening is carried out for women. The main risk factor for prostate cancer is precisely age, not necessarily a very old age, but a 45-year-old age. However, the average age of the sick is about 70 years. Other factors that increase the risk of cancer include overweight, heavy use of animal fats, smoking, and genetics. However, the proportion of genetics is only around 5% to 7%. The proportion of hereditary risk factors may be doubted if more men in the family are diagnosed with prostate cancer and if the disease is found at a significant age, for example at the age of less than 55. Even this genetic threat is worth each and every one of us men keeps in mind and explains our own background. A couple of years ago, a large survey of prostate cancer screenings began in Finland, only a few years ago. So we are very much in the back when compared to breast cancer, but better late than never. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the bill of the Christian Democrat MP Sari Tanus. I would also like to give this bill my full support in this debate. So let us take care of each other, take care of our loved ones, but let us also be selfish and take care of ourselves. Good man power!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u87	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Happy International Men's Day on Thursday for all men: young men, middle-aged men, little older men.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u90	Mr President! First of all, Happy Men's Day also on my behalf and thank you to Mr Tanus for this very important initiative — I have signed it myself, along with a number of other representatives. I would like to make a point here, which Mr Tanus also mentioned in his speech, and this is a matter of concern with regard to the second screening, namely the screening of cancer in women's cervix. It was today that an announcement came out from cancer organisations that several women had hesitated in the spring to participate in this screening because of the corona epidemic. It is now important to offer everyone who does not participate in the screening in the spring a new opportunity to participate in this important screening sample. After all, statutory screening currently extends to women aged between 30 and 60, but should also extend to younger and older women. Some cities, such as Helsinki, have already included the 25-year-old and 65-year-old age groups, and according to a study by cancer organisations, the invitation of 65-year-olds to the screening of cervical cancer in Helsinki has significantly reduced the mortality caused by cervical cancer, so I very much hope that this issue will also proceed along with the initiative of Mr Tanus. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u91	Mr President! As far as I'm concerned, all men have a happy International Men's Day. This excellent bill by Mrs Sari Tanus will receive a warm welcome from me too, and I hope it will move forward. We need more cancer screening. As Mrs Juvonen pointed out in her own good speech, intestinal cancers are often not mentioned at an early stage, although they should be diagnosed as soon as possible, so that the forecast is better, so that these screenings can actually save lives when they are done in time, because many people do not really have symptoms at that early stage. One example of someone I know is that he was about 30 years old when he went to a doctor for a lump, and he was not taken seriously. He had to go to another doctor who then took it seriously and took a chest biopsy and found that aggressive malignant tumor. Fortunately, he sought the diagnosis of the other doctor and did not believe that when you are young you cannot get breast cancer, but that at all ages that cancer can affect us and all ages must take it seriously and seriously when those symptoms come. That is why I myself signed this initiative, that it is important for men to also have screenings and that everyone should be invited to screens so that no one would be excluded. I, too, want to encourage people to seek help on time and contact a doctor as soon as there are symptoms or a problem, so there is nothing to be ashamed of. Ladies and gentlemen, please. This initiative is indeed more than 100, whether signed by 140 representatives, so hopefully this excellent initiative will go to the legislation and we will be able to do these screenings next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u92	Mr President! I too would like to thank Mr Tanus for this good bill and, better still, thank the Bureau for the fine gesture that this issue will be dealt with today on International Men's Day. Representative Myllykoski wants to be in the process of enacting a law that allows boys to be involved in national screening when they age. The threshold for seeking treatment for men is higher than for women. We are a little jumpy-headed and we are trying to cope with our pains in everyday life, and that is why such screening would be so automatic and certainly of particular importance for the cost of society. It's not free to treat 5,000 people with cancer. It is certainly easier to screen by age group with lower costs, and this will result. So it is important to save the fathers and families of girls and boys and close relatives from the grief of losing a relative to prostate cancer. We should now carry out this legal project, for it is in the interests of all of us. With a PSA blood test, we can verify that cancer, and I can say that, in the context of every blood test I do each year, I would ask that this be taken separately, for I am not afraid of that information as much as I am of the possibility of being sick or ill — I would be in treatment earlier and I would have the chance to survive. To this end, I would like to thank Mr Tanus once again for this bill and, in fact, all of us who signed it. So let us bring this law to the finish line, so to speak, and wish families and fathers, boys, a better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u93	Mr President! I too would like to express my thanks to Mrs Sari Tanus for this excellent bill, which I hope will lead — as soon as possible — to the development of legislation and to the improvement of the position of our men. Indeed, this prostate cancer is the most common cancer in Finland, and we are not talking about little things. Over 5,000 men a year get sick and over 900 die from this. Sure, it's a terrible thing for that patient, but let's think about the effects. Well, okay, we men are kind of lonely, that we don't have friends, but when some people may have and have family and stuff, it still radiates to a lot of hundreds, a thousand people when someone gets sick. So you can't just think about these patients, you can also think about the patients who are close to them, so this is a really big deal and it's about a big group of people. It is only a fact that these men of my age — now referred to as “uncleman ” — and perhaps in some professional communities,the idea is that the real man’s first physician is a pathologist. Of course, it's a little dark thinking, but there may be a little truth in it. I have met young men here and elsewhere, and fortunately they are much smarter, better and more decent than we are. Of course, I do not want to introduce myself to other representatives at the moment, but, of course, this age group of ours is little of what it is. Perhaps that would make it easier for the doctor to go to these tests, screenings, when they concern all of us, not to have to order time from anywhere. It could be a big threshold for many of us. So it's all just a test, and then the real man goes there when the call comes. Now that this PSA blood test has been questioned, it is uncertain. Well, I have to say that here at the noise level, however, I would live with this information as if I were ignorant, that is, even if it was the knowledge that there was a tumor. Whether bad or benign would then require further research, but it would be nice to know this and to study it. Here, of course, I hope for equality. Women have had different cancer screenings for a long time — they have to be, and they have to be expanded — but when we men are lagging behind, I would like to see equality achieved, especially as it concerns us uncles, who are not now so media-sexy in discussions, so that we too can even get on an equal footing in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u94	Mr President! I too wish all men a happy International Men's Day, and thank Mrs Tanus for this initiative. This very large number of signatures here also shows that this has been seen as very important. But I would also like to highlight the importance of this Finnish occupational health care, especially for us, for example, or for working communities. After all, at the time of the health checks, men of a certain age are already doing these PSA tests, and I recall that my blood has also been tested for this PSA test since I was 50. And this, of course, protects those who have this opportunity, but when not everyone does, this screening opportunity would then be excellent for Finnish men every certain years. Of course, I wish this initiative success. The legislative initiatives of the MPs have not been very successful in passing this screening, but I really hope that the government will also take this matter into account now and move on with this matter. Thank you for this and for the success of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u95	Mr President! I too would like to thank Mr Sari Tanus for this bill and for the work and effort he has put into collecting this extensive list of names. I signed this myself, naturally. There is still a long way to go to work in health care that I am very practical, could I say, operationally, on this issue, and here I started to count and think on a practical level. We have about one million men over 50 years of age in Finland. For example, if the test were to be carried out in a fully comprehensive manner every three years, it would mean 300,000 tests a year. I have just checked that in the private sector, the cost of the test alone is about EUR 50, which is probably cheaper on the municipal side. Of course, the test is only part of these expenses. But now, if I tell you this 50 euros for the 300,000, we'll get 15 million euros for it. In my opinion, this is a very small cost overall. Of course, some of these men in this recent calculation have already taken this test before, but such figures can be talked about quite meaningfully. There is also, of course, the fact that we must make every effort to ensure that we have better access to treatment than is currently the case. Although this test, just as was said here, can be carried out without a referral at the moment, it will then in practice require access to a doctor and a discussion of these matters and further issues. But to this end, I would like to say that, when I strongly support this, I raised here just now in 2018, that is to say, a scientific study published quite recently, which was not at all the period referred to here, when there was a lot of doubt about this PSA test. Two years ago, a scientific study was published in which 80,000 men were followed in Finland, divided into two groups, one of which was PSA screened every four years and one of which was not. And then, after 20 years of follow-up, it was found that health care costs were about 10 percent higher for those who had not been tested — that is, for prostate cancer in particular — which suggests that when they may then have a cancer, the treatment has come so late that the cost is higher. But when we looked at the 900 who had died of this cancer from the other direction, then the cost was higher for those who had been involved in these screenings. This only dealt with costs. That is not, of course, the most important thing here, because the costs are nothing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u96	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the fact that, exceptionally, a legislative initiative by a Member of Parliament will be dealt with before a government proposal is made. This bill was signed by 141 Members of Parliament, in principle, according to practice, of course, we deal with it as urgently as the government's proposals. This is, of course, partly related to this men's day. Thank you for taking this into account, and thank you, Mr Tanus, for having taken this initiative in law. In a few moments, Mr President, there will be an opportunity outside the House for men's day, in connection with the Blue Day. The theme of prostate cancer will be discussed there in the same spirit as in this room. First of all, these facts. Facts are quite clearly described today, many times. Prostate cancer is the most common cancer of men in Finland. We have over 50,000 men who are currently suffering from prostate cancer in one way or another. About 5,000 cases are discovered every year. The number 900 has become familiar to you, the number of deaths per year. These are the facts. PSA screening will be carried out and will be used to find these cases — if they are found in advance, the better, because then we will have a much greater chance of being treated. Mr President! A single example is not usually proof of a wider phenomenon in society, but a single example is proof for the individual, and I would like to give you a single example: parliamentary elections in 2003. The elected MPs will be subjected to a health check after the election and all male MPs will be subjected to a PSA test. Kimmo Kiljunen was elected to Parliament in 2003, he was tested, and he received a call from the doctor: “You have a critical PSA number. You have prostate cancer.” The number was seven at that point. That's what I'm gonna open. I was immediately included in the treatment measures, and thanks to the Finnish health system, thanks to this extensive way we catch these phenomena, Mr Kiljunen is here, with all his powers of soul and body, at least as far as prostate cancer is absolutely overcome. PSA levels are invisible, they are below zero, and they did not even come as a result of surgery, but as a result of braky treatment, which has left all functional functions intact. Mr President! Immediately after that measure, I hoped, after that experience, that citizens would be treated equally in Finland — not just between men and women, but that other men would receive equal treatment with men elected as MPs. We get this PSA test once every four years. I even know other Members of Parliament who, through this test, have made themselves clear in this same situation, I am not going to mention names. Knowing that, I think it is absolutely necessary here to adopt this bill as a law. As Mr Tanus has already made known to us in his own bill, women have been subjected to these tests, tests and screenings for cervical cancer for 50 years, and mammograms have been made for women in breast cancer for 30 years. It is excellent that they are made, and it is not worth considering this as an equal blood issue, as it were, to speculate on it. It is great that they are made for women, but these things must also be put right for men. This is not just about the costs to which Mr Lindén has referred here, where there may also be clear savings. The question, Mr President, is human health, and that is an absolute matter. It is an absolute matter, and if we can save one human life by doing this screening, because money can't matter — it doesn't matter at individual level, and even at social level we see that it doesn't matter at this point. Great, Congressman Tanus, you've made this bill. I hope that Parliament will be able to deal with this with an accelerated timetable and that this issue of equality will be resolved in this respect. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u97	President! There have been very good speeches in the Chamber, and I will not repeat them. Personally, I would like to thank Mr Tanus for the work he did to get over 140 signatures. It shows the will that he had to move this matter forward. I hope that this initiative will receive an appropriate committee reading, which will involve extensive consultation of experts in the field, and then it will certainly be easy to make decisions. And perhaps to the end, if no one takes these initiatives here, nothing will change either, so thank you, Mr Tanus, for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u98	Mr President! Indeed, happy men's day for all of us, too. Indeed, 900 people die of prostate cancer each year, as has been said several times here. Such a middle-aged uncle would like to thank Mr Tanus for his good work and hard work, you have been able to collect names and speak for it. I also thank you for that too, as Mr Tolvanen well pointed out earlier, that we, especially people of this age class or people of my age, are a bit of an asshole, that we are just pushing away, and even though there may sometimes be a feeling that we should do something and go to the doctor, it just remains for some reason. Personally, I haven't had any problems with this case, but in many other things I've noticed that I should have gone a little earlier, it would have been much easier. Indeed, on behalf of us somewhat helpless men, I would like to thank you for getting this bill through so that it can be put right, because it is so that this amount of cancer, which is every year, is so fierce that we are not talking about any small matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u99	Mr President! I, too, wish all men a happy day, especially now that today it feels like men are being hit from there and here every day. Thank you, Mr Tanus, for this excellent initiative, and I have signed it myself. It is clear that men’s prostate cancer is in the back of diagnosis, for example, compared to breast cancer. I believe, however, that perhaps in this screening, when you read a lot of that material, it is still somewhat questioned whether this is a good method of screening. In 2018, Anssi Auvise's research team has started work at the University of Tampere to look for the way that would be best. So first there's PSA, then there's this kind of 4K blood test, then, if necessary, MRI. At least in the material that I myself have read, it is precisely the kind of overtreatment and the concern that may arise from a high PSA, which is not necessarily cancer, but from hyperplasia or inflammation of the prostate. Then, apparently, medicine has thought that the disadvantages outweigh the benefits, but one might think that if this could be properly targeted, it could be one. And then especially now the fact that the results of this research team are coming next year, when perhaps this sort of three-step screening method could — that is what they're looking at — would be the best way to catch up with this issue, and in the sense that it is really good that this representative of Tanus's bill came at this stage. As long as we do not now have the screening to screen men of a certain age, for example, on the basis of the material I read medical material if there are any problems, that is, problems of urination or other, then we should go to the doctor. And that is precisely the problem with men that they think that there is nothing to be done here, that there is no rush, but it can certainly be recommended at this point tremendously well. I thought it was an excellent campaign in a medical chain, where they recommended this kind of stubborn care. I think you could try something like this for men now to launch, so it might be easy to go to the Järähuolto even with a friend. And in my opinion, you could even buy gift cards for these, that there's a good Christmas tip for men. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u100	Mr President! I would like to say a warm thank you to all the Members for their good contributions and a warm thank you for their many thanks. This has actually been quite confusing to listen to thank you, because I personally think that each of you who have signed this bill has been doing this bill. This is a common issue and a joint effort to really push this screening issue forward. As has been said in this bill, this is where the practical organisation of screenings, the target group and the screening periods are asked to be more precise in the Government Decree on screenings. Indeed, we have magnetic research methods very accurate but there are not enough machines at the moment. At the moment, we have the PSA blood test, the value of which for hyperplasia, a very good type of prostatic hyperplasia brought with it by age, actually rises somewhat, which means that the blood test is such an alarm, and then we need to specify that situation. These studies are under way, and we hope that there will be a blood test, for example, that will be able to find those feisty, bad cancers. If we are thinking about cervical cancer screening, which has indeed been over 50 years, it started with papa screening, or a loose cell sample. It is still used, but we have had a long time, for several years, a HPV test, such as a virus test, which reveals a certain type of viruses, which are most often behind the cancer change, and if that test becomes a plus, then the papala will be further specified and further specified with the biopsies. In other words, this development and process will, of course, go forward, and if, and hopefully, there is a more accurate and sensitive and always correct method for detecting prostate cancer, then it can then be modified and introduced flexibly in the regulations. The most important thing, however, is that we also get the men into the screens. It is precisely so that the threshold of control even when there are problems is many times really too high. Although I myself am a specialist in gynaecology and childbirth, I have also worked in the urology, or so to speak, in the men's department, and for a long time also in basic health care, that is to say, men's affairs and family matters and, in fact, women have dealt with them a great deal. This initiative is first and foremost for our sons, to promote the health and well-being of our fathers and grandparents, our spouses, friends and many men. I very much hope that this initiative will move forward, and thank you very much to all of you who have been involved and who will continue to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u101	Mr President! There are quite a few Members who have already thanked Mr Tanus for this good bill, and I agree with them. After all, there are 141 of us from all parties, which is to say that this is a matter common to Parliament as a whole, and it is quite rare that so many names can be collected for a legislative initiative. As has been said many times here, male prostate cancer is the most common cancer in Finland, and more than 5,000 men become ill every year — and 900 men die each year. It would be very good if these screenings were now made available to everyone. And, as is evident from this text of the bill, these screenings, which will be carried out on blood tests, could cure or save 30 percent of the men. Here, among other things, Mr Tolvanen pointed out that sometimes these also become false alarms, but that he is among the men who prefer to accept that false alarm rather than the fact that he comes too late to know about the illness, and I believe that quite a few Finnish men share that view. I myself remember when, about 10 years ago at the Espoo Social and Health Board, we talked about this and wondered whether it should be introduced at urban level, and there were such things that sometimes, when men get that reading, the high PSA value, they even drift into rather radical solutions prematurely, because they are so frightened about it. In fact, these misanalyses have probably partly been the reason why these screenings have not yet been carried out, but, as has been said, I agree with a number of other people here who have advocated this bill that it is certainly worthwhile to introduce it. And I hope that the government will take this on its own programme and want to take this good initiative forward, particularly in view of the men's day, I would like to say this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u102	Mr President! There's been a lot of reference here to this men's day, and it's been seen that this is a man's thing. Of course, it's a men's thing as a disease, but of course it's also a women's thing, because we're, as I said, fathers, grandfathers, mates and so on — it's our common thing in society. This is not really a question of equality either from the point of view of why it has remained from the outset that PSA tests are not regularly carried out on men, but instead these screenings are carried out on women with women's diseases. This is due to the fact that experts have disagreed slightly on the content of the PSA tests in relation to the fact that this PSA value may be elevated due to the fact that there are other problems in the prostate that raise the PSA value than cancer, but also because all men over 70 years of age have elevated PSA levels, it is also related to ageing. And in that sense, urologists in particular have often stated that it is not worth taking care of such a thing, because that cause of death in time for men will in any case be someone else than this prostate cancer, even if it is elevated. And that is why it has been considered that it is economically too hard for society to go and manage these elevated PSA values. But, as has been said, techniques have already been found here to ensure that, if an elevated value is found, it can be systematically monitored and seen with the current technology whether it is critical or not, at least now that we are in a situation where we should actually allow this to go to the PSA tests in such a way that it is not voluntary. I took that example of mine right there. I certainly would not have gone to the PSA test with the information I had and with the feelings I had — there was no reason to go — but the fact that it was compulsory in this situation and made compulsory was now an example of how these things could be handled. And that would mean that this is done regularly, whether once in three years or once in five years, over 45 or over 50 years of age, and this will certainly save many lives. As I said, there is no price for human life when we talk about health — that is the first thing for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u103	Mr President! The only reason I came here is because I wanted to thank you from the bottom of my whole heart, Mr Tanus, for taking this bill. This is how great it is for men's day to celebrate such an act of equality and action for the health and well-being of all men. You are the one who has set this thing in motion, and you have had a broad front for it. Too rarely in this Parliament are we going to go ahead. It should be that, when we agree, we can sign, we can praise, we can give feedback, and this is a moment like that, and you have had a whole lot of it now. I would have written a speech, too, but I didn't, and I'm so sorry. I would have spoken in favour of this too, but fortunately I can now at least thank you for this. And, indeed, 900 men die each year, and 900 candles are lit in that courtyard. Everyone should go there after this conversation. Mr President! If it is possible to continue this debate after other points, then I would be happy to make a genuine speech after this, but it is, of course, at your discretion if that debate ends now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u104	Thank you. — The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u105	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 33/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u106	Mr President! The Finns are the defender of the Finnish working population. The working population includes both employees and entrepreneurs. There is not one without the other, and these professions should not be put against each other in this political speech either. This cost support for businesses under discussion, number two, will contribute to the relief of entrepreneurs' lives in the midst of this corona pandemic. Compared to cost support one, cost support for two is better match resolution. One of the good things about this is the removal of the lower turnover limit. In the case of cost support 1, we proposed a reduction in the net sales threshold, but the government did not agree to it at the time. I'm glad we've learned from the mistake. The extension to eligible costs and the better consideration of business entrepreneurs are also good here. It is also a good thing that previous aid received does not affect this second cost subsidy. But there's still some run-ins. More than 12,000 companies applied for cost support. Only 28 percent received support. 84 per cent of the companies applying for aid were small and 78 per cent of them were rejected. The most common reason was that the aid amount was less than EUR 2000. The same drain defect is the cost support in this second one. That is why we proposed that the lower limit for the amount of aid should be reduced to EUR 1000. It was suggested, among other things, by the taxi industry, because there are many self-employed. In other words, there are tens of thousands of self-employed people in Finland who are easily below this EUR 2000 threshold when applying for support. There are other defects, but they will survive our protest. In this Chamber, this EUR 2000 border may sound rather small, because we are well-earned, we parliamentarians, but for a small entrepreneur, it is also a large sum of money of less than EUR 2000. I would have liked to have heard a signal from this Parliament that we care about them, but this does not seem to be the case, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u107	Mr President! I have been dealing with this corona subsidy in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, just as I was the first version, and I must say that improvements have been made to this aid model. Just as Mr Vallin said there, among other things, there has been a reduction in the turnover threshold, there has been an extension of the eligible costs, there has been the possibility of including the employee's wage costs in the eligible wage costs and there has been a abandonment of coordination with other interest rate subsidies. Unfortunately, however, it is as Mr Vallin said in that regard that the EUR 2000 limit has been the problematic issue in the case of interest rate subsidies for one, because most of the wreck decisions have been caused by the fact that they have fallen under it. In fact, on the one hand, it also reveals that quite a lot of our companies, especially small enterprises, are those who live on very low incomes, and for them, too, the EUR 2000 is important, and in that sense that limit could well have been considerably lower. Another major problem that I see here is that areas where these restrictions on public law, such as travel restrictions and assembly restrictions, have been more sensitive than usual, do not in any way receive the treatment required to reduce their turnover. These areas include, for example, the event sector, the fair sector and the travel agency sector. The situation is that turnover has by no means decreased only a little, but they may have lost as much as 80% to 90% of what it was a year ago. In fact, I would have liked — and that was also the reason for my objection — to have paid special attention, additional support, to these sectors where the fall in turnover has been so significant, because everyone understands that they are in a very different situation from those companies where turnover has fallen by only 10-30%. However, the good thing about this report is that one paragraph was taken in which this particular situation was stated, namely that if the company ‘explainedly in its application that the business invoice required by the sector had taken place by other means than through registers the automatic use of information by the public authorities,this information should be taken into account in the calculation of the conditions and amount of cost support. “ And this sentence, Mr President, is precisely the one that is directed at:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u108	Ärade Herr Talman! Förslaget gällande en fortsättning av kostnadstödet är mycket viktigt för att hjälpa finländska och åländska företag att överleva den ekonomiska krisen som coronapandemin harskat. Det finns flera betydande förbättringar i det nya kostnadstödet, vilket är glädjande. Tack till regeringen för dem och till ekonomiutskottet för ett snabbt och effectivt arbete med det är lagförslaget. Det nya stödet lämpar sig bättre för Lite mindre företag även om minigränsen för stödet kommer att fortsätta reserve 2000 euro. Stödet kommer också att kunna sökas av företag som redan fått stödet under sommarens utdelning då man nu tar i bruk nya Jämförelsemånader. Taket för det sammanlagda stödet är dock EUR 800000 per företag, Vilket är EU's statstödsreglers gräns. Samtidigt tar man bort kopplingen till de sted som examplevis Ålands landskapsregering har bevilat, Vilket ur ett åländskt perspectiveiv är oerhört viktigt. Det är rimligt och rätt och gör att det blir en klar förbätting mot sommarens sted som det visade sig att krävde att man tog åländska stöd i beaktande trots att detta inte alls var klart i själva lagtexten. Det var också skillnader mellan den svenska och finska lagtexten, något som justitiekanslern nu håller på att granska, vilket är oerhört viktigt eftersom det ur ett rättsperpektiv naturligtvis behöver vara samma lag på finska och på svenska. Ärade Herr Talman! Det är mycket viktigt att detta stöd kan sökas av åländska företag trots att undantagstillståndet inte längre råder. Åland har strabbats mycket hårt av krisen som slagit mot service, sjöfart och tourism — mycket viktiga branscher för Åland. Därför är det motiverat att Åland är inkluderat i detta då arbetslösheten fortfarande är rekordhög med åländska mått mött, på över 10 percent. Därför kommer det ox vara mycket betydelsefult, på samma sätt som för företag i hela landet. Många företag Lieutenant intensivt på att ansökningsprocessen hos Statkontoret ska öppnas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u109	Värderade Talman! Vi behandlar alltså regeringens proposition till riksdage med förslag till lag om ändring av lagen om temporärt kostnadstöd för företag. Det handlar alltså om vivi ändringar och en fortsättning på det temporära kostnadstödet som ju har diskuterats är i många repriser sedan coronakrisen slog till. Det som var trevligt under våra höranden i utskottet var att egentligen under vi hörde ansåg att man nu kommer att träffa betydligt mer rätt beträffande de företag som bör beviljas stöd.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u110	Mr President! Mr Strand has just made an excellent speech, and I would like to add my voice to these comments and thanks. In fact, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy had very extensive consultations, just as was the case with the first reading of cost support. The fact is that, in essence, this government proposal responds to a great many critical questions and criticisms which remain unresolved with regard to the first cost support, and, just as Mr Strand said, the accuracy of the hit is now considerably better. These key changes, which have led to this, are the fact that the lower limit for turnover was actually abolished and that additional extensions to eligible costs were made, the wage costs of business name entrepreneurs were included in the eligible wage costs and indeed the coordination with other interest rate subsidies was abandoned. Certainly one such big, worrying example of one of the problems of this first round was very unclear instructions. There were a lot of entrepreneurs who were not sure whether they could even receive this support, and this is something that we have tried to pay particular attention to this time. But then it is well known that, for example, this classification of activities, which is, of course, necessary for payment purposes, still leaves certain entrepreneurs and businesses so to speak out of sight. That is precisely why the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy pointed out that this support must also extend to the business sector, for example in the event sector, which has actually suffered from the virus situation and fulfils these conditions, but whose actual situation is not clear from the information and registers at the very disposal of the authorities. This is precisely why we required that, if the company is able to verify the cause and effect of the fall in turnover precisely because of this corona virus, then the Treasury is indeed obliged to take these applications into account and this discretionary decision can be taken. This is a very strong common will of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy that this should also be the case. But all in all, of course, in this general situation: We must remember that when we talk about cost-benefits, the starting point has been that these are temporary and, of course, the common wish is that this disease situation should be reduced to such an extent. Under no circumstances do we want such support schemes to become a permanent system in relation to this situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u111	Mr President! It's gonna be real quick. I too would like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for its excellent work. Of course, it is worth taking into account Mr Kauma's criticism of what came from there. Of course, in this situation, I regret why such a package was not made earlier, because it would have made many companies easier. Unfortunately, the previous package left many different companies behind, and this will now compensate for it. Of course, it would perhaps wish the government had better work in the first place, that it would not have to do things like this, in a certain way to repair the shops, but it is good that this has now been achieved, and this is certainly much more effective cost support than the previous one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u112	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 33/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u113	Mr President! The report on this government proposal is very brief and succinct. I understand that in itself, but I would just like to draw attention to the fact that this is a pilot law which has already been launched in 2005 — that is, a very long experiment — and which is still to be continued. The question here is that these pilot laws have made it possible for home services to be carried out, on the one hand, and home nursing to be carried out under the authority of the same institution, regardless of how the organisation of the municipal social and health services has otherwise been carried out, i.e. home services and home care to be combined with home care in these pilot municipalities. In 2007, the pilot municipalities provided the Ministry with an assessment of the success of this experiment. The estimates were very positive. Since then, these reports have not even been collected, but this experiment has always been continued, and the reason why this experiment is still continuing is that we are waiting for the reform of the social economy to be completed, so that this should then be dealt with. I personally hope that this very long experiment will finally be concluded. If, for some reason, this social reform is going to fail, then I would like this matter to be dealt with separately in the future and become a permanent practice of this law. [Second Vice-PresidentJuhoEerola : General debate concluded, and the Parliament approves... [SariSarkomaacalls for a statement ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u116	Well, just this once.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u117	Mr President! If that's still possible, please. I'm sorry I was so late.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u118	Honored Speaker! I just wanted to say that I support the proposal that Mr Räsänen has made here. When you look at the government's social welfare proposal and the related questions, they are so complicated that it is good to be prepared that it will not go through as such. It is important that the government and the minister of responsibility now hear that this is one of the legislative projects which it is important to take forward and, above all, to have the improvements to the home care we are waiting for. They were also discussed by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health when this draft law was discussed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u119	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Let's go talk to him. — Mr Vestman, first signatory of the initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u120	Mr President! Work should always be worthwhile, especially in the midst of the economic crisis, but work in Finland is not profitable for everyone, especially if you are working too hard for society. [Department :Oh! ] The legislative initiative under discussion provides for the temporary abolition of the income limits for study aid for 2020. The purpose of my initiative in April was to respond specifically to the need for seasonal workers, but it has been delayed in Parliament, and the government has not taken up this initiative in any other way. In the event of travel restrictions, the entry of foreign labour into the country has become more difficult. In the midst of the crisis, we need those who are capable of working in those areas where there is work. It is likely that there will be a shortage of labour in seasonal work next year, as has been the case this year, for example, in primary production, and that income limits should be abandoned for next year due to the interest rate and economic crisis. Hardworking students are a significant workforce in Finland. According to Statistics Finland, more than half of the adult students are employed in addition to studies. In 2018, this meant up to 200,000 employed adult students. On the other hand, this means that more than 200,000 adult students do not work alongside studies. Today, the student may have other taxable income in addition to the study grant in the calendar year the amount called free income. Each student has a personal income limit based on the number of study grant months the student spends. The annual income limit shall be calculated in such a way that revenue may amount to EUR 696 per month of support and EUR 2078 per month of non-subsidised income. As a result of too low income limits This year, Kela has recovered more than 40,000 students from student financial aid because they have been too busy and have worked too hard. This recovery will be carried out even if the student has made sufficient progress in his studies. Low income limits create artificial scarcity and poverty for students. There is no work to be done, no welfare to be born, no tax revenue to be generated. This makes absolutely no sense. Mr President! The Finnish Research Institute recently examined the increase in the income limits of student aid and concluded that a substantial increase would improve the net income of general government by approximately EUR 6 million per year. Thus, public finances would be strengthened, work would increase, and students' living standards and well-being would improve. Indeed, a year ago I submitted a bill for a permanent 50% increase in the income limits of student aid. This would mean that a student who spends nine months of support could make over 18,000 euros a year. However, this bill is buried here in Parliament's deliberations. In August, officials from the Ministry of Finance supported the proposal to increase the income limits by 50%. The Federation of Finnish Student Unions also supported this proposal this week because it would increase the well-being of students. The increase in the income limits of the student grant is included in the Coalition Party's alternative budget. For some reason, however, the left-wing government has not been prepared to raise income limits and thus to ease the plight of students. Why on earth did the government knock out a motion supported by government officials in the Ministry of Finance? Isn't it absurd to maintain this miserable system? Even if students are not interested in opportunities and well-being, is this not even studied for EUR 6 million more tax revenue? Is it true that when billions of dollars go into debt, millions of dollars no longer matter? I guess this is what it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u121	Mr President! Mr Vestman's initiative proposes the temporary abolition of the free income limit for students. It would also be possible to proceed with a permanent abolition of the income limit. The third option is to increase the income threshold for students by 50%. All are good and supported proposals; the scale is only slightly different. As far as student support is concerned, Mr Vestman should be listened to. In November 2020 the Federation of Finnish Student Unions decided to make it its objective that students who increase the student allowance could make EUR 18000 a year without having to be affected by the income. Students are experienced experts in our future and student support. You might want to listen to the students. The proposal to increase the student allowance by 50 per cent was included in the Coalition Party's alternative budget for 2020. I believe that this objective will also remain in our future alternative budgets. It's worth listening to the convention. A study study by the Finnish Research Institute on the option of the income limit was submitted to Sampo Terho, then Minister, on 17 January 2019. According to the study, raising the annual income ceiling from EUR 12,000 to EUR 18000 would increase the tax revenue of the state by EUR 5.9 million per year. It's worth listening to the employees' research department. For employers, the preferred job seekers are those who have been fluently studying behind them and have already had work experience for several months. Working in addition to studying improves capacity and communicates hard work. It's worth listening to the employers. I hope the government hears you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u122	Mr President! I remember when Mr Vestman's good bill was submitted in April this year, that this also sought relief from the seasonal problems of many farms, such as berry farms. Well, the summer went well, and fortunately those seasonal workers were also brought in, but yet the need for this bill has only been emphasised, for example, in the care sector, where the need for student work at the moment would be enormous. Of course, the main reason for supporting this bill is the weakened financial position of students in the midst of this corona crisis. For many, the spring corona closure extended the completion of studies. On the other hand, the corona crisis took out internships or the summer work needed for winter expenses. That is why I think it is time for society to receive students and to give up the income limits for study aid completely temporarily for 2020. Of course, Mr President, after this corona crisis, it might be appropriate to have a debate on this rationality of the income threshold for student aid at all. At least it does not make much sense for the student to be punished for working alongside his studies. For example, in 2018, as many as 40,000 — that is, 40,000 — were recovered from the student aid. I wonder whether this makes any sense or whether, for example, the competent human resources of Kela could be used better in something other than the supervision of overwork by students.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u123	Mr President! In fact, hard work, study, work and entrepreneurship should always be worthwhile, but as has already been said, unfortunately this is far from always the case in our society. Mr Vestman's initiative is very welcome and I very much hope that this initiative will proceed. The three previous speakers have well explained why this initiative is so necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u124	Mr President! The debate on raising the income limits for student aid is important, and it is great that this initiative will bring it up again. Let us hope that this law will come into force next year, because the corona crisis does not seem to subside for the time being. Access to student support significantly limits students' opportunities to work. It is not right for students to be punished for seeking a better livelihood. We must prevent student poverty and not maintain structures that force it. For many, monitoring income limits is stressful, and human error may pose economic challenges. Higher income limits would facilitate students’ daily lives and support their livelihoods. This would be particularly important at a time when distance learning and reduced social contacts are causing mental stress and loneliness for many and thus increasing the need for mental health services. We have to trust our students, that they want to study and graduate. Study support is hardly a reason for anyone to study. Raising the income limits for student support would be very important for our students and an indication that we want to prevent student poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u125	Mr President! Mr Vestman has made an excellent legislative initiative, which addresses a very topical and painful issue, namely the income limits of student support. Mr Vestman has presented a solution to this question of seasonal workers, which has been very difficult to resolve here in Finland during the interest rate crisis, and what better proposal would have been than the fact that Finnish students would have been exempt from the income limits of this year's study aid so that they could have been encouraged to work again, and this issue could then have been resolved. Of course, it is regrettable that this initiative is only now before us and it is a matter of delay, but, as Mr Vestman well said in his presentation, this problem itself has not disappeared at all. And yet, when we still have a long time before the interest rate is here among us, it is very important and justified that this debate should take place in any case. Mr. Speaker! I think that in Finland, society must encourage work and entrepreneurship in every situation and that in all situations hard work, work, effort and progress is always more encouraging and rewarding than staying in place and not trying and not leaving. As a result, many governments in a row have decided to reduce the tax burden on labour, and it is precisely work that has been sought at all levels of income that has been affected. But, Mr President, there is one group in Finland whose case has been forgotten in this respect, and it is students, because the income limits for student aid have been increased more than ten years ago. And this would mean that, in practice, in terms of student support, this consideration of the income threshold for students has been tightened up all the time, that is to say, one year after the year, it is even less profitable to work than it has been in the past. And in this regard, I would see that it would be entirely justified for the income threshold for student aid to be permanently increased after this crisis phase by the 50 % which has been made by an excellent proposal from the Finnish Labour Institute, which also proves that this change would in fact be positive in terms of public finances. And therefore, the ball is actually transferred to the next government of the country, and we ask when the minister responsible for student aid will now take over this matter and bring these necessary proposals to the House so that the more than 40,000 students who have supposedly worked too hard will continue to be encouraged to work and carry on their studies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u126	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. A debate on the 9th and 16th issues will also be allowed in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u127	Mr President! In post-interest Finland entrepreneurship and services do not rise by themselves. It is the big picture of why the Coalition Party wants to take up the question that in Finland, after a new start in Finland, there would be more opportunities to take advantage of each other's help, i.e. as a service, to buy work when you cannot, to buy work when your own time is available in a different way for the benefit of society as a whole. The Coalition Party wants us to create purchasing power for Finns by doubling the level of household allowance. The Coalition Party wants Finns to be able to afford the services of entrepreneurs, so that the everyday life of families with children, the everyday life of the elderly, is easier than at present. Well, there has been a debate here today in Question Time about whether it is an OD case if the household allowance is radically improved, or whether it is more a reason, for example, for Sweden's services sector to be clearly wider than in Finland, to employ much more, hundreds of thousands more people than in Finland. In Sweden, the maximum amount of the household allowance is EUR 5000. We've got 2400. We propose that it be raised to this EUR 5000. Sweden is actually raising it to EUR 7000. The experience there has been positive. Why? If I open this with an example: For example, if we have someone who receives EUR 3500 in gross wages, we will say Sanna, who thinks we should do a surface renovation at home but not enough time: the rush years. Then we have Ritva, who works, wants to do renovations, doing it through Remontit Oy. Is the current situation really reasonable for us Finns, when the situation is that in practice Sanna would have to earn EUR 430 in gross wages in order to be able to buy the painting work from Ritva, from which Ritva gets 150 euros? So that the Ritva comes and receives 150 euros when painting or repairing Sanna’s apartment, Sannan would have to make practically 430 euros of gross wage, that is, almost three times what Ritva will have to pay for this part of Sanna. This is a Finnish tax wedge. If you buy a service from which the service provider receives a hundred and fifty dollars, you will practically pay more than 300 euros between taxes and charges. This imbalance that a Finnish cannot afford to buy another Finnish job, which will then be without work, when there is no money for this, the mismatch to repair the household allowance has been built up, not for the purpose of being just some toy of the rich, but for this it is a question that ordinary medium-paid sandals will be able to renovate their apartments and settle for the service work for which there is a demand — a wider basis for the Finnish labour market. Well, is this just for the rich, that's what the crowd drives? In our initiative, we will remove EUR 100's exclusivity. This would make it possible for even a small one hundred dollars a year to get this reduction in the service they buy from the company to be reduced by 60 per cent. An even more important part of our proposal is that, as in Sweden, Finland would bring this reduction directly to the time of purchase. When Sanna wonders if I can afford to buy the repair work from Ritva now, so many times, especially at a low-income end, I'm sure you'll wonder that even if you get a deduction from this in one year's time, can I now put the 430 on it, so that the Ritva will finally get a hundred and fifty dollars on it. But if, as in Sweden, this company could immediately say that I charge only half of the value of this work, it is enough that you pay half the value of the work, then we will get a tax deduction from the tax office, and I believe that quite a lot more would go to use the services. Ritva would have quite a few hours more than at the moment, quite a few Ritva would be at work that is now out of work, and quite a few Sanna would be able to cope with their peak years, perhaps as an elderly person with their own problems, and so on. Why don't we do what we did in Sweden? That's what we've been wondering. After all, this government does not usually do things that the tripartite is not in favour of, but there is no problem here either. Rare theme because the Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK) and the Confederation of Finnish Trade Unions (SAK) have jointly proposed this autumn to extend and improve the household allowance — together. Few things are agreed today, but they are. Now it's just a matter of government. There were indications today that something was going to happen, but at the same time, the Minister of Finance's speeches got darker and more difficult as Question Time progressed, so we obviously still need to work to get enough pressure up in this pot. What we are doing here today is precisely creating pressure for more and more middle-income Sanna to be able to renovate her home, to be able to provide services, to be more independent as an elderly person, and, on the other hand, to have as many Ritva as possible be able to work and get their own economy in order. Let's get the payroll going around in Finland. Let us not prevent the fact that to pay Ritva EUR 150, you actually need your own salary of EUR 450. It doesn't make any sense. It does not bring wealth to Finland that this tax wedge prevents the purchase of services. In the big picture, the question is really about this whole new beginning in Finland. The details of business subsidies have just been discussed here with regard to the new business support package. We have all agreed to reduce the number of bankruptcies this year, with the aim of helping businesses also through artificial respiration, but I think we all understand that subsidies do not replace business. We need elements here and now to help buy the services that can be purchased even during the corona period and, above all, as soon as the situation gets easier next year, we could get our services sector started, the small entrepreneurs who keep these devils in the renovation work, before they come into the box on top of the company. I hope that the government will also dig up these issues when considering Vesa Vihrälä's spring recovery report. We have heard too many times that recovery is only effective when it is done by increasing government spending. But, in fact, the Greens' report assumes that, in the medium term, tax recovery will be even more effective than expenditure recovery, and in fact it assumes that it should roughly go to fifty-fifty, and that is how it is in Sweden. Again I ask: has Sweden made the wrong choice? Or would it be the case, however, that there is experience of a successful growth of the service sector, that there is experience of how clearly fewer Ritva will be long-term unemployed and clearly more Sanna will be able to take advantage of the services, that it will also be able to hold on to working in line with its own training through the use of these services over the peak years? Mr President! I really hope that next spring there will be the turning point that the Prime Minister here today implied that this same government, which first cut the household allowance and, unfortunately, made it increasingly possible to use these services, made it virtually more and more accessible to those who are well-off, and that this same government will hopefully also learn from what has been seen and dare to learn, turn this sled so that it genuinely improves and does not get bogged down in small adjustments, but makes this benefit useful to the middle-class Finnish, the whole population, with the proposals that we propose in our legislative initiatives and which I also described here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u128	Yes, and Mr. Sarkomaa. — I shall now repeat what I have just said, that is to say that a debate on the 9th and 16th issues relating to the same law will also be allowed in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u129	Mr President! Today's Question Time was indeed a glimmer of light. It was a great thing that the government admitted that a mistake had been made when the household allowance was cut off, and hope was given that we would finally move forward with what the Coalition Party has suggested, that the household allowance should be extended, that the household allowance should be reformed so that as many Finns as possible have the opportunity to purchase services and thus boost employment and entrepreneurship. The bill I put forward concerns the seniors' super-household deduction. First of all, it is good to say that 40% of the users of the household allowance are pensioners, and that the government's mistake of cutting the household allowance was particularly hard on the purse and everyday life of the elderly and was in fact the opposite of what the government has promised, i.e. to improve the services of the elderly and to make it easier for pensioners to live. Last autumn I received an association of pension unions, and they agreed together that the cut in the household allowance should be cancelled, and they said that an increased household allowance should be built for seniors. The seniors of all parties and we in the assembly want to hear the seniors. We have made a presentation based on Sitra's calculations. That bill, which I am proposing, is proposing a completely new household allowance, a better household allowance, a super-household allowance, as we have crossed it in the assembly. It would increase tax subsidies for taxable persons over 75 years of age for household services from the current 40% to 70%, propose an increase of EUR 2400 for the share of work and a waiver of the current EUR 100 share of ownership. Of course, these figures can then be seen when the law is being prepared, but based on these figures Sitra has made its own calculations, and this whole would be cost-neutral. The first legislative initiative I have signed, which is the joint initiative of the Assembly, is closely linked to the initiative of measures proposing that people who are 75 years old and whose income taxes are not sufficient to make a household allowance should be eligible for direct aid of up to EUR 1200. This is completely new, and this is also included in Sitra's calculation that this entity would be cost-neutral for central government finances. In other words, this model would make the household allowance a combination of direct support and tax relief for people with low incomes over 75 years of age, and this would make it possible for seniors to benefit from this super-household model for people over 75 years of age, and this would really make it easier for senior citizens to buy services. If we look at the figures that Mr Mykkänen has successfully presented here in his own excellent bill, then the super-household model of seniors, for example, at an hourly rate of EUR 40 per hour, would have a price of EUR 12 per hour and the government model would have a price of around EUR 27, which would significantly increase the purchasing power of senior citizens. As I said, this super-household deduction initiative is based on a study published by Sitra in May 2015 and its in-depth calculations, which have indeed been made by Statistics Finland, and it is important to underline that this is internally cost-neutral. The goal is indeed employment, economics and entrepreneurship, but we always want to look at people and the well-being of people in the assembly, and we really want every senior to have the opportunity to live a life of his own. It is particularly important that we bring new opportunities to seniors, because so many family carers have been left completely without help and support during the corona period. Home care customers are increasingly older and need more help, and fewer and fewer have received it. More and more elderly people at home are memory sick and live alone without help. And what is truly regrettable, of course, is that the government's proposal for a carer's statute was a torso, and the government's own explanatory statement also states that it is endangering home care, and there is no solution to the issue of home care. We look forward to the overall reform of the old-age services law, but there are a number of options that need to be added, and this super-household allowance for senior citizens is one of them. The elderly need more help and must not be cut, as the government does indeed. We in the meeting, Mr President, want to secure good care and services for every elderly person, and this Sitra model would complement and replace existing forms of support and services. In our view, living in the home of elderly people must be supported as long as it is the will of the elderly and it is safe to live at home. What I would like to highlight strongly here is that Sitra has decreased – there have been former officials of the Tax Administration, senior officials, civil servants of the VM, civil servants from the Municipal Union, and this expert committee has calculated that if this super-household reduction were introduced and would indeed shift the use of heavier services, that if the need for increased service housing for around 14 elderly people were to be transferred by half a year, it would already bring cost savings of around EUR 330 million. This is not a means of saving money, but it is a way of making better use of society's resources so that older people get better services and thereby release resources to do something else, because it is very sad that people are not getting help and therefore getting institutionalized. Mr President! It is good to remember that this household allowance can also be used to buy home services for your parents and in - law parents. This is a very important issue. This reduction would certainly also help in peak years and would make life easier for many families, because we Finns want to take care of elderly people, our own loved ones, parents, in-laws, but more means are needed than is currently available. To conclude, of course, this proposal would be a good way to strengthen the foundations of the welfare society, because this would strengthen services, entrepreneurship and employment. And when things were raised here in the sitting that were wanted to be covered by the household allowance, I say at the end of the day that I believe that home rehabilitation should be added. Household allowance can be used to renovate the house
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u130	Mr. Speaker! In Finland, the socialists are in the government, as we know, and their policies continue to discipline employees and entrepreneurs by increasing taxes. The government’s reduction in the household allowance is therefore a tax evasion. This tax evasion therefore also affects pensioners, as has been said here today in the speeches. At the same time, the government's economic policy continues to waste the public sector. It will be continued with debt money. For example, there will be an endless amount of money in the case of immigration costs or excessive climate action. Unfortunately, Finland will not rise from this swamp by means of this ongoing additional taxation and taxation. On the other hand, Finns are on the side of Finnish work and entrepreneurship and therefore against tax tightening. In the past, the tax deduction has been possible up to EUR 2400, but the government has reduced it to EUR 2250. True Finns consider this decision of the government to be bad and want to correct it. The True Finns also suggest that the percentage of the household allowance to be deducted from the cost is increased from 40 to 50 per cent in terms of compensation for work and from 15 per cent in terms of wages to 20 per cent. The household allowance has made it possible for many Finns to have their homes renovated. The reduction has also contributed to the use of cleaning help at home, which may be of great help to older people in everyday life. The reduction in the household sector has positive effects on employment in the sectors concerned, in particular those requiring low levels of education, and on the fight against the informal economy. Indeed, a household reduction is a good example of a form of deduction that has a positive impact on the formation of tax revenues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u131	Mr President! Global pandemics have caused uncertainty and concern for families and homes in the future. Now if you ever need help and support in everyday life. The household allowance allows Finns in many different life situations to buy the services they need. Due to the economic crisis caused by the Korona virus and the weakening of demand, many companies are also in a difficult situation in our country. There has been a significant increase in payment difficulties, and even as the pandemic continues, the large wave of company bankruptcy is a real threat. In order to prevent that, we must do everything possible. Further action is urgently needed to facilitate the situation of businesses and increase overall demand. That is why this bill to increase the household allowance is extremely important and should be adopted by Parliament in a timely manner. The reduction in household income effectively supports employment in the service sector. At the same time, more and more Finns would be able to use different services to facilitate their everyday life. Increased consumption of services would benefit not only economic recovery, but also our business structure, and would bring more prosperity to our country. A higher household allowance would be excellent news for citizens, micro and small entrepreneurs and the entire SME sector. Small businesses play a very large role in employment in our country, and it is growing. Many entrepreneurs operate in the services sector covered by the household allowance and suffer from the economic impact of the interest rate. This bill would improve their access to business and employment. There is broad support for an increase in the household allowance in our country. An illustrative example of this is the joint statement by the Chief Economists of the SAK and the Confederation of Finnish Industries, in which both central organisations called for a substantial increase in the household allowance. According to them, the increase should come into force from the beginning of next year, as a larger household reduction will support economic recovery and employment. I hope that this widely supported and proven means of action will be taken and the bill will proceed and be adopted. We urgently need to mobilise all possible means to facilitate both family life and the situation of businesses in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u132	Mr President! Here Mr Mykkänen has very well presented this alternative to left-wing government policy, which so far has only led to years after years to come under this government, first of all, people have lost less of their own pay, that is a fact. Fuel taxation has been tightened, indirect taxation has been tightened, the overall tax rate has increased, and incentives to work in ordinary working people have been weakened all the time. Of course, you may ask whether this is a justified course of action. We don't think it is again. We believe that working should always be more profitable than staying at home. We believe that Finland's economic growth must be accelerated, not slowed down, as this government has done. And, Mr President, this government decision, which has been implemented a year ago, that the household allowance has been cut, is, in my view, an unfortunate example of what kind of policy this left-wing government believes in. After all, household reduction has been an excellent way of supporting this domestic demand, the employment situation of small entrepreneurs, service entrepreneurs, and reducing the informal economy. And now, on that basis, Mr President, we have made a significant improvement on the household allowance and, in particular, on the so-called super-household allowance for those over 75 years of age, with which we want to import it, and encourage older people to be able to obtain more help, more services at home. And I would particularly like to mention this EUR 1200 per year for the most low-income pensioners, so that they too can make use of this tax advantage — if that is what you can say. And this is a particular change in the current situation, because at the moment the most low-income pensioners will not benefit in any way from this reduction in the household. [The President knocks ] Mr. Speaker! To conclude, when we look at the actions of the ruling left-wing government in Finland and the ruling left-wing government in Sweden, the difference is like night and day. In Sweden, a demarcated government has decided to take advantage of tax recovery. It has decided to significantly increase the household allowance, because it believes that these measures will have an impact on employment, on how people get to work, on how to revitalise the domestic market. And the question is, how can it be that the government of Sanna Marin in Finland does not see these same benefits? Instead, taxation is being tightened, domestic deductions are being cut and indirect taxes are being increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u133	Mr President! There have been a lot of good speeches below. Perhaps a few comments that may not have been taken into account: At present, about one-fifth of SMEs in the services sector have reported that they are at risk of bankruptcy in the next three months. For this reason too, the extension and increase of the household allowance would be extremely important in this very period of time. The second point is that there has not been much talk of a grey economy here. In fact, unfortunately, the grey economy has raised its head in this corona period, and that is why raising and extending the household allowance would certainly be a source of friction, something that the current government would certainly want to do in its own right. Which means it's in favour of this, too. And thirdly, Mr Mykkänen's message is, in fact, a Swedish example of the fact that they already had an increase in the household allowance and are now re-emphasizing it, which indicates that this has been an extremely effective way of helping these services companies in Sweden. I would therefore like the present government to give a precise explanation for this example of Sweden and then draw conclusions from it and possibly become involved in it. Very nice speeches were made today from the government's side that they might be looking at this again in the mid-term debate. Now that this is indeed the common position of the EK and the SAK, I hope the government will take this seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u134	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are also debating proposals in the alternative budget of the Coalition Party. Of course, it would have been expected that the Minister for Finance would have been here to hear and have a debate on our proposal. Of course, it has long appeared that the government has no interest in this matter at all, but at least the faithful warrior, Mr Kiljunen, came. I hope you'll take this message forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u139	Even though the name was mentioned, at least we don't start a debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u140	President! Finland is in a difficult situation because of the corona epidemic, but also because many important reforms have not been completed. But Finland is a great country, this is a chance country, we will certainly manage if we seize the opportunities. It would now be possible to start doing this common policy and to take action that will bring more prosperity, work and entrepreneurship and tax revenues, and this extension of the household allowance is one such thing. And indeed the Pensioners’ Unions have hoped for this, and what did the government do? He went into surgery. I now hope that the government parties will correct this mistake, as we did a little. But who would benefit from this? It is always good to see the benefits of the action, how Finns would benefit from this. Of course, Mr President, it would benefit service buyers who would receive more support than the current system and would be able to choose exactly what help and support they want. For example, seniors are experts in their own lives, as we people usually are. It's important that you get help for exactly what you need. The municipalities would benefit from this. As the use of household services increases, it would reduce the demand for municipal services for the elderly and would also shift or reduce the need for institutional care, and that is what we need. This would certainly complement, and also partially, the home help, and many times this could be even cheaper than the very expensive home service of the municipalities. This would benefit service-selling companies and professionals who would gain more employment opportunities and be able to employ more people, this would become work. And the household services are produced and purchased just up the street. This would stimulate the local economy in many areas where the new work might not come so much, so that this would be a great opportunity for all regions around Finland. Well, this would benefit the old people's circle, families, families. We want to help our neighbors — not always for work or otherwise — so that this household allowance can then also be bought for its own parents or in - law parents. This would contribute to the well-being of families. Finally, the State and other tax recipients would receive more tax revenue and then we would have the resources to develop the Finnish welfare society. And that eradication of the black economy was one of the key elements of the socialists when you were in the opposition, and now it is obviously forgotten — hopefully not. Here, Mr President, matters which are why these initiatives, which have been put forward by the Group of the European People's Party, should be put in place. And I hope Mr. Kiljunen will take these to the government. When you finally take the employment measures, there would be two complete packages that could then be brought in as government proposals, or we could take these legislative initiatives as such. I hope the government will support these proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, the 45 minutes allocated for this debate will be filled during the next speech, but I am prepared to give a little more time if, on the basis of points 9 and 16, when they deal with this same dossier, you can delete the requests for your intervention which have already been made, so that a little longer will then be held here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u142	Mr President! In Finland, a high-tax household allowance is necessary because taxation eliminates people's opportunities to buy services and thus reduces work and well-being. There is now a pressing need for new work in the service industries and relief in everyday life for Finnish families. That is why the household allowance must be increased and extended, as proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party in these legislative initiatives. An increase in the household allowance is needed in order to mobilise Finland. We want the ceiling for the household allowance to be raised from the current EUR 2250 to EUR 5000. We also propose that the maximum amount of the allowance be increased to 60% and that the maximum amount of the compensation be increased to 40%. We also want to remove the EUR 100 share of ownership, and we also propose this super-household reduction for senior citizens. In a world of lighter, reasonable taxation, where people would be allowed to keep a larger share of their own salary, there would be no need for a corresponding household allowance. However, Finland is one of the world's most heavily taxed countries, and a very special problem is the high tax wedge. Take, for example, electrician Pekka. Pekka is an average-income wage earner who leaves his overworked euro in his hand after taxes and payments, on average, about half. Therefore, if Peka is offered the opportunity to work for a longer period of time on a new electrical installation job, she will probably get about 10 euros for an hour’s work. Wife of Pekka Alice's a nurse. She's supposed to work the night shift. Pekka and Alice’s child would therefore need a nurse to continue their installation work. Although a nanny on the company’s payroll is paid a lower hourly salary than Peka, the amount of hourly child care billing in the capital region is up to EUR 25. In practice, without a household allowance, Pekka would have to work 2.5 hours to be able to pay his child a nurse for one hour. Due to the increased household allowance However, Pekka could reduce the price charged by the nanny by 60 percent. In practice, therefore, Pekka would be able to hire a carer at an hourly cost of just EUR 10 instead of the EUR 25. There is a bit of wedge left, but it might therefore be economically worthwhile for Peka, who is on average income, to stay on that installation job — if these increases in the household allowance proposed by the assembly were to be carried out. Mr President! Unfortunately, for the first time, the left-wing government really cut the household allowance — reducing both the compensation rate and the maximum amount of compensation. This has been not only a tax increase but also an absurd cut in the well-being of families and older people, as well as employment and entrepreneurship. As stated in the legislative initiative submitted by the government party RKP during the last parliamentary term, which proposed a significant increase in the household allowance, ‘The household allowance is a good example of the form of deduction that contributes to the formation of tax revenue,promoting entrepreneurship and improving the employment rate. Previous estimates have shown that the reduction in tax revenues due to the reduction in household income has been self-recovery as employment and hence tax revenues have increased.’ Well, when you read this, you would wish that the RKP was really on the board — and for a moment, the RKP is on the board. Vad har het? Vart försvann Haglunds Borgerliga linje? Mr President! A reduction in household income would be the rationalisation that our country's services sector now needs. By allowing people to make more decisions about their own money, we dismantle obstacles to work and activity. Extensive public expenditure alone is not a sustainable line for Finland in this situation for the economy and employment. The everyday example of Pekka tells of the need for a household allowance. At the same time, empirical research data provides support for raising the household allowance, as is now known in Sweden, among others. The Swedish Demari Government, which recognises the facts, is actually raising the household allowance to EUR 7000 as a result of the economic crisis. This is smart. It would also call for our Prime Minister's party to follow the Western neighbour's example.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u143	Mr President! There have been very strong speeches from the assembly. Representatives of the Coalition Party have spoken this way, and Mr Heinonen specifically gave the signatory strong epithets: a loyal warrior of the government and advocate of the elderly. President-in-Office, these wordings make the signatory very humble. It feels like there's more to the role than you think. Mr Heinonen also continued that, according to his view, Sweden has better social democrats than Finland. I think there was the same reference in these few speeches, in Mr Sarkomaa's speech and in Mr Vestman's speech. Apparently there are better greens and downtowners, as was said. I was just wondering if there might be better Screams in Sweden than there are here in Finland. There are two of us here, at least in Parliament, I don't know how they are there. But comparisons between neighbouring countries were interesting. That probably had nothing to do with the 1970s when Olof Palme was Prime Minister of Sweden. I assume that he did not respond exactly to what Mr Heinonen is referring to here. I don't know anything about this change. On the other hand, I am thinking about this content, the household allowance, which has been strongly highlighted here, and Mrs Sarkomaa has expressed it strongly and also Mr Vestman and Mr Heinonen. As far as this black economy is concerned, the better functioning of the tax system is concerned, there is no doubt that this reduction in the household will have positive effects in this respect. It is clearly rooting it out, making work in households more transparent, and this is an irrefutable argument. On the other hand, I was wondering about the biggest problem this household reduction has, and the biggest problem is the distribution of income. You cannot benefit from the household allowance if you do not pay taxes. Only if you pay taxes can you benefit from it. And when Mr Heinonen referred to the fact that even to the smallest, this household allowance is to be directed very strongly, so when we go to less than 1000 — and in fact to the pensioners, to whom Mr Heinonen read me, and I am happy to feel this way — there will be no tax on the pension of less than 1000 euros, so that it will not matter to these people who receive the lowest pension income, and in this respect it will now be necessary to consider how far this household allowance system is intended to make life easier for older people and other people in general. It may be that we have other forms, as the Minister of Finance has said here many times today. I see the positive effects of this on the eradication of the grey economy. This tax problem is real here. In other words, this is a system that is cheaper for people with a low income than for people with the lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have just said, I would ask you to delete them from points 9 and 16 of your request to speak, and then we can come to an end here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u145	Mr President! First of all, we must thank the House in this respect, that we are obviously in the same direction as the basic issue, that the household allowance is valued and considered reasonable. I hope it will be reflected in the decisions that will be taken in this Chamber next year, of course, as early as this year. First of all — when I am not sure whether Mr Sarkomaa, who knows this even better, will be able to get the floor here — Mr Kiljunen will simply clarify that, in fact, our model of a super-household reduction for people over 75 years of age includes EUR 1200 for low-income pensioners, which would therefore be paid in a form of aid if there were no taxable income. For technical reasons, it is not included in the articles of this bill that have been tabled in the name of Sarkomaa, but is a separate initiative of measures and is part of our alternative budget. But this has been taken into account, as in the Sitra model on which it is based, that low-income pensioners, who do not even have taxable income, should also be included in it. On the whole, it is good that the representative: Mrs Kiljunen's speech also raised this issue of the shadow economy. That is also an important reason why the household allowance makes sense: I argue that if the household allowance is abolished, then, in fact, through the increase in the informal economy, tax revenues will by no means increase in proportion. It is, as it were, reasonable for society as a whole to make legal work competitive with illegal work without tax receipts. There are still difficulties, but it is much better oxygen when we have had the household allowance, and it would be much more comprehensive if the initiative of the assembly to double the household allowance were taken. A bit of concern was the fact that, although it already seemed pretty good in Question Time that there was a large government will on this, the Prime Minister also said so, so we already noticed that in social media Minister Andersson, as it were, withdrew and said that this is in the interest of the well-earned and if this government is making changes, then we have to tighten taxes on high incomes or improve the basic security of low incomes that they require for this sort of counterweight. I just want to say here, too, that I hope that we have some patience here and see if it is a treat for the well-earned if we have that Sanna, who earns EUR 3500, needs renovation or other help in her busy years and actually has to make EUR 400 in practice to buy a job that the person who works for it, if it is bought through the company, will eventually have EUR 150. Is it anyone’s advantage, more of a middle-income Sanna than a Ritvan who works for renovations, that we have this multiple tax wedge in between? Or is it actually the case that Sweden has figured out here — whether it is the Swedish demos or others — something since the '70s that in this way the market economy can work as hard as possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u146	And now, ladies and gentlemen, this point received more requests to speak, but the next item was not empty. And when we are on these scheduled matters, the debate and the discussion on this point will be suspended and the proceedings will be resumed at this sitting after the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u147	We will now resume the debate on item 8 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. Mr Vestman, absent — Mr Sarkomaa, absent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u148	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u149	Mr President! Indeed, I did not have time to remove that reserve, but in the previous paragraph I presented this bill, which is a super-household reduction of senior citizens in the alternative budget of the coalition. I would like to say here that this would indeed lead to a reduction of 70% and a reduction in own resources. This legislative initiative is closely linked to the initiative. I noticed that Mr Kiljunen had not yet noticed this, and I would like to stress here that when you promised to deliver a message to the entire coalition, it is indeed proposed that people over 75 years of age who buy household services, whose income taxes are not sufficient to make a household allowance, should be eligible for direct aid of up to EUR 1200. Thus, this part of the household allowance would be a combination of direct support and tax relief for low incomes over 75 years of age. When you look at these two, this new entity, which comes to the low incomes, and then for those over 75 who pay taxes, this super-household allowance, Sitra has calculated that this would be cost-neutral. In addition, if this were to shift the transition to heavier care, hundreds of millions of euros would be saved if this were to happen. So this is a really good whole, and I wonder why the government would not take this forward. I would like to say that all the Pensioners’ Associations have proposed and appealed to the Board of Directors to do this increased Sitra model: do not cut the household allowance, because seniors are experts in their own lives, and they also want to choose what help and support they receive at home. The seniors are very different. You can't put in one service what seniors need. I very much hope that the government will now become familiar with this. This is published in Sitra's 2015 report, on the basis of which this bill for the Coalition Party has been issued, and if it were not for this corona, I would now say to the government, to all the government parties, that you should go to Sweden and get to know each other. Fortunately, however, we do not need to go there; we can get information about what has been done in Sweden. Indeed, Mr President, I would like the government to understand what has been understood in Sweden that it is impossible to lift itself out of the hair. In other words, we cannot simply use debt recovery to increase public spending and think that Finland will be saved from it. We need to take this type of action like a household allowance, which puts the wheels of the economy in motion. And if you do not believe Sweden, you do not believe us, you do not believe the other government parties, you do not believe the Pensioners' Unions, then you could believe Mrs Greene who, in her report, has said this, in the long term, the changes to taxation are also those that are building a well-being society in a sustainable way. I really hope that now the government parties will take this for themselves, and when we hope that the employment measures will finally come, then there will be one that is indeed a specific measure. This also contributes to the well-being of Finns of all ages, and this brings work and entrepreneurship all over Finland. I'm hoping for the support of the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u150	Mr President! It is very interesting, as Mr Mykkänen has just said, that this has already become a controversial issue in the government. I personally checked that this is really the case. Minister Andersson has commented on Twitter that nothing has been agreed on this except to bring a report and that other measures must then be taken to compensate for this tax advantage, which favours high incomes, if this is to be done. Clearly, there is disagreement within the government on this issue at this stage. I welcome these initiatives, and I say that, in general, the Finns of Peru support the reduction in the household. In the alternative budget of last year, before any corona crisis, we pointed out in a far-sighted way that household reduction has been regarded as an effective way of increasing household purchasing power and the vitality of service provider companies, and that it benefits and affects ordinary working families who need professional help, for example, in home renovations, and that Finland's economic outlook now rests almost entirely on domestic demand. Even then, we were already heading towards the economic crisis, and we saw that such means must be developed to support small Finnish entrepreneurship and increase the purchasing power of households. Especially now, in this situation of interest rates, we are open to ways of developing and extending the household allowance. I even think of the idea that this could be a kind of package that would increase the chances of trying to reach a low threshold. The problem with entrepreneurship in Finland is that it is difficult and bureaucratic, and on the other hand, the cost of labour in Finland is so expensive that people cannot necessarily afford to buy services produced through its business. There are other ways of reducing red tape and lowering the threshold on that side, but on the other hand, such household reductions and similar measures can reduce the cost of labour to the extent that it is a small, low-threshold business that will be worthwhile in the future. Large companies seem to have more direction out of Finland, unfortunately, so small businesses and entrepreneurs are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u151	Mr President! Our country’s population is ageing rapidly, and the need for various home-produced services that make everyday life easier is growing rapidly. It is important that we legislators seek ways of supporting the housing and self-determination of senior citizens. An excellent step in the right direction is to adopt this bill and increase the household allowance for 75-year-olds and their parents. The current corona virus epidemic has made life difficult for many seniors as opportunities for normal everyday life have diminished. To protect their own health, many have had to give up shopping, for example. A higher household allowance would allow more people to use e.g. services, and the corona scheme would be smoother. The adoption of this bill would strengthen the freedom of Finnish senior citizens to choose and decide on their own daily lives. A higher household allowance would support the potential of senior citizens to buy these services, which they feel most in need. It should be recalled that the household allowance also has a significant impact on the recovery of our country's economy and on the overall level of demand. Increasing the household allowance would be a hand-out for a large number of micro-entrepreneurs in the service sector, small and medium-sized enterprises, many of whom have suffered greatly from the effects of the interest rate. In addition to facilitating older people's daily lives, we would therefore also support domestic employment and enterprise.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u152	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen raised such a fundamental Left-wing argument that a household allowance would be a tax advantage favouring high incomes. That is what Mr Andersson said on Twitter today, after we had already had the hope here that the government would be taking up this coalition model and helping the economy recover by raising and extending the household allowance. This idea of a tax advantage for well-paid people is not true. There is such a flawed logic that it is thought that the economy and work would be some sort of zero-sum game in which the tax benefits of someone would automatically come from someone else — but the household allowance is just an example that this is not the case. It is not out of place for anyone to be able to buy services more widely in society, thereby increasing the number of jobs in the services sector and, for example, in the low-wage sectors. Secondly, in my own speech, I made a very specific point about how this model presented by the Assembly would also enable middle-income Finns to use the services by increasing the reduction rate to 60 per cent. In this example of mine, I specifically pointed out that this increase would make it worthwhile for Pekka, who works as an electrician, to stay for that additional installation job and to hire child care help at home. In other words, this error of logic, which is constantly occurring in this debate, should be eliminated in Finland. As has already been said in this debate, Sweden has understood very well that the reduction in household income and the increase in household income are certainly not from anyone, but only brings more prosperity and more work to society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u153	Mr President! We have had this debate now on this household allowance. I am not an expert in the field at all, but I dare say that when it comes to a benefit that is tax-related, of course the benefit benefits those who pay taxes, and in this respect it also has a share of income. Congressman Vestman said that logic should be used here, and I'm trying to use logic. You said it was not absent from anyone, this household allowance. Perhaps this is how it is to be said that it is not absent from anyone, but when it comes to a benefit that is directed only at certain types of people, that is to say, those who pay taxes in this case, it is in such a way favourable to people with higher incomes, and this is the one dilemma that this household allowance has. The advantage of the household allowance is definitely that this grey economy will become more transparent. Representative Sarkomaa has made this special presentation — which was not open in this earlier debate before you opened it — about having this kind of super-household allowance for people aged over 75 who received less than 1200 euros. Isn't that right? Or was EUR 1200 a benefit for those who do not pay taxes at all? Will we then be talking about pensioners who receive less than EUR 1 000 in income? It was unclear to me. Regardless of what is at stake here, the idea in itself that we should give direct support to the most low-income pensioners — those who do not pay taxes — is in themselves fascinating and interesting, and in this respect the government has already made a very clear move. After all, we received increases in national pensions and guaranteed pensions, which is precisely the pension income that does not pay taxes, and in a sense the government also recognizes this need for strong support for the smallest pensioners, and it is also clearly included in the government programme. I think that this idea of direct support for people on low incomes, as it were, who are doing household work, is at least worth studying. I do not know how to evaluate these details at all, because I would have to look through these calculations here, but it is in itself worth examining, that we would clearly target the most low-income pensioners this type of form, if it is otherwise practical and budgetaryly, fiscally justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u154	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. In this context, discussion will also be allowed on the 11th to 16th day of the agenda. on the subject. I'm opening a conversation. Presentation, Mr Tavio, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u155	Mr President! However, this was the idea that I would introduce everyone. It'll make it a little clearer. [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne :This is what I meant,but a presentation. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u158	Mr President! In particular, I would like to comment on this excise duty on liquid fuels or its bill. If you go to gas up a car in Finland and think you bought a litre of fuel, in reality that money has only received 0.33 litres of fuel. In other words, the motorist pays the general budget coverage of society net, acts as a dairy cow, while if someone goes to public transport in Helsinki and buys a single ticket of EUR 2.8, he is actually hit by another handful of society, because HSL is 50% tax-funded. In other words, in public transport, this relationship works a little differently from that in private cars. And the Finns also want to point out that private motoring in Finland is also necessary in the future. In general, this and our subsequent legislative initiatives are combined with the idea that jobs in Finland, investments in Finland and tax revenues in Finland. These legislative initiatives would entail costs or, more correctly, revenue lost to the State indirectly, but they will also have dynamic effects — jobs, increased consumption and purchasing power — which will lead to a return and even increase in tax revenues over the longer term. These direct expenses, however, arising from initiatives, are proposed to be cut out of transfers abroad and other similar expenditure items that are not of direct benefit to Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u159	Mr President! In the basic textbooks of the national economy, when tax systems are reviewed, there are at least three aspects of taxation: it has a fiscal significance, i.e. it collects income for the states; it has a behavioural influence and also has an income equalisation effect, can also be used for it. Fuel taxes also work here. They play a very central fiscal role throughout the world, not only in Finland. They also have a guiding effect, as Mr Mäkelä said, among other things, that efforts are being made to control people's use of collective transport, not private cars. And they have income-divided effects. Although it is now equal to the amount of car used, the most low-income people do not necessarily have cars available, and in that sense it has a balancing effect, although I understand and recognize that people on high incomes and low incomes may have both cars and then a low-income person will pay more for this. It has an income equalizing effect, but it is different. But the fundamental criticism of this initiative, as has already been done many times in this parliamentary debate on this fuel tax, is that this increase is not a historic increase. This is only a response to the fact that we want to keep the real level of fuel taxation as it has been until now, and here, in practice, the government period in succession has always increased these fuel taxes to the extent that, as an index check, this is done. And this is the same question. That we don't have to make this a bigger mass now. We do not have to go through the government in which the Finns of Peru have sat down and raised fuel taxes, where, in history, which party has sat and increased these fuel taxes, because that is where the real fiscal effect is to be maintained in terms of the government's estimates of revenue and expenditure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u160	Mr. Speaker! It really understands that taxes will be revised in some time, but I have to say that I have never heard anyone talk about tax index increases before until now, in the context of this fuel tax increase, the representatives of the government parties have started to raise this issue. I think it only tells us how a motorist is seen as a dairy cow in Finland and is trying to do more and more about this anti-motorist policy. He hears, for example, that only public transport should be used, but often that is not possible, and often it is not as nice as driving. I'm sure people have different views about the private car how much it belongs to life, but I would say that where someone likes to ride a bike, so many people like to go by car, especially when we're a little northerly out here in Finland in a cold country. I'm sure I'm starting to think that a car is one of those things of material well-being. If the problem is that people cannot afford a car, then surely we have to go down the road price, and, as the government is doing here, we do not go up the road price. Driving has now been seen as a means of climate change, and this is a very exaggerated approach to car emissions, especially in view of how much lower-emission newer cars are. When you look at international or Finnish emissions targets and look at them from an international perspective, Finland's emissions targets for transport have already been reached by almost 40% with current measures, while in Germany the emissions target for motoring is only 40%. In other words, it is still seen here in Finland that some government parties in particular want to use this tax as a means of steering, while some government parties have already sworn here that there will be no new tax increases for motorists. That remains to be seen. Yes, this government tax increase has been historic because it has been higher in terms of quantity than that of previous governments. If the Finns of Peru have had to raise taxes while in the government, that is no reason to go further and even more so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u161	President! It must be remembered that this famous increase in the fuel tax of the previous government, in which the Finns of Finland were involved, took place in a slightly different world situation. At the time, there was a slight increase in the economy, and it was necessary to replace the EU ban on sugar tax with some revenue from the state budget. Now that we are in a corona crisis, transport costs are still hampering our economy in difficulty and the government is raising this tax also for ideological reasons, not just to patch up the Treasury, the situation is quite different. The price of fuels in Finland is very high compared to the rest of the world. I have just checked that in extremely few countries it is any higher than in Finland and categorically higher it is nowhere. In Hong Kong it was probably a few ten cents more expensive, but in the countries of the control group it is certainly not more expensive than in Finland, which means that in Finland this fuel price is completely wasted. As far as low incomes and high incomes are concerned, very many people on low incomes drive old cars, which may be worth only a few thousand euros or even hundreds of euros, and have high nominal emissions, which become high charges each year. The government wants to raise these charges and thus make life even more difficult for the low - incomed person who lives in an area where the car is forced to be used. Of course, these fuel taxes will be their bill, but also these other, multiple car costs that the government wants to increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u162	Mr. Speaker! I have come to the conclusion, following this debate on fuel taxes, that the government started out that this tax increase was intended specifically for motoring, because that is when the tax is applied to those in employment. It is the taxation of working and entrepreneurship that is the policy of socialists. Instead, we are trying to favour some kind of increase in dependence on subsidies. The use of a car in itself is necessary, and often it is necessary for other reasons, but now, if you think of moving to work or hobbies, most of you need a car, to take children to a day care centre or to a store, for example. I looked here in the capital region as I was traveling on the inside of Ring Three to the shopping center Flamingo when I went to the store. So I looked back at it in the public transport service and looked at how it would have been broken by public use. It was so that I would have had to make two exchanges, that is, three public transport trips, and it would have taken me half the night, and back again the same thing, so I would have had to take six public transport trips together. Well, everyone understands that instead of making trips like that, you're not going to go to the mall. So you need that car just like this to go to the store-style for basic movement even inside Ring 3. This always seems surprising to those city people who base their lives on living in a city centre and doing almost everything in that city centre, but most of us may not want to live a city life quite so concisely, but are used to being moved, and especially in rural areas, it is quite obvious that trade trips are tens and tens of miles in one direction or the other. Of course, there's always the one thing that needs to be remembered. Big business bags are in the big family, big people are often completely impossible to carry in public, which means they need to get a car on board. This is also the case with car driving, which is quite often the case with different family and then city singles, for example. Let us hope that in future a favourable policy will be taken to make this car possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u163	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u164	Mr. Speaker! With its generous legislation and immigration policy, Finland has created attractive factors that attract asylum seekers, even those that attract illegal residents. The number of these attraction factors has been increased even after the start of the migration crisis. The policy direction is wrong and needs to be corrected. In 2015, around 32,500 people applied for international protection in Finland. In 2016, around 5,600 applications were registered and in 2017, approximately 5,000 were registered. Nevertheless, the law before us was adopted despite the fact that these figures should have been the alarm clocks to warn against the adoption of such legislation. Since 2015, approximately 40% of applicants for international protection have received a negative decision on their application. Some who have received a negative decision do not leave the country, but stay in Finland illegally. These persons may be provided with urgent social services in municipalities for which municipalities may apply for compensation from the Social Insurance Institution. It is not the task of Finnish taxpayers to pay for the services of illegal residents, but to remove those who have received negative asylum decisions without delay after the decision has been taken. And in order to get out of the country, the Finns have demanded that they be detained instead of being allowed to move freely in our country, potentially endangering the safety of our citizens, and they are also likely to use basic public services. So now, on behalf of the Finnish Parliament Group, I propose that Article 12a of the Social Welfare Act be repealed. This article, which came into force three years ago, concerns state compensation for the social services of a person seeking international protection and who has received a negative decision on his application. The article provides that the Social Insurance Institution shall reimburse the costs incurred by the municipality and the joint municipal authority through state resources when, in an emergency, a foreigner seeking international protection whose reception services have ceased has been provided with food or medicines or temporary housing services. The proposal is part of the completion of the alternative budget for the Finns of Finland, and we are therefore indeed proposing this reduction in the proposed budget for the costs of social care illegally staying in the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u165	Mr President! This law is a good example — or should I say a bad one — of what was already seen in the context of this migration crisis, that when the situation is a matter of some kind, the rules will then be brought into line with the situation and the rules in force will not be respected. In any case, I do not think it can be said that the thorn in Finland is open in any case, whether or not it is the right to stay in the country, and this law sends a message, such as a backrest, that, in the end, municipalities are paid for the endless cashier of the state, even the maintenance of a person who is illegal in the country. We must leave the country if there is no right to stay, and that is the only message that I think this Chamber can give.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u166	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u167	Mr President! The Finns Party is the first party of Finnish entrepreneurs. We have been driving and still driving to Finland the Estonian tax model, where corporate tax can be exempted from investment. This tax model in Estonia should definitely be clarified, and I therefore call on the government to take action. As an alternative to this, we are now proposing a lower tax rate for limited liability companies in this bill. Lower taxation would be justified, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. A 20% change in the current tax rate is proposed so that the income tax rate starts to be calculated at 19.5 percentage points first, i.e. moving towards lower income tax by half a percentage point at a time, in itself moderately. The corporate tax rate itself has fallen steadily over the last decades in developed economies. This is an international form of tax competition in which nation states seek to provide a competitive environment for the company, which is hoped to influence the choice of location of companies and thus increase or at least maintain tax revenue. Finland was a long-term attractive option for businesses as a result of the previous significant reduction in corporate tax rates, but other countries have reached this distance with their own tax reductions. In the opinion of the Finns Party, we need to look at the matter and start — on the basis of the studies, of course — gradually lowering the corporation tax. Of course, it is essential to look at the fact that the overall tax rate of the Communities is not going to increase, because now, with these many increases, such as fuel tax increases, this has already happened. This bill relates to the budget initiative I have tabled on this same subject and it is hoped that this issue will be clarified and examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u168	Mr President! The message of this bill is that in all circumstances Finland must be an interesting destination for investments and thus an interesting place to offer work to Finns. Investment in general also produces jobs. Such a message has come from industry that the last ten years have been a very bad time for Finnish investors or for investors in Finland. Depreciation has been higher than investment. If the next ten years go at the same rate, then the jobs begin to disappear. Everything must be done to prevent this. Of course, such tax regulation is only one way among others, but it is also a necessary way. We must remember that our neighbours are competing with us on the same internal market within the European Union, many of these countries much better at the benefits and payments of the Union. After all, Finland is a net contributor, and many of our neighbouring countries, especially those towards the south, are net recipients. We cannot afford to give anything in this race and we cannot gain any advantage in it, because we play with the same rules, but the others get more money than we do. In this situation, we must do what we can to support Finnish employment and investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u169	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u170	Mr. Speaker! Finns defend the competitiveness of Finnish industry. This bill proposes to increase compensation for indirect costs arising from emissions trading. This is a definition clause, Article 3 of the Act, which deals, inter alia, with the information used to calculate the amount of aid. It is proposed to amend Article 3 so that emissions trading compensation can be set at a higher level than is currently the case. The importance of heavy industry is great for the Finnish economy. With an epidemic of interest rates, the outlook for the export industry has deteriorated, and the Finns of Finland feel it is important to facilitate the price competitiveness of industry by changing the law so that industry can apply for more emissions trading compensation, as competitors of our companies in many other EU countries can do today. This initiative is therefore aimed at improving competitiveness in relation to our control countries. Although the emissions trading compensation is coming to an end after this year, this last-minute change now has the opportunity for politicians to send a positive signal to industry that it is worth investing in Finland, that we ensure that Finnish industry is competitive, that we do not compromise. With the proposed change, we would close half the present German lead, for example. This initiative is also linked to the corresponding budget initiative and forms part of the future industrial-friendly alternative budget of the Finns Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u171	Mr President! When I come from that paper industry region in Finland in particular, it is clear that the heavy export industry is still the backbone of Finland's employment and tax revenue, although other industries in modern times will develop alongside them when restructuring has taken them away from the paper industry and the metal industry, but they are still extremely important and vital for the financing of Finland's welfare society as a whole. This initiative, which we have taken, would send a clear signal to industry that investment in Finland is worthwhile, that investment is sought for us and that we want to make an industry-friendly policy. It is also worth remembering here that Finland is a very remote country in which the transport costs of exports are already high. In other words, with regard to emissions trading, we cannot now at least give our competitors an extra head start — Germany, for example, which costs twice as much of us — because, first of all, we have to take things away from Finland expensively, we are raising the price of fuels, we are going to go with the sulphur directives of all kinds. Well, then we would not even support our industry in the same way as other rival countries, which still have cheaper labour, so that the situation would be impossible, and we must do what we can to prevent this. The Finns have taken such an initiative, and we wish it success.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u172	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u173	Mr. Speaker! This bill provides for the amendment of Articles 23 and 124 of the Income Tax Act. It is a question of making the tax base fairer and wider by taxing the capital income of large foundations and associations, such as dividends and rental income. The wealth of thousands of foundations operating in Finland is estimated to be approximately EUR 20 billion in the Foundations Ownership Report, and the number of foundation investors is about one thousand. It is unfair and unreasonable for even small companies, which are at risk of market risk, to pay capital taxes while at the same time genuinely wealthy and stable associations and foundations receive their capital income tax-free from year to year. Legislation treats entrepreneurs worse than foundation investors. The proposed legislative reform would only apply to the largest foundations and very wealthy associations. There are numerous small associations and foundations in Finland that operate with small or small funds and whose activities may depend on tax-free capital income, so that their capital income could be left exempt until EUR 100000. Moreover, the tax rate could be lower than the general capital tax rate of 15 %. This would not make it difficult for small foundations to operate. Moreover, the reform would not affect foundations or associations of general interest whose income is non-capital income. Large foundations carry out quite large-scale business activities. According to the National Audit Office, it has been found that the Patent and Registration Board has granted establishment permits to foundations whose business is so extensive in relation to other activities that the actual purpose of the Foundation can already be considered to be the conduct of business. The activities of the foundations may also have changed to the pursuit of business activities at a later stage, without prejudice to the permission to set up the rules. This is a tax evasion which is now being proposed through a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u174	Mr President! Tax exemption is something which, of course, reduces the tax base for the recipient of the tax exemption: that is, when taxes do not have to be paid, there will then be no tax collection. Therefore, the exemption must be applied with great caution and on the grounds that it is precisely this person to whom the exemption should be granted that should be exempt from tax. Is that so general interest? Is that so business-free, non-profit-making? In the case of these foundations, this is not the case in many cases. Question Time asked several times whether the fee for carers could be tax-free. It could not then be duty-free, could not exempt one wage income from taxes, said the Minister of Finance. Now, however, the situation is that large foundations are already tax-free. Our presentation is also part of our fair fiscal financial package, which helps to finance the spending increases we have proposed in the alternative budget of the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u175	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u176	Mr. Speaker! This bill provides for the amendment of Article 125 of the Income Tax Act, or Article 2 of the so-called Labour Income Reduction Act, to increase the maximum reduction in labour income and increase the percentage of the reduction. In its current form, Article 2 reads as follows: ‘A reduction of 12,5 % in excess of the revenue referred to in Article 1,2500 euro. However, the maximum reduction is EUR 1770. When the taxable person's clean earned income exceeds EUR 33000, the amount of the deduction will be reduced by 1.84% for those who exceed EUR 33000. The deduction shall be made before any other deduction from income tax.’; The current legislative initiative proposes that the maximum reduction in labour income be increased from EUR 1770 to EUR 1927 and that the reduction rate be changed to 1.97. The proposed amendment relates to the dismantling of incentive traps. Removing or even reducing the incentives to take up work will increase employment, which will increase government tax revenues and reduce government spending, as fewer people will receive unemployment benefits. The reduction in labour income is a simple but effective measure to improve employment and labour taxation. People should not be accused of inaction if working is not worthwhile from the point of view of a person’s own economy. Politicians must ensure that job search and job reception are always attractive. In Parliament, we do not usually have a direct impact on the gross salary of those who work, but we here do have an impact on how much people are left in the hands of their salaries. The Finns of Peru are in favour of reducing the tax burden on gainful employment, and this pro-employee perspective is strongly reflected in our alternative budget, which includes this bill as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u177	Mr President! This proposal is part of an overall effort to ease the tax burden on ordinary, hard-working, working citizens and to improve their purchasing power. The pressures on wages are largely due to the fact that the disposable income after all possible taxes, charges, compulsory equal instalments is so small that it encourages the demand for more pay. And when the salary rises, Finnish labour costs will also rise and competitiveness will deteriorate. This is an unfortunate vicious circle, and I understand that the only way to get rid of it is to reduce the cost of living and the direct taxation of those in work. This is what our presentation does for its part. We believe that accepting work must always be worthwhile. The money released in this way, which is, of course, indirectly out of the state's tax revenue, is also released for domestic consumption, which, in the very short term, will in any case bring back the State's tax revenue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-19-ps-148.u178	Mr. Speaker! As a general reflection, Finland has one of the highest income taxes in the world. I therefore do not think that we should leave, even if, for example, the increase in the historic fuel tax by the government is a time for additional taxes on those directly employed or, for example, the increase in taxes on the price of housing is a great deal for those in work. However, increasing economic freedom should also be one of Parliament's main priorities. In other words, what people are trying to do here is that the reduction in the tax burden on labour certainly increases material well-being, while increasing access to employment, employment certainly increases the well-being of families, intellectual well-being. In other words, from the point of view of employment measures, this is precisely the kind of thing that the Finns believe in, so we do not assume that jobs are created only in the public sector by increasing public finances, but in the opinion of the Finns, more work is created in the private sector in a normal market economy, when only taxation of labour and taxation of businesses encourage it. In this context, it must also be stressed that reducing the tax burden on this work is also a very positive thing for companies, because then the need for wage increases, the pressure on wages will be reduced, and so it will also, in particular, be able to be said, on a large scale, to maintain and improve the competitiveness of Finnish industry, and that is what we need above all here, so let us make work more profitable, let us give priority to Finnish work and try to achieve the goals of the state, so that in this way Finland could face the challenges of the future and achieve better economic well-being.
