ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:05]] They registered in the session hall with cards of 396 national deputies. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear National MPs, today, and not yesterday, as I declared mistakenly, the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine, Alexander Olegovich and Anatoly Ivanovich's Seminoga. Please welcome our colleagues today. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 1 March 2011. Twenty-six questions of the agenda have been considered: nine bills have been adopted as a basis, three bills have been converted to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, 10 bills and one draft decree have been rejected. Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes spent speaking to national MPs with statements, reports, information, queries, and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Valerius Kamchatny, group of Reforms for the Future. Get ready for Najdion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u2	Good morning, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Our colleagues propose two bills to introduce a moratorium of 9 and respectively 19 years to increase the retirement age of the minimum working age for retirement. Indeed, these are extremely difficult and unpopular steps. At the same time, no one thinks that the ratio for today’s working day is approaching the critical mark. In the near future, every working Ukrainian will provide one pensioner. So the word "moratorium" is kind of a parasite word. No reform can be implemented if any reform is replaced by a moratorium. So the delay in pension reform, and that's what I was talking about yesterday, on the one hand, might lead to a social crisis, but on the other hand, such reforms need to be done very carefully and in such a way that the least protected social strata get the appropriate compensation mechanisms. So the President's fair words will be the crime of this generation before the older generation if we don't bring these reforms into effect. We can't let that happen. So the Reforms for the Future faction urges colleagues to go into Bills 8042, 8042-1. And there's another subject I'd like to break in this room today. We just got back from the districts. And, you know, there was one unexpected problem for me. On January 5, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to transfer such a drug as ketamine to the drug class. What did this lead to? This led to the fact that no veterinarian today has the right to operate on domestic animals. Voters who have pets are unable to count them today in critical situations. Veterans have their hands tied. This type of decision was not designed; it should have been accompanied by increased control over the use, distribution and implementation of ketamine. In fact, this has led to very serious problems for animal owners. We request a review of this decision by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u3	Naydenov is handing over the right to speak to Alexei's colleague, a faction of Communists. Next is Anatoly Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, early this year Ukraine once again faced a deficit in the food market. After a series of price balloons from the shops, the Greeks began to disappear, following it with flour and other foods. This is not the first time that Ukraine has sought to become an agrarian leader of the world economy has been forced to import agricultural products to eliminate food deficits. Why is the situation repeated year after year? In turn, meat, eggs, sugar, and oil become scarce. Why are the food security of the state and the welfare of Ukrainian citizens threatened every six months? The answer to the question of the convenience of such a situation is clear and clear. Playing the artificial production of deficits is a favorite way for large agrotraders and small-scale magnets to profit from the population. It's another question of what to do. The Minister's office today is trying to slow down price increases and eliminate local deficits, but it's acting again indecisively and with great delay. At the same time, the government wants to limit itself to the declarant memoranda with manufacturers and the public authorities of large retail networks. Obviously, that's not enough. For example, the decision to restrict the export of grains was correct and was fully supported by the Communists. However, the stability of the internal market has not been ensured. In order to prevent the price dictatorship of traders and stop the practice of monopolies, it is necessary to radically change the approach to economic policy. The State must become an active subject in the food market, not a blinded overseer who does not see what is happening in his household. Today, it is necessary to rebuild state-owned agricultural enterprises, encourage rural cooperation, restore agrarian infrastructure, create an alternative retail trading system. Only in this case will the production of the native APC come to our citizens' tables, not to be exported for nothing in the form of feed. In view of the government's top priority task, the Supreme Council needs to develop a new coordinated programme for the development of Ukraine's agri-industrial complex, at least by 2020. And it is only in this context that we can consider the question of longing, or the abolition of the moratorium on the free sale of land. Without a clear strategy for a country's APC to decide to launch the land market is to put the food security of the state at risk. What is happening in the food market today cannot be viewed as a single problem. This situation is an expression of the quality of Ukrainian private capital today. The only thing that interests the Ukrainian capitalist today is getting revenue at any cost. How can we talk today about the so-called reform of the LHC — housing and utilities — if the result of the private capital coming into this sector can be uncontrolled tariff jumps? In today's conditions, supporting social standards and ensuring a decent standard of living is a number-one task for the government. If that's the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u6	its external forces, which today insist on liberal reform, can tomorrow become both the main critics and the main driving forces of political destabilization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u7	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of Regions, please. John the Rabbit will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u8	Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs! 2011 is crucial for creating irreversible conditions for economic growth, for raising the social standards of our citizens' lives. And this is essentially a major task that needs to be worked hard both by the authorities and by the state as a whole. Internal and external conditions are very complex: instability in the Middle East, North Africa has created preconditions for a sharp rise in oil prices and natural gas; unprecedented rise in prices in food markets. A vital, complex package of structural reforms is needed: pension, administrative, tax, legal, etc. And it's hugely important in these conditions to create the necessary conditions for a viable demand in the internal market, to increase its investment activity, to create a powerful middle class in Ukraine. As of 1 January of this year, the Tax Code has been introduced that directly influences these tasks. Experts, experts, industry associations, entrepreneurs, employers of Ukraine, and this ongoing task requires constant monitoring, monitoring of the impact of the Tax Code on the development of Ukraine’s economy, on the impact of the Tax Code on business activities that depend on the creation of jobs, and, of course, on the welfare of our citizens. It is essential and necessary to carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers, together with the Parliament's professional committees, to submit to the Supreme Council a package of legislative acts to create favourable conditions for entrepreneurs working on a simplified system of taxation. It is essential to resolve the issue set out in the Law on the Tax Code: automatic compensation of the added value tax. Breakdown of the added tax terms is the destruction of corporate finances, which is a decrease in investor confidence in Ukraine. The customs value, the normal prices, the tax, the accounting, the checks are all the issues that need to be resolved, bringing our efforts together immediately. Therefore, we urge all national deputies, regardless of the political situation, the factions to unite their efforts and create everything to create conditions for the growth of our economy and the well - being of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u9	John the Rabbit, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Danielenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u10	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the year of the new government will move us to stand firm for the protection of all education workers in the entire educational field. The government and the parliamentary majority, without regret, are convincing the people of their extremely effective activities, particularly by referring to GDP growth. In my opinion, a synthetic and more equitable indicator of the effectiveness of the regime is the situation in the educational sphere. Because education support is an investment in a citizen, in the future of a state and a nation. What, then, was the new authority doing here? Let's go to lunch. First. Only school and preschool education are underfunded by nearly 3 billion. The terrible financial hardship is felt all over the country, but it's particularly severe in education in the countryside, where they're deprived of any maneuver. Last Friday, I met the public of the Mankow district of Cherkas. So education in this small rural area is underfunded compared to last year's 5 million dollars. It's a disaster. If school and preschool facilities were previously underfunded by textbooks, methodical literature, equipment, physical training tools, and so forth, they are now beginning to be saved at the cost of teachers ’ work. Teachers are warned that they will no longer receive payment for checking their notebooks. And as last year, they'll be sent on vacation at their own expense. Teachers have already forgotten the reward for their conscientious work. But in this background of education, the wealth of the oligarchs doubled year after year if they did not triple. The other one. The new government under the leadership of the Minister of Education of Tobacco destroys the institutional level of education with manic stubbornness. Under the so - called optimisation of schools, schools are closed. To liberate schools, schools, high schools, seniors, and so on, so that they can expand the network of their entertainment centers and lure young youths into these cubicles and deprive them of their future. The new authorities continue to alarm and exasperate society with their fragile reforms in higher school. Only last year's introductory campaign had to get the poor minister out of work. The new authority does not abandon its attempt to limit independence. And student self-governance. Third. The governing regime has launched a frenzyed campaign after denationalization of education. Everything Ukrainian is being choked out of the educational process. The Ministry of Education has significantly reduced the scope of Ukrainian language in educational activities, and history textbooks have been removed from the nation’s staff and events. The educational process is organized in such a way as to attach a value-adding complex to all Ukrainians so that the Ukrainian nation loses its title in Ukraine. A variety of tobacco users want to replace Ukraine as a nation of citizens with a multi-cultural multinational state, and in fact a nation filled with exclusively Russian political cultural tradition, which is the dominant interest of the parents of today's educational reform, which is already the existential challenge of the Ukrainian nation, which we will never accept. We, the people's deputies from Ukraine, demand that the government, the parliamentary majority and President Yanukovic stop destroying the educational sector, we urge.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u11	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u12	We call on the governing regime to review the policy of financing education in the face of its substantial increase, to stop shutting down schools and fighting the independence of universities and students, and we categorically reject attempts by the authorities to deukranize education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u13	Please, Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, prepare Tarana.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable voters! A few days ago, we witnessed an unusual event: the President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorović Janukovic, responded to questions of the people. We all remember the slogan of President Yanukovic of Ukraine: "I will hear everyone." The action that we have seen should have demonstrated the realization of this message in life. In fact, though, it all came to a well - known conclusion: We wanted to do what was best, but it was as good as ever. The simple question is, does the President want to unite Ukraine? It wants, however, what idea, for what purpose, we have not received an answer to this question. But it is clear that the President does not want to hear and notice the desire of the Russian-speaking population of Ukraine to have the legitimate right to use Russian in all spheres of life. The bill to solve this problem at the regional level, which, together with the leader of the Communist faction, Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko, is also a representative of the Party of the Regions, is located in the Supreme Council without movement. Perhaps the President of Ukraine does not know that the strange process of unifying the people of Ukraine living in the east and in Galicín is taking place at the regional level. On the eve of 23 February, to all the famous Soviet Army Day, in Kharkiv, the heads of the regime of Harkov and the lionesses, the measures of the towns of Lviv and Harkov opened the memorial board of Joseph Blind, ensnared by cooperation with German invaders during the Great Homeland War. In all public statements and measures of the city of Kernes Gennadi Adolfovich, and Head of Administration Mikhail Marković Dobkin, who are the leaders of the regional organizations of the Party of the Regions, stated that they were working to unite the people of Ukraine. I would like to state here from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, if President Yanukovic, the honourable leader of the Party of the Regions, understands the integration of the people of Ukraine as a process of humiliating the honour and dignity of those who never recognize German fascists as their heroes, most people do not accept such policies. This is the majority of the people of Ukraine who elected Yanuković as President, and the Party of the Regions has given the majority of the mandates in the Supreme Council and in the local councils. So today, who are you with, Mr. President, with whom are you the Party of the Regions? I mean, the Communists have been defending the honour and dignity of veterans, we have opposed this offensive act, but the police have absolutely unlawfully prevented us from holding a picket, and to me, the National MP, we have applied physical force. It is a disgrace to those who betray the interests of the electorate to those who insult the veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u15	Taran. Get ready, Vashtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u16	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. First of all, I want to state that our faction collected 107 signatures in October for the resignation of today's government. These signatures have been gathered, and we are grateful to "Our Ukraine" for joining this work. And I want to say that we're also doing this because of the situation today in the humanitarian sphere. In particular, the closing situation. I, with your permission, will quote, I love to quote, the more I will quote a very well-known person, "Save thousands of schools from shutting down by lifting the limit on the filling of classes," is the end of the quote. This is Victor Fedorovich Janukovic's pre-election program. Did Victor Janukovich save the school from closure? No, I didn't. Schools continue to shut down, people are starving, people are protesting against what is being done to Ukrainian schools, first of all. And that's why the president was forced to ask the Committee on Economic Reforms a question to Tobacco, and he demanded that it be provided with complete information regarding the closure of Ukrainian schools. And that's where the fun begins. Literally after that, the day that the President made a request to Tobacco, in Moscow, the deputy of the Gosdymie Sergey Markov called his press conference, and at this press conference, he said, literally, "The Tobacco is the honour and conscience of the Ukrainian intelligence." Let me remind you, there used to be this slogan: "Party is the mind, the honour and the conscience of the age." Now, as far as Tobacco is concerned, it's only here that it's insane. But what I want to say is, was it an accident that Moscow acted so quickly? There's no such thing as random politics. And what happened so quickly, with the mouth of a member of the Putin faction, it meant one thing: the President received a clear signal, the Tobacco didn't touch. And that's why Ukraine heard the President's question, but didn't hear the answer from him? The answer was different. In Makiyivka, 44 schools are now being closed, 64 schools are being closed in Odessa, and so on throughout Ukraine. And that's why the question that our colleague asked, he's sitting there, Kirilenko Viacheslav in Savik Schuster, when he asked the deputy head of the administration, Mrs. Hanna Herman, "Who's running this country, who's the president of this country? And is the authority of Yanukovich distributed to the Tobacco?" It may not be distributed, or it would have been removed long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u17	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party. Prepare the Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u18	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party. A few days later, a strong male half of Ukrainian society will greet women with the spring festival, with the celebration of March 8th. In advance of this, I want to draw the attention of myself personally, from the women who asked me, from the civic parliament of women in Ukraine, to our strong half of society, to our very male Ukrainian government, to our dear men deputies, to the great President, to those wills and problems, as are Ukrainian women today, believing that we will be heard. Multi-child mothers ask me to turn to everyone on whom it depends on asking to speed up the delivery of their deserved, award-winning heroin mothers. Because all the elderly are afraid of waiting for those high rewards. Pension problem. 60 years for a woman to work on production, looking at which, and if it's a milkmaid or a beetroot, or it's working on harmful manufacturing. It's possible. But this question must certainly be answered by our government. And if this woman is a peasant, she's working on a support farm because she doesn't have a job. Today, collective farms have collapsed, but agriculture sells milk, meat, vegetables, and grain. Doesn't she deserve a pension? This is also likely to be taken into account by the coefficient given. And how many women are unemployed, what can be measured today is the problem facing young mothers who don't have apartments and hang out with children in other people's corners or can't have a baby because they can't bring a baby anywhere. Or grief, the pain of a mother who does not have the means to cure a sick child or to heal herself. I know it's not today's problems, they're with the beard, but fate has fallen out to today's government, to the male government of Ukraine to really become strong, courageous and solve them. This is when women in Ukraine are all smiling and happy, Ukraine’s future is assured. We want to believe that, see our problems in yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u19	Finish up. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u20	And hear about their decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u21	Smile, Catherine Timothy, smile. Cowchuk Victor, Faction BUT. Get ready for Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u22	Basil Krawczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Literally two or three weeks later, farmers enter the spring-field work complex, which requires almost 30 billion dollars. Where are the peasant’s expenses? Material and technical resources don't come in days, they go in hours. Today, 1 tonne of diesel costs nearly 10,000 dollars, a ton of ammonia saltpeter costs 3,000,300 dollars. Under the government of Yulia Timoshenko, fuel and fertilizer prices were twice as low. What happens to the prices of agriculture now? Today, one liter of milk is bought into the population by a total of 70 copies of 1 bracelet, one kilogram of live weight of flesh and swine — at the price of 12 bracelets. And the prices in stores for this product are scary and unacceptable to people. Yeah, one kilogram of hard cheese costs 50 or 70 bucks. One kilogram of cheap sausage costs 65 or 75 dollars. It's parasitizing the work of a peasant. And the Antimonopoly Committee and the Committee at Prices are watching it calmly. And someone's profiting millions. Plant production in agriculture is practically not available. What does this talk about? The harvest last year was ascribed. So where are the parity prices for today? The Agricultural Fund for the Agricultural Production Front never buys. Banks are virtually non-performing and, as they say, under 20 percent and more per cent of the annual ones, and that is only 10 percent of the producers. In the State Budget for 2011, the cost of supporting farmers is virtually not available. 10 million dollars -- is that the cost of partially compensating the value of complex technology? Or 100 million dollars for a budget animal subsidy? Or 500 million dollars for mortgages? Those are tears for the peasants. How should agriculture continue to function? Again with the cattle cutting? She's practically gone. During the last 6 months of 2010, the head of the World War II was reduced by 830,000 heads. In fact, two areas were cut out. At this rate, animals will virtually be destroyed in 3-4 years because of the underpriced policy of the government of Azarov. And then what? Where is the food security of the nation? Will it be like today's epepoch with Greek and other foods? Because monopolies, who now have 300 or more acres of relays in use, sow those cultures that they prefer, are sunflowers, rapes, soybeans. Who will grow the wheat, the wheat, the Greek, the pea? These are the foods that people need every day. As much as you can fool a peasant, let me ask representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and the relevant committees and services. You've already been given a fat couple for your village years, and not just in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u23	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I have been authorized to contact you by a group of Ukrainian national deputies of the Party "Our Ukraine". Ukraine’s national deputies, by taking office, make an oath of allegiance to Ukraine, which, inter alia, obliges them to adhere to the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 84 of the Ukrainian Constitution requires that when decisions are made, Ukrainian national deputies vote only on their own. Voting for others is a gross violation of the Constitution. I'd like to remind you of the lesson we recently learned from the Constitutional Court. Even the Act on Amendments to the Constitution, if it violates the constitutional procedure, is unconstitutional, i.e. illegal. We must admit that voting practices for others today are so widespread in the Supreme Council Hall that virtually all laws adopted here are unconstitutional. Such practices cannot continue indefinitely. It has not simply become an object of disgrace and ridicule by parliamentarians of other nations. I would like to remind you of the recent shame when a delegation of Polish ambassadors to the Seima visited the Supreme Council. It is not simply popular when almost every time you meet with voters, they ask the MPs: When you stop this shameful practice. It is a violation of the Constitution, the rule of law. The MP’s oath is sacred to a man of honor. Therefore, this practice must be put to an end at some point. In this regard, we state that we, from this point forward, and as of the preceding plenary week, will vote exclusively individually. We propose to each faction, to every national MP, to make a public commitment to uphold the Constitution, particularly its 84 articles. Moreover, we believe that the Supreme Council has all the technical prerequisites to ensure the individual vote of each MP. In this regard, we are officially addressing this as a parliamentary appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the reasons why the Council-3 system has not yet been put into effect, which guarantees the individual vote of each deputy. The violation of the Constitution by the defenders of the people must be halted, for thus this authority sets an example for the entire State, how shameful it can be to disobey the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u25	Finish up, please. Ladies and gentlemen, on this energetic note of the call. Dear colleagues, 30 minutes. You, dear fellows, are all calling for adherence to the Rules. According to the Rules, the speech was completed. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down, especially Romano Zvaric. [[B in m in s a l in]] Tomorrow's the line. You'll get a 15-hour replica and stop. Replica when it offended the MP. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Regarding the suggestions made by the national deputies, I ask them to prepare appropriate assignments, letters, and petitions. On the subject of the practice of organizing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely in the part of the vote of the Ukrainian national deputies. Dear colleagues, I am deeply grateful to the MPs who have raised this issue. Thankfully to the deputies who took up the constitutional obligation to carry out the Constitution after three years of work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a good thing we're all voting for ourselves on one condition, so we can go to work in the session room. Because we have deputies who claim to carry the card with them, but they rarely appear in the session hall. I think you see them still today that they're gone. But, honourable national deputies, from the following week (now the work is done to prepare a new voting system) to sign documents on the adoption of this system into operation, which is not. There will be a test of this system, and from next week I will sign the order to enter this system, whether someone likes it or not, but I can't tolerate it anymore. [[Applause]] Yesterday, in Luhansk, journalists operated on the Supreme Council. The softest word was "buttons". And they're absolutely right. So let's mobilize deputies to work. Whoever doesn't wants to make a statement, and I think we'll make the right decision. So let's stop calling each other to work. Let's work when it comes to the work of the Supreme Council, especially in terms of not just plenary meetings, but that's what committee work is all about. I thank you for your support in this regard. Now it's our organization of work. In a minute, please. Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I raised the same question last Wednesday, and I want to go back to it. Of the 121 people who have joined today, 62 have been registered by the Party of the Regions. Only one person was killed in the decade. I don't know what these random numbers are, as the machine thinks, but any mathematical model with random numbers should not be like that, Vladimir Mihajlovich. That's why I'm asking you to give me an official order to see who's doing our pens in the word system.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u27	Dear national MPs, are they still desirable? None. I made a preliminary statement on this matter. The answer is clear, respectable colleagues, that no one is chemicals -- you just have to push the buttons, and at this point, you don't kiss the neighbors, and you don't want to say hello, and you don't have to talk about everything. Well, please, dear fellows! We're going to discredit everything, and the car isn't like that, and we're not like that. Come on, let's finally figure this out! I was interested in this situation. I was given an appropriate opinion. I want to do it again. We need to push the buttons! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, well, I'm telling you again. If we have to, let's put an information system employee here, he'll answer. Please! If the buttons are pressed, everyone's pushing, not late. I want to tell you a lot of times: let's conduct a service investigation. Come on. Dear colleagues, well, there was already one side. Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko has been presenting claims that some regionals have been registered and that there are no "beaters". Because then they didn't record -- then they don't record. Well, at least let's not look for the guilty, let's look for the guilty. I'm asking the regulatory committee, the apparatus to conduct a service investigation, to provide relevant information. Now, dear colleagues, I would like to inform you of the missing deputies who are either on board or in the hospital: Oleg Belarus, Elina Shishkina, Irina Herashchenko, Mikola Catherinechuk, Mikola Yankovsky, Roman Tkac, Alexander Tkachenko. I'm asking that their cards don't work. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come and ask. You're all very clever, so go ask. I'm giving you those documents that the Supreme Council's apparatus has officially given me. You're all heroes, stand by, say "where," go. Yes, distinguished national MPs, we have completed the presentation procedure, 30 minutes in use. So let's get to the point. It's being announced. Adam Ivanovich, we will be them. Dear colleagues, the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Inter-State Adoption, 0201, is being discussed. And there is also a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation on Interstate Adoption. Obviously, there is a need to consider them separately. Because if the convention is not ratified, there will be no need to consider the following law. In view of this, I am announcing a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Interstate Adoption, registration number 0201. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Education and Science, Youth and Sports, Sulima Evgen Mikolaiovich. Correspondent is the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u28	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Honourable People's Deputies, Ukraine, is submitting to your consideration a draft Ukrainian law on the accession of Ukraine to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation on Interstate Adoption, which is designed to carry out the tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and introduced to the Supreme Council by the President of Ukraine. The main objective of the bill is to bring inter-State adoption activities in Ukraine into line with inter-State, international standards in this area. Every year, foreign citizens adopt more than a thousand Ukrainian children. Only in the past 2010 did 1 thousand and 202 children have been adopted by foreigners and have gone abroad. The State that allows adoption of children abroad is obliged to ensure that their rights and interests are respected both during and after adoption. This is the order with maximum consideration for the child’s best interests and respect for his or her rights and freedoms as enshrined in the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Interstate Adoption. The convention is already attended by 83 countries in the world, including the United States, the European Union, and most European countries in the post-Radians region – Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Belarus, Moldova, Georgia, which, like Ukraine, are donor states. The Convention establishes a system of cooperation between States and their competent authorities in the area of inter-State adoption. Its foundation is the creation of guarantees for inter-State adoption in the best interests of the child and the observance of its fundamental rights recognized in international law, the creation of a system of cooperation between contractual states that will ensure the prevention and sale of children or their trade. Ukraine's accession to the convention will allow problems in the area of inter-State adoption to be resolved, will prohibit the illegal activity of natural persons who are, in fact, mediators in the adoption of a child and will allow State control of the activities of organisations that will be properly accredited in Ukraine to carry out adoption activities, and will introduce an effective mechanism for obtaining information on the fate of children adopted by foreigners through organizations that provide adoption services. It should be noted that the proposals for Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Interstate Adoption have been submitted four times for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child has repeatedly called attention to violations of children’s rights in Ukraine in connection with nonparticipation to the convention. The outcome of this situation is that the President of Ukraine sees Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Interstate Adoption. Ladies and gentlemen of the people of Ukraine, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Ivan Kirilenko, please. Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone. Who? Olena Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u30	Vladimir Mikhailovich, they didn't pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u31	Olena Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u32	It's all there, thank you. Dear reporter, the opposition to the ratification of the convention refers to the need for direct interstate agreements. Can't you say how many interstate agreements Ukraine has made with others and what countries it is about inter-State adoption?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u33	I can only say one thing that there is, in fact, the Hague Convention, which is now bringing 83 nations together. And I would like to add that these countries have a bearing on this convention, signed by Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Great Britain, Ireland, Spain, Iceland, Italy, the United States, France, Germany. At the same time, indeed, there are interstate agreements. But there's a lot less. And I think so. They're not even there today, because, in fact, in a lot less countries that want to sign contracts today. They sign the Hague Convention first.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u34	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u35	Eugene Mikolaiovich, you know, in New Zealand, our women have recently been played in the lottery and now some kind of "why" has won two thousand dollars and added to our Ukraine as you win. We're going to assume, we're going to fix, it's our shame, it's the shame of the Ukrainian authorities that we've created such unbearable conditions for our women that they agree to play the lottery. But please tell me, why did the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject this convention four times? You know the main reason is that the Criminal Code of Ukraine provides for punishment, criminal responsibility for brokering human trafficking. You enter into this convention, you propose to legitimize the activities of some middleman who will sell our children abroad. Recently, you know, at the border, two Dutch girls were caught, homosexuals were carrying a baby because they wanted to adopt or adopt. You realize that this is unacceptable today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u36	I fully agree with you that the situation that exists is unacceptable, because today we are dealing with another. Citizens from other countries come to Ukraine without speaking Ukrainian, Russian, and from Borispol Airport they are already dealing with the individuals who provide these services illegally today. And the point is that, in fact, the convention foresees the existence of authorized public organizations that, first of all, must meet the requirement, they should be non-profit organizations. And the second. Such public organizations provide an opportunity to regulate both the adoption process and the subsequent monitoring of the life of the child in a new family, just as a public organization, and act as a mediator. Because, for example, in the United States today, five consular officials are unable to control the existence of children today in the United States.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u37	Sergey Podgorny, faction "BUT" is "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u38	May I have the floor to the representative of Soslov Eygen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u39	Eugene Suslov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u40	Thank you. I'd like to make it clear, you said that right now we can really have any physical person doing mediocre activities, and I'd like to make it clear whether that's true. Because, in fact, there are examples and examples that I personally, as a national deputy, have sent to the prosecutor's office, when they're dealing with mediocre activities, they're taking money for this in Ukraine, the only thing that's not responsible for this is because they're demanding money from the parents they're carrying. And basically, you said it right, I'd like you to confirm once again that we don't have control over these kids. Because that control, which is carried out abroad by health and children’s rights, is now nominal, is not meant physically, so I would like to clarify whether that is the case. And I personally support this convention, even though I voted against it last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u41	I think that anyone who gets to know the text of the convention, which is 14 pages, will find answers to a lot of questions. And I think if everyone were to read, there's really the first requirement that is, it's the very higher requirement that it should be humane and it's the very high interest of the child in this convention. So when we're talking today about whether we're going to interfere with someone or if we're going to catch by the hand of those who are doing mediation today, I'd like to say that first, we need to see a child, a child who can and will have from the State all the conditions to improve their future life in the family. Secondly, what you're saying about the existing nominal control, I think, the example that I've drawn, about the five men in the United States of America, it can be either nominal or not nominal. And that's all there is today to control the lives of our children abroad in the United States.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u42	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Taras Cnerwell, first deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u43	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the National MPs, the ratification law and the convention itself, which are brought to your attention, is a very difficult, very difficult document, around which, unfortunately, there are usually serious passions. And it's very rarely talked about, and it's dealt with in a pragmatic way with the verification of legal norms, details and individual moments, and the threats, and the advantages that it offers. And so I would ask that we approach it today, not from a political point of view, but from a professional, professional point of view. Our committee looked at him from that point of view. The fact is that this convention has already been introduced four times into our hall, and it has been rejected four times by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the fifth submission of the convention. This convention introduces a law of ratification which provides for certain declarations in relation to the convention. And these statements, in the Committee's view, are not exhaustive enough. They provide sufficient guarantees that it will not be acceptable for Ukraine, in our sense, to criminally mediate on adoption. Because this trend in many countries, including the United States, is a very active, very profitable business, and this raises some warnings. The warning is also a factor in limiting the control of, first, the family that is to adopt the child. Once again, because of the involvement of the middleman directly. And second, limitations are placed on the ability to control the fate of the child in those families where he is adopted. In this regard, appreciating all those elements, appreciating the fact that so far we do not see the political will to adopt an interesting and worthwhile bill by Mr. Eugene Soslow, who envisioned a moratorium on interstate adoption, and the adoption may still take place, and the committee in foreign affairs has decided by a majority to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft of the legislative initiative should be corrected. Our voices were divided as follows: one person offered to accept the convention in the way it is, one person offered to reject it completely, and to speak out absolutely unequivocally against the existence of this convention, but most deputies agreed that the protection of Ukrainian children abroad was necessary, that this convention could guarantee it, but if it did not conflict with the basic standards of Ukrainian legislation. And for that. And since, according to our constitutional principles, the international treaties ratified by Ukraine have primacy against national legislation, we believe that Ukraine should follow the path of a number of countries: the United States of America, Belarus, Bulgaria, a number of others who in their statements have clearly spelled out the primacy of their national legislation at separate clear points. Since our legislation on international adoption after we voted in the first reading yesterday, in my opinion, a very positive and very useful bill, which was introduced by the Cabinet on the clearer formulation of the principles of adoption, including inter-State legislation, we believe that these norms should be preserved. Therefore, the subject of the legislative initiative could, by re-imposing the convention, provide for the ratification law in applications made by Ukraine on a few occasions, and at several points of caution on these points, such as: on mediation, on the control of the status of children in the adoptive family, on Ukraine’s protection of its children, the primacy of Ukrainian legislation should take place. We can write this, although once again, according to the principle applied by other countries, the convention participants, and in that case the convention, in the opinion of most members of the committee, was a popular one. So the committee is asking you about the convention, to accept our position on the way forward. With regard to the law amending a number of Ukrainian laws, namely, the amendment of the Family Code and the Child Protection Act, we believe that these changes are directly derived from the text of the convention, directly linked to it and should not be considered separately. And so we ask both of you to send both documents together for processing. And once they return with additional applications, it will certainly be possible to take this convention seriously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u44	Question, please, to the reporter. Please sign up for the question. Names of the national MPs, please. Ruslan Knazevitch, faction of "Our Ukraine is a nation's self-defence".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u45	Taras Vjačeslavovich, well, I understand the committee's decision and I understand, including your position. And you don't think that given that the convention itself has been in operation since 1993 and, in fact, 20 years later. And if we put it off again, maybe there's no point in joining it at all. First of all, we don't know what's going to happen in two years. Maybe there'll be a new convention. After all, I feel that those countries that have signed this convention and are its initiators have absolutely no objection that Ukraine does not join this convention. On the contrary, they do everything they can to find this opportunity and leave it in a gray zone or so, as the deputy minister said, among the donor countries. It seems to me that this is a completely demeaning name and all the more that it would not be appropriate for us to use it. What is your attitude toward this? Because we're going to take so long until then, we're just going to have all the kids move out, and there's not going to be anyone to protect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u46	Mr. Ruslan, I fully agree with your warnings, which are, but the point is that legislation is already in place in Ukraine today, which clearly states who, in what way, can be adopted under the principles of inter-State adoption. These are rather serious restrictions. Today, we have tried to reach bilateral agreements with countries where Ukrainian children are often adopted. Unfortunately, this has not yet happened. As for the position to take to accept that, you know, we, I say, had no committee decision. I say again, I report, not my position, but the committee's decision. Most members of the committee. The committee’s decision was not that there was no need for an assembly. It was one thing. Still, it takes a few moments to follow not the most recent, not the stupidest countries. The same United States, writing more fully. I think it makes sense. If the will is political before this convention is adopted by Ukraine, I think that a new ratification law with these amendments could appear very quickly. If there is no such political will, it will still not be voted on the fifth time, even if we now take the position of the adoption committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u47	National Deputy Corge, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u48	Mr. Taras, I have a question for you and Deputy Minister Eugene Sulima. Please say, let's remember, we literally adopted the European Convention for the Protection of the Rights of Children for days. We have the Family Codex. If, indeed, there is a need for some legislative acts to be adopted, we can accept them. But speaking of this convention today, of interstate adoption, we are practically legitimizing the concept of continuing this shameful practice. In a demographic situation, for the creation of the institutions of the family environment, the children’s homes and so forth, and so on, we may be trying to stop this practice. Even the People’s Republic of China refrains from interstate adoption. We have to create all the possibilities for our children, for orphans first and foremost, to leave them in our country, to create conditions for them and to make them really.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u49	Dear colleague, I recently reported this updated European convention from this rostrum. It's totally positive. And it's very good that we accepted it, and it's very good that we voted yesterday on some initial changes to Ukrainian legislation, including the features of inter-State adoption. I think they're logical and right the changes we've voted for. And I'm sorry we didn't vote in general, because I think the document was very well prepared by the government and actually polished properly. As far as the principles of interstate adoption are concerned. Our internal legislation sets out certain filters: first, these are really children that can't be cured in Ukraine. I don't think we can ban it here, but it's allowed by our legislation right now. We predict that those children who have not been adopted in Ukraine may fall under State adoption. It's not a norm, it's a convention, it's a norm of the current legislation of Ukraine. The convention in this case makes certain commitments that the members of the committee consider to be excessive. We think we should have the primacy of Ukrainian legislation, and you can confirm it as a person who's involved in organizing and writing this legislation, and I'm a member of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u50	Thank you. Thank you, Taras Vejacheslavovich, time is up. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Sign up for the factions. Please put your name on the information board. Yes, now I'm asking you to sign up for the National Deputies. Can I have your last name? So, dear colleagues, 30 minutes to discuss the matter. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next one will be Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I would like to remind you that we have not ratified this convention four times. Did someone ask why, or did they not? Please see 2009: Prime Minister Janukovic Viktor Fedorovich, "for" the convention, ratification I mean, 34 men. What's changed now? It was mentioned that a number of applications are now being made on page 4 on behalf of Ukraine. And I ask you to open article 40 of the convention, and it says, "No warnings to this convention are allowed." I mean, whatever statements you're making, your honors, don't make, no warnings are taken there. And the next. I am now addressing representatives of very serious states, which are in principle such that many children adopt, but who have not joined the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, they have not ratified it. No wonder you'll hear it, it's the United States of America and Somalia. Two nations did not ratify the main convention, the basic Convention on the Rights of the Child. Now I'm asking you, "What if Ukraine as a state doesn't join this convention?" – "It won't happen." We didn't sign it, and, thank God, it'll be okay. Now for the text of the convention. I read it, absolutely to every article across the street, back and forth. We're supposed to, we've determined the court order with you, now the courts won't work, everything, it cancels this order, no, the courts won't handle it. Next. We talked about it. I don't think there'll be any other brokering organizations. Article 9 opens. It is written directly: either through government agencies or other organizations, or mediators. Another article. Article 9, paragraph "e" opens up such a Pandora box that we can't control what's going to be there with our children. And in view of that, honourable national MPs, despite the fact that 83 nations have joined this convention. What are these nations? These are usually those countries that are interested in importing. We, I agree with colleagues who have just spoken, have to create conditions for children to live here in the state. Among other things, a thousand 202 children last year were so also.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u52	Edward Pavlovenko, faction of the Party of Regions, please. Helen Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I am addressing those people's deputies who were with me in my second call. At that time, I headed the Special Investigation Commission to prevent the sale of children. All of you here, who was with me in this gathering, remember the lion's business, the Ternopolis case, the Odessa case. In view of these circumstances, we had to go to America and to Gosdepa to talk about it. You remember that 156 children were taken out of Ternopolis to be polished, that is to say, for treatment. You remember how hard it was to get back some amount. And there's an order that doesn't change the memory, 56 kids still haven't come back. What I was told in the Lord of America is, "Don't forget that we have a federal device." And I personally had to face these mediation organizations. What is the purpose of this document? The objective is here, and it is proposed both by the Ministry and by those who propose that public organizations, i.e. public organizations, should perform this function in the same way as before. And here we have to support Carmazin, which clearly speaks and proves. And we worked on this convention along and through. It is aimed only at legitimizing trafficking in children by means of our own hands. Moreover, at the time, the Consul-General of America was Lt. Valentino. The ambassador was Constantine Grishchenko. You can also ask them that when I got these kids together, I say, "Well, how can I identify?".. Not at all! And you'll see, literally here they said who ratified, those who delivered the children or those who took them. I'd like to make that sound. Well, there's no control, because there's no law in every state. And I looked there, you know, not exactly correct, I wasn't very happy to be there. After that, I was in Washington, New York, North Carolina, Minnesota, U.S.A. Indeed, some countries, and particularly then bilateral treaties, did not have mediation. More than that, I want to say, and remember when we gathered here four committees, and one MP from Harkov, I'm wrong to call his last name, and he says, "What do you think you're doing here? We're 128."..
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u54	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u55	I therefore call for the Convention to be a veiled trafficking of children. So categorically. Yes, "for processing" is "for processing." Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u56	Thank you. Olena Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u57	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In fact, this convention issue is extremely complex, quite controversial. And we're approaching the ratification of the convention by now, I'm sure it's the fourth. President Kuchma, President Yushchenko, President Janukovic, passed the relevant bills regarding our accession. I cannot hide that there was a very violent and serious discussion of this convention during our faction. On the one hand, the situation that has arisen regarding the practical uncontrollability of our children’s being abroad adopted cannot be without concern. Consulates don't deal with this problem, and we understand it very well. Moreover, it is often said that we do not need a convention, but we need direct agreements on interstate adoption with the respective countries. I have before me the answer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which states: "Ukraine has not made bilateral international agreements in the area of adoption. Ukraine has repeatedly initiated negotiations. - Well, continue with the text, with the recipient countries where adopted children live, but the countries mentioned, among which Canada, the United States, the FRAN, France, Sweden, did not support such a proposal, referring to the existence of a more effective multilateral mechanism, namely the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children." So we don't have interstate agreements, we don't ratify the convention -- and we leave the situation completely uncontrollable when Mr. Krueger personally writes in his native tongue reports in Ukraine that children are feeling great, and they're being raised very well. And in the meantime, the kids are killing them and we can't verify it in any way. Next thing you know, who's doing it. commercial, coma, middle-class -- that's what the law says -- we're not allowed to do -- right. But on the other hand, intermediaries create small businesses, private enterprises, excuse me, people who have done this hairdressing, guards, drivers who have nothing to do with interstate adoption and adoption in general. The same notarial offices approve of the relevant acts. Please tell me what this means, is there an element of corruption in this? Is there an element of child trafficking, or is it not? Hence, the document is indeed hard, and there must be appropriate comments and warnings. And I fully agree with the Minister of Justice here on the conclusions, and yet we believe that the law must be adopted as a basis and move on. Otherwise, we're going to lose, sorry, we're going to find out who's "breathing" illegal, illegal adoption and who's using it for their criminal purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u58	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Sergey Podgorny will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, there are several problems regarding Ukraine’s accession to this convention, including today’s decision. The first problem is that we cannot vote on the basis of ratification documents. So we either have to make a decision today or we have to make a decision on the law of adoption. joining us in the convention, or not joining us. The previous report correctly said that this was a very controversial subject and a very complex subject. And what it is is, if I make this kind of sense right now, I think everyone will agree with it that it's a means to adopt children? Consider, then, the institution itself for mediation in the adoption of children. How mediators can be interested without having the commercial benefit of being properly adopted as Ukrainian children by foreigners. There's no such thing. Thus, the institution of mediation as such is wrong. And not as it is now, when any natural person can do anything, but I honestly don't like what's being offered at the convention when it's being done by certain authorized public organizations. Authorized to what? Mediation? Second of all, we need to talk about him, too. At the convention, and I read it, as did my colleague Karmazin, and a good phrase is that she owes her country to the State of origin to exercise control in a comprehensive manner. Can you please tell me how? What reports? Do you realize that this is full of formalism, that there's nothing serious about it? And the last topic, unpopular, I picked it up again yesterday. Please tell us, in many European countries, are homosexual families allowed? Are they allowed or not? Permission granted. The first members of the State welcome their ministers to join such families. I have a question, and who will control the issue that adoption takes place in the family, not in other families? There will be no control. So I think we need to take this seriously, there is no antidemocracy here, but a child who lives in a family is not ordinary, so we will say so, he is aware, and a model of further behavior is imposed on him, including in the family plan that dominates this family. Who can guarantee what kind of family they will be in if ministers allow such same - sex marriages in highly civilized European countries? So it seems to me that this convention and the very fact that Ukraine is still working on it. In fact, it's a very controversial and vague subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, let me say to the author of one of the bills, with respect to our colleague Zarubinsky, that fortunately, we have in the Family Code a very clear assumption of the inability of the things he was talking about. We did not ban single - sex marriages, which were single - sex marriages, even if there was no foreigner in the marriage. Our Family Code forbids adoption of our child if a foreigner is not married. We came from the point that if a foreigner was unable to create a family, he could not raise a child. That's why I'm saying this before we don't scare people right now. Because in fact, he did, and we in the Family Code took away these possible moments that Mr. Oleg was talking about. There is no such possibility in Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u61	Eugene Suslov. The right to speak is given to him by his colleague Podgorny. Kirilo Kulikov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u62	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, it's kind of a weird situation for me right now in this room. Let me explain why. Most raise the question that this convention is not necessary, because, first of all, it is something more indignant than mediation, against so-called marriages that are not normal for Ukraine. But the other situation, I want to fill in when this convention was raised last time, is the same thing. And I passed a bill that prohibited the adoption of children in general, which is article 213 of the Ukrainian Family Code, if there are no agreements between Ukraine and the country where our children are adopted. Because to me, as a Ukrainian citizen, as a father, the first question is that we don't control at all how our children are treated abroad. We need to determine if we can't control whether we need adoption. Because if someone in this room says that we don't have adoption abroad right now in Ukraine, I'm counting on it to be, let's put it mildly, very deceptive. Because children are now being adopted. And now there's no control over our children. I'm surprised we're saying in numbers that we've managed to bring back about 60 with 150 children, and we haven't come back to the country somewhere, and that's what we're talking about. How can we give our children, our Ukrainians abroad, when we don't know what's going on with them. I'm not going to give examples of what's really going on in a pretty not-so-good way of treating our children. So I want us to be clear in one thing, that, yes, a difficult convention, yes, problems exist, yes, really, let's say we need to solve for ourselves once and for all: or we don't adopt children at all, we don't give them abroad, because in statistics, I want to tell you that now it's a much larger turn of Ukrainians to adopt these children than foreigners. And I want to tell you, the problem is that there is no problem right now and they can't adopt children under five years of age, because it's a very large queue, and it takes a certain amount of connection to adopt a Ukrainian child. So let's make a judgmental decision, if we're going to leave it. To leave the situation, more loyally, as it is, impossible to understand clearly what we must do once and for all in this direction. If we don't agree and we can't go overboard to ban adoption of children without international agreements, and in this room we've seen that my law has been tried twice at least not to accept, but grateful that we have accepted the second reading. Or if we don't agree to that, so we don't have any other way of joining a convention that's hard not to work in that direction. Because it is impossible to leave the situation as it is. Once again, I urge everyone to consider this situation and at the very least.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u63	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u64	So I would like to say that, personally, I would like to stress once again, last time I was against this convention, but as I got into this problem and looked at how it was happening right now, I'm still calling, however hard this might be, but I'm joining the convention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u65	Kirilo Kulikov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I've heard a lot of different thoughts, but I want to say that among many of you, I'm a person who's been practically working on the international adoption of children. I see the State Commissioner of Human Rights here, I respect her position. But back in 2005, we learned that there was a girl from Ukraine in the family who adopted children. There was another story when the American children were taken to the family, now you're talking about same-sex marriages, one person took 12 boys from Ukraine, then the boys went back to Ukraine, and what they were saying, I don't want everyone in this room to hear. I want to say one thing: the main thing is reporting in this convention, reporting on the situation, on the life of the child. This allows Ukrainian consular institutions to check how these children live, it is very and very important. Once again, if we start a discussion with you now, a long, long discussion of how to adopt a child, it will affect the lives of each individual child. A child’s life is not worth the entire hall because there, abroad, children who have AIDS who suffer from hepatitis are adopted, and our own adoption should be a beautiful baby, blue eyes, two hands, and they adopt the sick. If we stop this process now, we will not allow our children to be happy. And I think that our entire office costs one child's life, so we don't talk about mediation services, they do, they do, because it's a very, very troublesome procedure, and a lot of crooks make money on it. That is why the question today concerns the lives of each individual child. And I call on each of you, let's still support this, we can bring this convention in order, but I'm asking everyone to understand, today is the life of one child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u67	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of Regions, will be followed by John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u68	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I will personally vote against the ratification of this agreement. Why? At first glance, if we look at really, the ratification document is missing, then there's no way of protecting children who are adopted, and there's a lot of them in years of independence, there's a lot of them abroad, and there's already a lot of them adults. On the other hand, there are no bilateral agreements that do not seem to allow officials to control them. In fact, it must be admitted honestly that our consular and embassy relations with those or other countries, children who. Our children who are adopted in those lands are not enough. I'd say there are completely no mechanisms that allow these children to control or ensure their rights. What should the country do? In my opinion, we need our state and the ministry to do the first thing, the ministry that cares about this issue -- to make such a legislative base -- so that we don't have any children who need to be adopted abroad. We have enough in Ukraine today that have no children, and we could gladly do so. But what must be done on the part of the State? We just have to create the right conditions for adoption of children, so first of all, to solve social problems in housing, to provide money support, and many, many other moments. If the state had given this enough weight on the budget and provided, in the first piece of funding, I think we would have found a lot of these children inside their parents' country. And that would enable us to control us through the services that are appropriate. What should I do, in my opinion? In my opinion, first of all, I would say that there is no need to maintain this agreement. Secondly, we need to look at the legislative framework and create all the conditions for us to be so disgraceful in the 21st century as children who don't have parents at all. The first step is to resolve social issues for those parents who are ready or who are taking their children for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u69	Andrew Schlell, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u70	Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, I would like to point out that there are no people in this room who want to hurt our children. There's no one here. But we just have to come up here strictly, well, as legislators to solve this problem. Yeah, we need to ratify the convention, I totally agree. And so many times, six times, the question was asked in the session room. But I'd just like to put it here in the presence of everyone just, well, not a warning, but a challenge to Kabmin. Because when we want to talk about ratification in the first, in the second reading, it's not there. We can only ratify any convention when we have either made a warning or not made a statement. Now I think we should have given our Cabinet of Ministers a number of warnings. Experts, and I agree with them, counted up to 20 warnings. Because even if Ukrainian legislation in a field that intersects with the convention has to make these warnings. Therefore, please do not translate from a sick person’s head into a healthy person. You were supposed to bring a ready ratification document into the session room. You were supposed to bring in the warnings we were supposed to discuss here, not the convention itself. Because we've discussed it dozens of times on the Supreme Council committees. To discuss, to add further warnings, to cancel those that we have made and are already ready, not to bring the marginal product into the session room. I understand that when you go abroad, they say, "Ratify the convention, follow democracy, don't put innocent people in jail." Clearly, it is easier for you to ratify the convention. It's clear that you're easier to report such nonsense, as you think. But it's not really stupid, it's actually the fate of our children, of our future, in principle the fate of those for whom we work here, well, who works and who doesn't, and we write laws and we accept them. Because if we act in this way, we're going to treat that, that, that's where you are, you're going to vote, and we're going to see that. This, once again, is a crime on the part of Kabmina to bring such ratification documents to the session room. And I say again that both our faction and I, personally on a committee in foreign affairs, claimed that the convention was necessary. But a warning is needed to accept this convention. These warnings should be offered by the Cabinet of Ministers, discussed in the session room, and only then passed. To support these warnings and only with them, the convention in Ukraine will work with these warnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, one minute. Just a minute. Let's be. Just a minute. Just a minute. You're not in charge yet. Ivan Kirilenko gave you the right to speak, didn't he? You, when you pass on the right to speak, say it, not wave your hands, that you pass on the right to speak to Yuri Prokopczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u72	May I have a word with you, Mr. Chairman, Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u73	Thank you very much. It's just like that. And I would like, the honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, to bring us back, who is the initiator of the legislative initiative, that is, the President of Ukraine. What's more, we've talked about reporting here and I'm not going to talk about it. This document is indeed what the world community requires. It is necessary, but more is needed for Ukraine. Why? Repeatedly, including committee meetings and committee hearings were held on this issue to the Committee on Legal Protection. One of the initiators of this issue was then Deputy Vladimir Sovkovic. A group was formed, as it was discovered that some 300 children were lost in general today. Dear colleagues, consider that there are no bilateral agreements, there is no document to regulate this issue. And what do we have today? We have corruption schemes for those who really attract children, we have some scandals that have already taken place, including in areas that have been called, and other areas, all over Ukraine. Worst of all, the fate of those children who have already been taken abroad cannot be traced at all, for at the consulates of ours, one person who is in the state cannot travel around, for example, the whole of America or some other major state. I am also against how a person, as a citizen, can take children from Ukraine to bear new lambs. I'm against it. However, the real facts were listed here when children are taken away from the sick, who have absolutely no hope anymore, because only hepatitis C, which is a problem in Ukraine today and which quietly destroys Ukrainians, is virtually untreated, if treated, for such money that a private Ukrainian can never afford it, are children with other diseases. And when we don't have any document that regulates these issues, we just put them on the floor, and then there's the question that someone became a donor there, someone changed their family name, and they're all missing. So once again, I call on everyone, the document is complicated, it's been talked about over and over again, but we need to move in this direction. I believe that the President who passed this bill is signaling that today this document is necessary. It may be appropriate to accept this convention, not a warning, but, in view of its acceptance, so - called notes, suggestions. Taking into account what Comrade Carmazin said and taking into account what is here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u74	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u76	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our speeches on this subject. In accordance with article 34 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to speak on this subject. Nina Ivanovna Karpacheva – Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u77	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you for being able to address today when discussing an extremely difficult and painful issue. But I'll start with a particular example. We are invited to legalize intermediaries in Ukraine who are banned by the Criminal and Family Code in Ukraine. It was banned in 1996 when the parliamentary commission of inquiry in this session hall tried, after all, to order our children out on the list, when the heads of the Reich administrations, as animals, were allowed and our children were exported on the list. We've passed on the function to the courts, we've taken the best of what's in this convention, and which corresponds to the national, I emphasize, the interests of Ukraine. We've created a state-level, I stress, state-owned orphanage and adoption facility, and we've secured it exclusively outside the state, which is its responsibility under the main convention of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Today, in 2005, we faced this situation that three boys were taken out of the Hersonian house by pedophile Kruger, who is now in prison. The Americans, absolutely fair, gave him 75 years. But during this time, he sexually abused our children because it was the social American organization, the Californian organization that we are now being asked to legalize in Ukraine, that gave him permission and guaranteed to Ukraine that this person had no problem with the law. And it has now been discovered that in the course of the Ombudsman’s conduct, he was drawn even in America, to the adoption of our children, to the sexual harassment of responsibility. Therefore, it is a crime to place and translate a public function into a social organization. And I'm asking the MPs to understand that. The main thing is that adoption, after all, should be exclusively national, our priority should be national adoption. Exclusion must be when our orphans' families abroad are ready to adopt them or there is some sort of incurable disease in Ukraine. It's said that our people don't take children with different diseases, including HIV/AIDS, that's not true. The very consistent steps taken by the Supreme Council have led to our citizens taking even children with HIV/AIDS today. And it was said that the turn was in Ukraine. My dear colleagues, we need to bring the state into order for today. I would like the question of State adoption to be dealt with in the same way with pain as lobbying on the fifth time in the Supreme Council -- you'll just think about it! – The Hague Convention of Private International Law. This is not Ukraine’s duty. The same countries were adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u78	Complete, please, Nina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u79	The same countries adopted adoptions that interested brothers, especially white children, the white race for adoption, and those that were put on their knees. I propose that today we bring this issue in order because of legislation, to settle those issues that are still unresolved. Our diplomats who tried to join this family on Kruger's case, by the way, to meet the children who, under our law, kept their citizenship, what did they say? [[I was the author of this law, it's the only exclusive case, until I was 18 years old, the Ukrainian legislator keeps our Ukrainian legislation for orphans.]] It was the Department of Social Services in Bakersfield that refused to cooperate with the General Consulate of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u80	Thank you, Nina Ivanovna. Dear National Deputies! Question completed. I ask the secretariat once again to call on the people's deputies to make a decision. Dear colleagues, I beg you, there is no motive, they have already spoken. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to say, "Read the Rules." Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if we can arrange for the secretariat to make an appropriate announcement in 10 minutes before the vote. If MPs work on committees, they should know that within 10 minutes we need to approach the session room for voting. Will there be a closing word from the Cabinet of Ministers? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u81	I would like to address, really, the distinguished national MPs and just say that at the time that the Supreme Council is actually considering, I would like to have steps to take to meet children who have a fair right to happiness. And if we're talking today about creating conditions, we need to create, but within the legislative field. Today, it has been said that there are many obstacles in the Family Code that do not allow adoptions of children who are not full of families, others, their orientations, and so forth. But on the other hand, as I said before, one person at the consulate today cannot control the continuation of life up to the age of 18 of our children who are abroad. That's why I, on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers, from the Ministry of Education and Science, young people and sports, would like to move towards a legislative field that will enable and control and provide conditions for the future happiness of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u82	Honourable national MPs, given the mood, obviously we need to make an agreed decision, invite the President of Ukraine to take into account the arguments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and make appropriate warnings to this project. Once again, I would like to propose to the President of Ukraine, taking into account the mood here and the discussions that we have had, to take a closer look at this document and to offer appropriate safeguards to guarantee the safety of our children. In addition, we obviously need to consider the question of being empowered from the rights of the child, for the problem needs special attention in this regard. So, honourable colleagues, if you don't mind, I'd like to put to the vote a proposal that is formulated by the committee: to invite the President of Ukraine to make appropriate warnings to this agreement so that we can approve it. Dear colleagues, calm down! I put to the vote the proposal contained in the draft decision, and more specifically, the decision of the committee: the return of the subject to the legislative initiative of the document. Please vote. [[11:43:29]] For 234 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, for they are. The factions, please. Region Party – 170, "BUT – "Fathership" – 6, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 5, Communists – 8, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, People's Party – 20. Dear colleagues, since we have taken a decision on document 0201, we need to decide automatically on the return to work and on the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Inter-State Adoption, because we have not adopted a convention. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to return to the subject of the legislative initiative of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Inter-State Adoption. [[Registration number 7496]] Please vote. [[11:44:52]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we were about to consider a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine. [[on the supervision of law enforcement by counter-investigative bodies]] At the same time, the author of the bill, National MP Sergei Mishchenko, addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a letter informing him that he was withdrawing the bill. So I'm voting for a motion to withdraw from the draft law, registration number 7261, to amend certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the supervision of law enforcement by counter-investigative bodies]] Please vote. [[11:46:01]] For 312
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u83	Don't bother. In the Rules, show me what's written.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u84	Let me see, let me see. You'll insist later. Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on Amendments to Section X, paragraphs 14 and 15, of the Ukraine Code of Lands Sales is now under review. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski. The committee responsible is Head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Kaletnik Grigory Mikolayovich. Since the committee considered it yesterday, the co-reporter is the chairman of the committee. Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u85	Good afternoon! Good afternoon, Ukraine! Vladimir Mikhailovich, are we looking at a full program?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u86	There was no proposal, as far as the proposal was concerned, I'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u87	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u88	It's too late.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u89	It's late, it's late, it's late. Dear colleagues, at times a man must wake up at Zakarpat in the morning and see that the water is already under the bed on which he sleeps. He begins to pray to the Lord God and asks that the Lord God help him. In the meantime, the water is coming in and out. He climbs up, he climbs up the attic, and on the attic he begins to pray to God and ask the Lord to help him and save him. The water rises even higher, it climbs up to the roof, and still prays to the Lord and prays, “Help, help, help!” And it's sinking. And when he is sunk before the Lord God, he says: “Lord, why have you not saved me? I asked you to do it!" He says, “I sent you help three times. Once a man on a boat came up to you, the second time at the gate. You disobeyed. Because it's right that you drowned." I said that before there was one, last, third chance in the country to get up, really, from your knees, and somehow to be sure of tomorrow and after tomorrow. We have already completely lost through the free policy of many generations of politicians, and those that are here, and those that are no longer, because we have actually made free industrial privatization. And there was a deindustrialization of Ukraine, because they had been bankrupted by our large prestigious enterprises, which were later sold at no cost, they didn't have a penny of money, they just had capital coming out of them. And today, in fact, Ukraine, if we have some kind of industry, it is pre - Flood, which nobody cares about. The last thing we have left is that we're here today, let's face it, but we still have, this is Ukrainian land with you. It happened that we have about one third of all the world’s black lands. Judging by that, if we make another mistake, I say again, we're going to be completely out of nothing, naked and bare. That's why the question today is about our land reform. I just want to take the opportunity to remind both Vladimir Mikhailovich, and many who are listening to us today, here are the beautiful ones from the Presidential, Presidential Program of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, which I have in my hands: the revision of all agricultural lands, the elimination of abuses, the cancellation of illegal purchase-sales operations, the attraction to criminal liability of land frauders. That's wonderful! Offering free land ownership documents. Yulia Timoshenko did so, although it was stopped in places by all without exception by completely officials. But it's a beautiful idea. State registration of renters and strict government control of the renters. Industrious lending of farms that use land pies for direct purposes. State support for agricultural producers, assistance with market access. Wonderful, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, bravo, wonderful idea absolutely! What do we have today in Ukraine with the earth? Because what Lithuania took for its program is taken from the painful issues that are in the village today. The question of the fact that the Ukrainian village is being destroyed today has already become a banal issue. We are no longer talking about the source of spirituality. Today, even this is a source of more spiritual ingenuity. Because the village was either asleep or morally low, it can no longer be below. We are well aware that the earth market, the shadow market of the land in Ukraine, exists. It exists, and there is a huge amount of money going around. Is it possible to acquire land today, even when the moratorium is in effect? Of course you can. Around many laws, articles of laws, and so forth. You could form on anyone, you could form as a gift, let's say there. All of this is for today. According to some researchers, some 60 percent of Ukrainian lands are in fact privately owned. Those people sitting in the shadows, in the bushes and waiting, just waiting for the moratorium to be removed and they can take this land. I'd like to dispel a few myths that exist around the problem of Ukrainian land. This, for example, speaks of what he said if taken off. By the way, I'd like to point out that Yulia Timoshenko's Block, we're in some position here just a little bit of a run-in with the Communist position, that is to say, to continue the moratorium. But I would like to state that we do not agree with them that the earth should not be a commodity. In the '90s, when I first went to the National MPs, I remember in the Lighthouse, when I was speaking, I was speaking boldly, saying that the land should become private property, and I was shouted out of the hall: "Take away what there is, we don't know what to do with it." But after three or four years, people would come to the reception and demand that I get the wrong line, and I didn't get the cut and the same. As a result, it is clear that things have changed today. Because if anyone thinks that after that, the state will get control and there will be very transparent land relations, it's obviously wrong. Because if there is a Komem, will there be any other institution that can guarantee that it will not be corrupt, all the more so in our country? Because of this, it is not a guarantee either. Will the Investors Come to Us? I don't think investors today are going to start like this, you know, you know, ho, putting money into Ukrainian land right now, because there's going to be an immediate question: are they going to be huge assignments that can be passed on to them, or are those grasshoppers of the land that peasants today have in the form of just one piece of paper? And you can see, today he can't sell this land because it exists in some great array and how to get to it. So there's a lot of problems. But I'm completing, or approaching completion, what I'm saying is that we're usually "for" the market of the earth, sooner or later it's going to be. But if we do this today, because we have already talked about how many times we have demanded that there be a law on the market of the earth, there is no law to this day. Someone will tell me it was an accident. I think it's not an accident, it's stopped deliberately, so that the shadow situation that is in Ukraine today, to keep it going, it's probably convenient for many. For example, Vladimir Mikhailovich asked questions in his program, and this issue has been discussed many times here, about having a land bank. Where's that land bank? Today, a few banks, such as those that invest land there, do not exist today. Please tell me, how can we film a moratorium today when we don't have prices? Who can compare the value of the earth, for example, on Galicina and the value of the land in Hersonland, is it not the same or the same? Land market. Today someone's obviously counting on some small segment of those people who are ready, give me half a liter, there or 100 dollars to sell their land supply, I don't think it's worth it. Because of this, I think it would be very wise if we were with you without rushing to lose, once again, Ukraine's last chance to rise economically. This is the biggest problem today, it's not even gas, it's not oil, although it's also very important, it's the most important problem facing humanity today, it's a food crisis that's literally coming into motion at a very rapid rate, and for Ukraine it's just, well, the Lord God gives us this chance: take this land. However, I would like those who listen to me to understand it does not mean that if there is a market for the earth tomorrow and we privatize the land, we will be rich at the expense of food tomorrow. But the first step is to solve the problem of the earth, the second step is to modernize agriculture, is to set world standards for agricultural production, as it were. Because the author of this bill, I urge and ask you to accept, continue today's moratorium, but not just continue to do so, you know, put it to sleep and forget, and continue to do so, so that we have the opportunity to work on the cool, at least less closely connected to the ideal of land market laws, accounting for agricultural land. The entire list of laws, I will not waste on them the time that Ukraine needs so much and so much today. There's another problem, since we're going to adopt these laws, it doesn't mean we can open all of these tomorrow, take all the taboos off for sale. Because it is still necessary to bring the Ukrainian peasant's consciousness to the owners of the pies that are to prove to them the essence of the bill. It's a huge, huge job, to some extent even ideological, to explain to people how to sell land, how to do it, so they don't get high again, and the rest, look, vote as your conscience tells you. I'm convinced that we need to continue the moratorium and meet the conditions that we've talked about here before.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u91	Vladimir Bondarenko. The problem that is being addressed is, of course, very different in its direction and it is possible to talk about the benefits and the negatives. Of course, one of the downsides that is today is uncertainty with the ground, and parallel activity, including through the judicial authorities, because of the various underlying documents it's all going into big latifunds. I think that when we work on the bill, if we continue to work on it, we have to anticipate some of the rights of the area where this land is located for its social development. Otherwise we're just going to break down the problems of agriculture from the social problems of the village. Do you think that these are problems or that they can be solved separately? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u92	Volodymyr Dmitrovich, Your Honor, I'm sure you can. The need for political will and the will of parliament can, of course, be used in the Ukrainian Earth Code, perhaps even in "Transitional Positions" and in article 10 to which I submit my proposals. But I think we'd win a lot more if we were to look at the problems you're talking about as a matter of law. Because it's not a secret that all the houses of culture in the villages are actually closed today, that the village has absolutely nothing left to fix, nothing. And these are the latifundists that are today, but they are, but very much depends, let's say, on their morals and their consciences. [[few]] I can mention here our former colleague, Vladimir Bortnik, who is holding, rents land in the Kagarlic district, which is constantly investing funds, say, there and in rural medicine and so forth. But I could call it another, by the way, our former colleague, but I'm not going to call his last name, which actually doesn't add anything today, even though he's renting about 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u93	Yuri Odarchenko, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u94	Yuri Odarchenko, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear Volodymyr Alexanderovich! I have this question, and the authorities, by pushing these bills, it tells me that the land market will open the way to investment in agriculture. Please tell me what investments can be at the present value of the land when a peasant owns 5 or 6 hectares and this land value can be, there, 50 or 70,000 dollars. What are the innovations, the investments? Is this scheme, which is proposed by power, an open road to monopolizing the land and to monopolizing it in general, which will lead to an inevitable increase in the price of products? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u95	A very important question. I have to tell you, if you put your hand on your heart, we know that today about 5 to 7 percent of rich people in Ukraine are actually holding the entire capital. About 80 percent of the people are total lumpane today. It's true, you're not going anywhere. Please tell me, if we're shooting a moratorium, who can buy this land tomorrow? Those with large sums of money today will be 10 times richer tomorrow. Those who are poor today will be 10 times poorer tomorrow. Here's the answer to your questions. And yet another argument is why it is necessary to continue the moratorium. Do you know what countries have made a colossal breakthrough today in the agricultural sector? You'll be surprised, Albania. The poor country with Enver Hodge, where there were the same colognes that we were and so forth. Today, she made a colossal burst. The second place after that is Croatia. A little. Yeah, you're gonna win them a little bit. But it takes political will first. And we're trying to hide everything and turn it into a shadow mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u96	Last question, Uklov poses, the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u97	Vladimir Aleksandrovich, I supported your bill, but the question is, you're the MP of the first call, and you remember a few of your colleagues liked to say that the market decides everything that needs to be privatized immediately should be privatized. They've been privatized. As a result, new technologies don't invest in those factories, new factories don't build. Now we have a new god of capitalism, called the market of the earth. And you talked about him the same way. Or maybe even give up on this principle, to put the market in the ground. After all, there are countries that live beautifully without private property on earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u98	The question is questionable. I can't agree with you completely. Just like I can't completely reject, let's say, your opinion. Because the Poles carried out privatization, both large and small, of privatization. By the way, in the agricultural sector, Poles are very, very successful today. I wouldn't say that Poles are more industrious than the Ukrainians, more resilient than we are, than our parents, who worked in these colognes, there is no nation at all. Because of this, my dear colleague, it's not about doing privatization or not doing it, it's about how to do it. Because privatization, I say again, was carried out by almost all the post-Radians republics, and by those that were part of the Warsaw Treaty, but some did it successfully, including by lands where there is no land in fact, and industry was small. Because of that, our main tragedy -- I conclude -- is that businessmen, give me what I say, go into politics. If businessmen were involved in business and politicians were involved in politics and laws, we would have much more order. This is what I see as the root cause of the mistakes that have taken place in Ukraine. And someone wants to keep making these mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u99	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, suggestions. Because now. Thank you. Since we need to announce a break right now, let's do it this way. We will listen to the report and discuss it after a break. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our consideration of the draft Act amending sections 14 and 15 of Section X of the Code of Land sales. Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kaletnik Grigory Mikolayovich. Please, the committee's decision. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u101	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Members of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations discussed the bill and pointed out that the proposed changes to the "Transitional Provisions" of Ukraine's Land Code were quite premature. First of all, the year has just begun. Laws on land regulation are now being actively drafted. In addition, I would like to highlight and draw the attention of everyone who, as early as January, had adopted a decision and initiated a consideration of such an important issue at parliamentary hearings. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations has already held two committee hearings, attended from all regions of Ukraine, presented sciences, presented various categories of workers, including owners of ponds, farmers, representatives of local governments, executive authorities. Then we have more than 50 speakers at these two committee hearings, and we have a lot of thoughts, valuable proposals for the urgent regulation of land legislation, and no one is set up to sit behind a wall like a moratorium. On March 23rd, there will be parliamentary hearings in this room on the theme "The Earth in the Ukrainian Fate. The situation in the land area. Law enforcement of land relations and the practice of implementing it." That is why we have no right to allow further development of the shadow market of the earth. And therefore, I would like to address everyone and everyone who listens and looks at us again today. Is there a moratorium today? Yeah. And the shadow market of the earth, is there a sale of land? There is and it's evolving. And that's what even the author of the proposed bill said. So we need to work on and adopt laws today, or we need to move this wall again, which allows us to continue to develop and improve shadow development. Shadow circle of the earth? And it's not the budget, it's not the village, it's the supporters who find the gaps in legislation and get rich. From this point of view, it is impossible to close the moratorium and pretend to be a hero and a fighter for the people. Today we need to work out drafts, cover up all shadow schemes, and lead to the effective use of the land for the benefit of the people of Ukraine, a nation that has a national interest in doing so. And it needs to be done not by slogans, but by giving people an answer that the new laws will not allow the sale of land to foreign citizens and legal persons, that the land we see not as a market item, how the wallpapers and secondhand are sold, but, above all, the land is a living organism that needs to be nurtured and that is to serve as the main mission -- it is to feed the people, it is to ensure Ukraine's food security and to create export potential to make more money for Ukraine's development in the form of currency in the world markets. For this legislation is not the case, fellow believers, and there are many examples, as this rostrum was optimistically quoted here. And I'll tell you why there are no such examples. Because we need to understand that no one has as unique a phenomenon as the Ukrainian village. And we know that the village is the cradle of Ukraine. So in land law we have to write articles that will strengthen the village, its infrastructure, its standard of living, not the graves of this village. We really need the issue of land legislation to get out of the political and interfractional contests, it's very serious, it's very responsible to the people, and to the history, to our parents, to the forerunners of all ages. So let's work here professionally. As the committee considered the matter, it decided to return to the matter after the parliamentary hearings in the ninth session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u102	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, if you have a question for the committee, please sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Andrey Pavlovski, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u103	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u104	Vladimir Yavorowski. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u105	Dear colleague, dear reporter! Let it remain on your conscience that someone there wants to gain glory in this regard. We would never have asked that question, I wouldn't have thought of the question of the continuation of the moratorium, because we are a market-oriented political segment. When cultural problems arise, I sit down and make these laws or members of my committee. You're speaking now, and you're starting to explain to me and to the Ukrainian people that you can do all of this today. Where are your laws? You're the head of the committee, well, you're preparing the Land Market Act. You don't want to prepare it, cadastre, please make laws and the moratorium problem will disappear right away. You don't do that. Why don't you? And the last. When we passed privatization laws on the first page, we asked everywhere for guidance on where you took money for privatization and so forth. Why are all these questions now gone?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u106	Well, there's practically nothing to answer. I'm surprised that the drafter of the land bill is completely incompetent in what is happening today in legislation in drafting the law. I'm sorry, so take it from you. I can't tell you anything else. You don't even own the information, how many bills today, the State Land cadastre about the land market, other property laws and so on. So I don't want to have a discussion with you at all, because you had a very nice start when you were talking about your story, your story, and all that, in fact, by law, you're sorry. Take care of your business.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u107	Incision, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u108	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u109	Vladimir Yavorowski. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u110	Dear reporter! Well, first of all, I'd just like to ask you a lot and I want to remind you. I've been a national MP since 1989, because it's not a fairy tale. If you have nothing to say, you say, "Nothing to say to me." And I'm asking you, if you don't mind, don't stop. I'm just as much a national MP as you are. And if you think I'm worse than you because I write books and you don't write them. That's why I would very simply ask you, don't resort to haughtiness if you don't have any arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u112	Vladimir Karpuk, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u113	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Please pass the word to Volodymyr, oh, I'm sorry, John Stoyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u114	Ivan Stojko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u115	Thank you. Ivan Stojko, party "For Ukraine!".. Dear reporter! Indeed, Ukraine is a unique country because it has wealth that the world does not have. And until the Ukrainians are masters of their land, the real masters, and not the kind of paper that they are today, who are given, give gifts, the flax of some grain for those hectares, it is unjust. That is why we must approach the real property of the earth sooner or later. And there's a lot of warnings to be made. I think we'll do it in this room. But I have a question, please tell me, as a specialist, do you know any country that has succeeded without the land market itself, without private ownership of the land and without the land market?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u116	Thank you for asking. The world has just had examples of significant advances in the use, efficient use of land in both state ownership and private ownership. And that's why we're not a panacea today, and we're already seeing for ourselves that when we're saying that when we're rocking the earth, we're going to find an effective host, we're going to go back to larger markets today, because we can't produce on it, on small, small farms, competitive in the world, in the world markets of agricultural production. So, really, I thank you for such a good question: We all need to join today. And I'm reminding you again, as I said in my report: we have to put down political competitions and interfractional competitions. We invite you to make suggestions. The committee is actively working on legislation today. Please, together, we will form land legislation for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, the questions have been answered. Let's move on to the discussion. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Please put your name on the information board. Yes, I'd like you to sign up for the deputies. Yes, I'd like your name taken out. Dear colleagues, let's take 30 minutes to discuss. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please. He's handing over Paul to Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u118	Paul Zebravsky, "Ukrainian Platform". Dear colleagues, in principle, in the state where the earth is today, we have repeatedly talked about it, it cannot be, because, in large account, we are now half pregnant. So there's a limited right to ownership of the land, this right is restricted. And that's why the state has to be defined both in the session room and in society we have to determine if we're going back to government property, so the state has to concentrate financial resources and buy land. And there are examples of farming, when there's a state land owned, this is the same Holland and the same China where efficient farming is, and there are market mechanisms -- that's Poland. And because of us, of course, we do. But the situation is that we have to understand what we want to build, which model do we want to build for agriculture? If we want to make latifundium, that's one question. Right now, the question in society has to be that, since 2012, the moratorium will be suspended, more faithfully, canceled. What Is Happening in the Earth Market? If you bought long-term rental companies 100 dollars per acre, today the prices went up -- 200 to 300 dollars per acre. Today, some offices have maps that are written down, which company, who is behind this company, rents land and gathers after the moratorium has been abolished to offer principles that these tenants will not be able to refuse. In fact, for today 2-3 enough serious groups want to concentrate in their hands the entire array of agricultural land and everyone in Parliament knows about it, everyone understands it. Without substantive elaboration of those bills that were discussed, both the land market, and the land cadastre, and the definition of a land mortgage bank, and so on, talk about the withdrawal of the moratorium unpredictably. So for today we have to build, first of all, we have to make it clear that there can't be latifons in Ukraine. You do realize that if there's 50 to 60 percent in the area of a single owner, he's going to be the owner of that area. Do we understand that? We understand. If there's so much latifundium in the area, it's going to be both political and administrative, the only master. Without such trimmings, without such division, the restrictions of latifundium cannot be talked about taking the moratorium off the ground. I'm in favour of the land market, but at this stage, I'm convinced that Mr. Yavorowski's law must be upheld before these issues are resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u119	Thank you. And it would be nice if you called these names, you say they all know. So let's say. I don't know, for example. Please give me a call. What are we hiding? Vladimir Zubanov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Sergey Gordienko will be next. Basil Kiselov, please, faction of the Party of the Regions. Sergei Gordienko is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, as the author of the bill, I will start with allegories. And I'm going to remind you of the phrase of Soviet times when they said that in football and in agriculture, everyone's looking at it. Now, draw a conclusion. So as we continue the moratorium on land privatization, on the market for agricultural land, we rob our citizens. To date, nearly seven million Ukrainian citizens have obtained ownership and ownership of land, 27 million acres [27 million ha] of 41 million acres [41 million ha] of agricultural land, and this land is one third of its capacity. Because there is no master. Exhausted with reeds, consumed with sunflowers, and ended with the taking of new lands, they hurl, for there is no master in the earth. And now, essentially. According to the experts, and this is what we heard in the presentation by the distinguished project author, and the committee was headed, and we heard questions from colleagues of the project's actor who were talking about today's shadow market on the ground. Experts say that more than four million hectares of land under different schemes -- donation, exchange, mortgage -- during the operation of this hole, which exists between the two moratoriums -- 10-17 days ago, it was three times when the old action ended, no new moratorium was imposed, no introduction, and in the meantime all of this is documented. So can we, knowing that, continue to play? Who are we kidding? Where's the logic? And, dear fellows, we need to urgently, here I fully support the author of the project, to finalize the Law on Earth cadastre, the Law on Earth Market. And in the Law on the Market of the Earth, to foresee that the change in the purpose of the land’s agricultural assignment cannot be altered in any way without the decision of the Supreme Council. Just like we're changing the boundaries of cities today, population points, you know that. We're the only ones here. In addition, at least 10 years of land reselling must be prohibited. And those lands that haven't been used in two years in a row have to be repossessed free of charge. Because it was given free. And the Cabinet of Ministers has to create an agency to control the course of the earth's market. And they also need to rule over the lands of state ownership. And you don't have to scare people. It's gonna be okay. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes not to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u121	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Yavorowski of BUT will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u122	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! From this rostrum today, we hear the question repeatedly: What have we come to? So let's remember what we came from. And we came from highly organized agricultural production, which was the pride of Ukraine, Europe, and the world. And we would drive, we would marvel, and we would borrow, and we would borrow experience. We were a great competitor in the world agricultural market. And when we saw that we were this competitor, and we put criminal reforms on all the disadvantages that were introduced at the time of the reconstruction, we simply removed a competitor from the market through those reforms, destroying large commodity agricultural production. Today we see what happens to us when there are no balance sheets, no basic balance sheet for everything and everything. And we're dealing with the problem of both Greeks and sugar and more. First. What is being proposed today is, of course, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will, indeed, support the bill, because there can be no other. Next. To those who weep and shed crocodile tears from this rostrum, from the various airs that we have introduced the shadow market of the earth. I've been addressing and addressing the past presidents and today's, the Attorney General's, the law enforcement authorities, if you know, why don't you do it to stop it? And it's not done for one reason that everyone who says and doesn't say, they're involved in those shadow schemes. Let's not fool people in Ukraine and say that today the earth's movement in the world stops, today monopolises the right of states in every country to land and use it, look at the United States, more than 40 percent of the land has already been bought into the state, just, the federal fund, look how much in Europe. And yesterday, when Simonenko was speaking, he was telling you about the moments when, if you got the land, you couldn't give it to anyone for 30 years, 20 years. And to conclude, I want to say the following: the faction of the Company of Ukraine and the position of the Company that if it were to implement the land market, this land should be purchased by the state into its state property by the landowners. To organize on this basis a large agricultural commodity production, whether it's cooperatives or other forms of property, under the very strict control of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u123	Finish up. Ivan Kirilenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Sergey Grenyewecki of the People's Party, from the faction of the People's Party, will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! I've only got three minutes to name the facts without comment, and I've got a room to identify myself. Just ten years ago, in the United Nations Hall of the Secretary-General of the time, Kofi Annan, said: "In the coming years, mankind will face the very two great threats and challenges: the first threat is hunger and food shortages, and the second threat is the shortage of drinking water." And there's no threat of a mineral deficit and so on, they're going to darken up compared to the previous two. Then there was a little laugh in the hall because there was a terrible scandal at the WTO level between the United States of America and the European Union, other countries and major agricultural producers for huge subsidies to farmers, export subsidies, and so forth, all 10 years of food production. A historic moment has passed, today the world’s billion population, a clear United Nations statistic, is starving, two billion at the threshold. And in this connection, when everyone in the world knows that Ukraine is an agrarian country that can feed not only its people but also a few hundred million people. Please tell us what to do in this regard, to engage in extremely responsible, unpredictable, land reform, or to support the agriculture that can be done without any particular cost. Dear friends, the right question is: How? At least one word, at least one gesture, remove the administrative limit on the grain market and get 12 billion in cash now. The grain market, the exports are blocked, the 12 billion losses and the producers are already calculated. What kind of budget will cover these losses, my friend? That's one fact. Next. Dear colleagues, two laws on cadastre and the land market cannot be limited to unlocking the moratorium. Let's imagine the situation, one percent of the world's land is sold annually, but 70 percent is leased and another 70 percent are mortgaged in a special mortgage facility called a land or mortgage bank. We have such an institution, and we want to have the market of the earth to be capitalized so that we can get a long term loan. Do we have a banking facility? None. We insurance these risks or not, the bank has to insure these risks by issuing loans, there is no insurance market, and there's not much else. So let's think of it as a zodiac mass, and the average amount of pie is 4.2 hectares, 5 people sold, and the others didn't. And what about this land supply supply? And there's a lot and a lot of questions like that. Finally. I want everyone to hear that the cost of Ukrainian land of 41 million hectares is $300 billion. Those who do not believe, take the pen into your hands and count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u125	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u126	Five tons of acre of wheat today to sell 250 dollars is no problem, they're already growing 50 or more. Now figure out the sum of the capital invested, the sum, the business will be satisfied, if in 5 to 7 years it's going to pay off, take the multiplication and you'll get $300 billion. Today, the price is declared to be not more than 7-8 billion, which will be put into the land market. Friends! Let's count what we're dealing with, and who's gonna be fooled on this? A moratorium, a moratorium, and another moratorium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u127	Sergey Greenewecki of the factions of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues! One great writer said, "The nature of the nation is that of land relations." And before we talk about the main resource, the main national wealth, it seems to me that we would need to discuss and solve, in my opinion, four major problems for today's village. The first is the low technicality of manufacturing processes. The other one. We have not been able to resolve the issue of price distortions for agricultural products and rural production. The absence of long-term and smart loans for the agro-industrial complex. Let's think about it, the village today produces about 30 percent of the gross national product, and it returns just 16 percent in subsidies, and wild labor. Third. The problem of human resources is not solved for the village. In addition, the staff with higher education. Four. Economic science has played a negative role in the development of the village, so let's think about the concept of "unpredictable villages in Ukraine." When we're talking about this notion of land goods, I think it's a misunderstanding, because the earth as a product of nature can't be worth it. Only the right to own land may be bought and sold, and the rent may be as the price of the land. So when we're talking about taking down a moratorium, I think we need to take into account that farmers can remain ownership of the land as a resource of production. And they end up dependent on landowners, who are very often changing not only in quantity but also in the target area. And then the territorial communities lose their land rent, which is the main source of local budgets. That's something you should think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, we now have a meeting in the conference room at 13 o'clock with agrarians from all the areas that came to Kiev on the initiative, with the participation of government representatives. I have to run this meeting. Therefore, with your permission, Adam Ivanovich will continue the meetings. But I want to say one more thing. During the Conciliation Council, you and I have tried, in principle, to agree that we should not make decisions today before holding parliamentary hearings that should be real parliamentary hearings without political emotion, without shaking the air. And then to get into the decision-making system is the ones that people will need. Because we have this situation: if only the political power in power, they immediately stand up for the earth’s market. There is no government, and the moratorium is announced. Let us make decisions, not for ourselves or for ourselves, but for those who need them. So maybe we should go to this decision, to defer all of these issues to parliamentary hearings and to parliamentary hearings, not to take decisions that are not going to be taken by society in general. Maybe this would be one of the ways to find understanding in our session room. So let's maybe take this position into account. Thank you. Please. Lems is referring to Yuri Odarchenk. Alexander the Blacksmith will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, before we vote in favour of this bill, I would like to remind you, well, some steps of our past. The deputies who spoke from this rostrum made a parallel that today’s land market sales process resembled the processes that took place during the privatisation of state property. Dear colleagues, I want to give you an example of when power passed, and here is the question of trust in power, whether it can make this process purely legitimate for the benefit of people. To understand whether or not we need to look into the past. You know, it's a very revealing situation in Ukraine, it's a government holding company that combined 34 carbuilding companies. 34 companies of Kharkiv tractor factory, Herson combines And in that power, by the way, Prime Minister Yanukovich, who signed a decree that removes the State's restriction on the alienation of property, there was a dissuasion. How did it happen? 34 factories were switched to 1 computer and 2 diskettes for a software product. Imagine what kind of affair is going on. Has anything changed today in the process of building power, in the process of changing active persons? But nothing has changed, and we are all consciously aware today that this is an affair that will end in suffering for the rural population, for the rural population. You can do parallels, as was the case in Latin America, when these peasants, who were initially enjoying the sale of land, then found themselves in cities with plywood and ruberoids under 300 large cities, 400,000 people without even being touched by the police. They spent money and must now exist in such cities. I, my honourable colleagues, before we make decisions, and we must vote now for the continuation of the moratorium, I want to remind you of how the state of Israel was formed. With all due respect to this state, it was formed on the basis of the purchase of land from the Palestinians. And then there was a state in the Palestinian lands. We might have the same thing because today, 6 and 8 landowners, 6 and 8 million, two thirds of them are pensioners. That is to say that this process will benefit agriculture today. And I urge, especially the Reforms for the Future faction or the MP group to vote in favour of extending the moratorium.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u131	Blackwolf Alexander, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Get ready for the can.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u132	Dear friends! Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. I understand Mr. Yavorowski very well because he was the founder of the Movement, he was the driver of the soul, and he remained. He cannot say that there is no need for private property on earth. Obviously, it is needed to put the market in circulation on the ground that will bring great gains to the Ukrainian economy, doubling the actual gross national product. It's all right. But it's obviously not in this power. Here, too, I understand him well when he offers this moratorium. Because under this authority all these resources will be stolen, stolen from the Ukrainian people and used ineffectively. So obviously his bill is absolutely right, it's worth supporting with heartache, unfortunately, but it's worth supporting. And to say that, unfortunately for a few years, the Ukrainian people have lost their economic and social development, they won't be like other European peoples for a few years, because for a while now this power will last and nothing will be done accordingly. Now after that, well, really, if we had everything perfect, we could start privatization right now. Are We Prepared for the Law on the Market in the Earth? No, not ready. How long have we been preparing it? Yeah, we've been cooking a long time. What prospects do we have that he will soon be accepted? I don't understand it yet. So if the moratorium is canceled, it's just going to be such a wild privatisation and, in fact, people are going to lose, and the budget is going to lose. Because absolutely 100 percent that the prices on this land are going to be inadequate. In fact, a few or maybe one of the clans in Ukraine will take over the entire country at a drop-off price and lose both the Ukrainian citizens and the Ukrainian economy, and in general the potential for further development of Ukraine. So obviously we have to wait until this power changes to get back to the discussion of this project. So I propose to support the Yavorowski bill, although I have been and remain a proponent of private property on land, land sales, land markets. But in the terms of the Party of the Regions, all of this is impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u133	Light Oleg, non-fractional. Get ready, Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u134	Clearly, the problems of agricultural policy in Ukraine are not so much a property on earth as a prerequisite for efficient farming. Raising a problem to the form of property, I think, is unacceptable. In my opinion, the claim that private land ownership is a necessary condition for moving agriculture out of the crisis is quite ambiguous. To use it, you don't have to own it. I want to remind you of the words of English economist and philosopher John Stuart Mille, who believed that the land was not a commodity, but a means of production and should be equally accessible to all. In doing so, he claimed that the State should act as the sole landowner, while the landowners should be the tenants who receive their land on the basis of the contract on an indefinite basis or on a fixed term. Not only does it not interfere with the market economy but it does much to help, for agricultural products obtained from rented land are much cheaper in many cases, and therefore more competitive than private land products. In developed countries, the land system is geared towards State incentives and support for the very rental form of land use. Yes, in the United States, the share of the leased land in both farmers and large companies is 70 percent, in Germany about 80 percent, in China there is a fixed state ownership of land with permanent land use rights, in Israel 95 percent of the land is owned by the state and only 5 in private, which by the way is purchased when the State of Israel was created. At the same time, the efficiency of the management of kibbutz agricultural cooperatives in semi-desert conditions is twice or equal to that of the colonies and councils in the former Soviet Union. So profit must be derived, not from land ownership, but from its productive use. In this regard, the authorities should propose a plan of action for the village to solve problems for our village to feed the whole world. Instead, what does authority offer? Selling all the land and saying, tomorrow, a paradise will come to us on Ukrainian soil. By 1998, they had been dissolved, owned because of despair. Where's paradise? The village, as it was, is dying to this day. And finally. Vladimir Mikhailovich asked who was buying the land. Everyone's quiet. I'll tell you. There's this company called "Friendhood New." One of the owners of this company works among us in the hall. This company has already built a bank some 100,000 acres [100,000 ha] of land. This enterprise in the Chernigiv region, in particular, works from the head of the administration to the heads of the village councils. People are given 3,000 dollars just to make an agreement on land leases. But the lease agreement is so arranged that this man will never get back to this earth. And this is happening all over the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u135	Anatoly Matvienko, faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u136	Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” Block. Dear friends, I want to try to rephrase one famous saying, "Why are we so poor?".. I think we're poor because we scare ourselves and cry. That's how many years of independence we've had, we're afraid and we're crying and we're scared and we're crying instead of showing political will and we're moving. At the same time, we need to know that most reforms have never been done. For the most part, the population was simply speculated by those who were irresponsible about Ukraine’s future, and that is why we are poor today. I want to remind those who like to cry so much and who want to scare so much from this rostrum today, including this bill, that there will be nothing else. Think back to our discussion. We're privatizing housing, and there's going to be aliens living on the Crusades. We privatize trade, salt and bread will not be in any store. We're privatizing AZS, no gas. There will be foreign banks, a disaster. Well, guys, so is the whole world. If we want to move, we need to move through reform. The other one. It's about the market. Yes, the market, that's when the owner owns what he has. And today we have that the owner doesn't own it, he owns the passerby. Well, if we want to continue to preserve that the owner has no rights, then let's support this bill. As a result, we do not launch the land market that we have today: we lose fertility, sunflower, and rape all our soils. It's a horror, it's a crime. We have no right to continue this crime until 2015. The other one. Today, Latifundins have been cabbashed by peasants for almost 300 dollars, and for 100 dollars, the price is high for pie, by 100,000, by 200,000. Today, they are the first customers so that there is no market for the earth. These latifundists, who you're afraid of, are applauding you for introducing such a bill. Corruption continues to enrich itself. We can't take credit, we take credit for crops. The world doesn't know that. It's not farming, it's slavery. I propose a moratorium. What if it is by 2012? Let's really listen to what Litwin suggests, listen to it; speed up the adoption of laws -- and we'll move around with those precautionary problems that really need: the market of land, the limitation of quantity, how to deal with foreigners, and many others. [[like Poland: not to give them, maybe for about 10 years, the right to use this market.]] Otherwise the village will die, and nothing will happen. This bill is to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u137	Question completed. I see that the number of the Party of Regions can increase at the expense of Anatoly Sergiyovich. It's a closing statement. Yavorowski, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I will not argue with anyone, although the thoughts were polar, absolutely the opposite. I want to thank all the participants in our discussion and to say that we have not wasted this hour on the hook of parliamentary time. I even began to think that this was the beginning of these hearings that would take place in the same room. As a result, I thank all the participants for this. I'd like to make such an offer. I understand that it may not fit our Rules, Adam Ivanovich, but, let's say, I'd like to not vote right now. It's Parliament's will, he can make that decision. And vote after the hearing. I realize it's hard to do this, but I think it would be wise not to vote now. We discussed the subject. I think that Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin is one of the proponents of this bill, I think. Let us meet at this point: really vote after hearing. And then everything would have been in place. Thank you for talking to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u139	Thank you. There's no committee. We'll vote, although it's a good idea to vote after the parliamentary hearing. But after the parliamentary hearings, we will be voting with you on a ruling -- recommendations for parliamentary hearings, and there will be indicated, including those bills that will have to be adopted. I don't rule that out. As a result of the parliamentary hearings, we can write not the 15th year, but the 25th year, and so on. So, yes, yes, I mean that the consideration of this issue today does not end, because, indeed, there will be parliamentary hearings and above all let us not forget that there is a law that says that even if the deadline for the sale of land ends, it cannot be implemented until two basic laws and, above all, the law that will determine the price of land are passed. Because we have, you know, a priceless cadastra, as experts say, it takes at least three years to carry out an inventory of land. As a result of the discussion, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to Sections 14, 15 of the 10th Transitional Provisions of the General Code. I'm sorry, the Ukrainian Land Code about the land sale deadline. Registration number 7541. Please vote. [[13:17:19]] For a-117. No decision taken. Please, by the factions. The Party of Regions did not vote, “BUT – Fatherland” – 62, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – eight, Communists – 24, “Reforms for the Future” – did not vote, the People's Party – 20, non-factional – three. Thus, the bill has been rejected, but once again, I stress, fellow believers, it does not mean that we have solved this issue and we will return to it again, including the results of parliamentary hearings. We are considering a draft Law amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine (for accounting for the income of the city of Kiev for the income tax of natural persons, registration number 7560. Alexander Vilenovich, can we cut it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u140	What? That's a serious question. Adam Ivanovich, I'm against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u141	You're against it, but there's a proposal for a cut from the BIT faction. Who's in favour of considering the issue of a reduced procedure, please identify yourself. [[13:18:41]] For 203 Please, Alexander Vilenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u142	Dear friends, you voted in favour of the shortened procedure because you fear that people will hear the discussion and see your position, which is completely against the city of Kiev. I want to give a brief reminder of the bill. Always in our legislation in the Budget Code, including the one you adopted last summer, 100 percent of the citizens' income tax went to the budget of Kiev, as well as Sevastopol. I want to remind you that in areas about the same situation, the district center and the area itself share this budget. Like Kyiv, both the city and the area, there were always 100 percent in Kiev. In this budget of the past year, 2011, last year, the government submitted to us for first reading that only 50 percent of the income tax on citizens is included in the city of Kiev. When it was understood that this was contrary to the Budget Code, at the same time as the second reading of the budget, changes were made to the Budget Code, where, instead of 100 percent, as was the case in Ukraine from the beginning, 50 percent of this tax was written into the budget of Kiev. That is to say, China was robbed for 6.7 billion dollars, because the general meeting is projected by the Finance Ministry in Kiev to be 13.4 billion dollars in tax revenue. So Kiang took 6.7 billion. Part of that money was compensated for various grants and subsidies from the State Budget, and part of it was lost for the Chinese. But in any case, the city of Kyiv decided to put it on hand, that is to say that the Cabinet of Ministers would distribute the money itself. Neither Kyivrad nor Kyivrad, nor the Kyiv district administration, which is headed by Popov and the Cabinet of Ministers, will the Ministry of Finance decide whether to give money to the city of Kiev for a program or not. That's total disregard.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u143	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u144	Full disregard for the principles of local self-government is total disregard for the principle that the basis of local self-government is the financial autonomy of any territory. This applies to the city of Kiev to the full. And more than that, I want to tell you that the President made a remark on this point, expressing his surprise at why it left only 50 percent of the income tax to Kiev. Despite this, the Cabinet of Ministers, despite the so-called declared vertical of power, is trying to keep control of financial flows across the capital of Ukraine in hand and is forcing you to reject my bill. I know there's a negative decision on the budget committee that you have most of. On the other hand, I want to remind you of what scientific expertise says. After the first reading, make a change to the second reading. How?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, from the Baranov profile committee, please. There's no Baranov. Who is ready to report from the Budget Committee? None. Conclusion of the Committee on Budgets: To reject the bill. Please sign up for a discussion. Please, Odarchenko, "BUT is the Fatherland." Get Carpuku ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, this is a very important question for Kiev. I want to remind Victor Yanukovic's pre-election program, which said that he would provide all teachers and doctors with public services and thus raise their salaries. What is happening today in Kiev this year? The budget of Kiev did not provide social support for budget workers. Now, honourable members of the Party of Regions, you will go to any kind of kindergarten or school and you will clearly understand that today, after your leadership is the first time in the history of Ukraine, people have received a substantial reduction in wages. Today, there is a salary of between 900 and one and a half thousand dollars. And it's very strange for me to see how in the City Council, the faction of the Party of Regions is supporting this increase in funding for teachers, and here in the session room is going to be somewhat the opposite. Today, in order to emphasize your general position, it is necessary to vote in favour of the law of the Blacksmith, to amend the budget code for the return of these expulsions that were made in Kiev. It will be a serious testimony that the authorities care for the people who are raising our children in the hospital today and thus show their respect for them. Dear colleagues! I'm stressing at the City Council, members of all factions, members of all factions have come forward with strong criticism against this removal, including your deputies asking questions about whether this expulsion should be returned. Show such respect to members of local councils, regardless of what they do. This is a serious sign, the position of the faction in the city council that local self-government is needed, you destroyed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u147	Please, Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u148	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u149	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr, for your word. I want to support Mr. Blackwolf's bill because it is more than anything in the interests of the Kyiv community. For many years there has been a team of so - called reformers in Kiev, which now cannot be counted against that Kyiv land, and about a thousand and a half areas illegally embezzled or more, which are lost to the city budget and how it is covered. Until now, although it's no longer the reformers' team in power in Kiev, the people who are on one team, the head of the KMDA and the government should be the correspondent couple, and in fact, 50 percent of the income in Kiev is being taken away. Who is suffering? Those who receive wages, social benefits, and other forms of financial benefits from the city of Kiev suffer. And if you figure out that the total amount of removals from the city budget of Kiev is about 8.5 billion dollars, and if Kiev succeeds and collects more, then the coefficient works and deletes more than 8.5 billion dollars. So the question is, what is this robbery that Kyiv is taking from the government, and why is no one counting on the city community? I think it is necessary for Parliament here to adopt a consolidated decision. Because this money that is purchased by the Chinese, they create this additional product, they have to be shared in the interests of the city of Kiev by the Chinese city community. That's why I understand that now the ruling majority doesn't have a complete discussion procedure, because it's an awkward question, because the government and the city administration can't find a common language, and the government is essentially robbing the city of Kiev. So the obvious thing is that there can't be a full procedure, but just for a short period of time, it's kind of squirm that no one notices that moment. This is no way to vote in the interests of the city of Kiev and Kyiv, the proposal and the ruling majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u150	I think Vjacheslav Anatoliyovich, what was a reduced procedure, was more heard because if they spoke more, they would hear less. And so clearly and clearly heard you, don't worry. One minute from the faction, please, Yuri Baldwin. All those who didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich, I was not going to speak, but this crying is not Jaroslavna, which I have just heard in two speeches, it has made me go to the rostrum. I was an MP, a member of the budget committee in the second assembly, and in my eyes the Kiev City Budget began to be filled with funds. In the 1994 budget, Kiev, like most other major regional centres, was subsidized. The city of Kiev, like most major regional centres, was subsidized in the 1995 budget. And the donors were exclusively the cities of the South and East: Poltava, Harkov, Dnepropetrovsk, Lugansk, Donetsk, Zaporozhye, Odessa, Nikolayev and Herson. But then the natural processes of sovereignty began in our country. Kiev has become more and more real every year.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u152	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. I repeat: two minutes, when the faction is recorded, when the faction is not registered, one minute. That's why I'm not signing up for you. Voline, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u153	Eugeny Wolynec, the town of Schachtersk, the faction of Communists. Of course, the obvious thing is, Kiev is the capital, it's where all the cash flows are going anyway. But please tell me, how does Kiev differ from the same Donetsk, which fills the budget in most of its, the budget of Ukraine? Or the same Poltava or the same Chernigov? Why do we have to make some preferences for Kiev and forget about other regional cities that are also in need, I think, in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u154	Yes, dear colleagues, the discussion is over. But we still have the opportunity to listen to the profile committee. Please, Valery Alexiyovich Baranov, head of the committee for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u155	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! The Committee considered this issue at its meeting yesterday, and considering that the State budget for this year has been approved with regard to the provisions of the current budget code, the adoption of the bill will lead to a balance in the current budget period of the State budget. The budget of the city of Kiev itself and the local budgets that receive the grant of compensation from the state budget. According to the distribution of income from natural persons among the budgets proposed in the Budget Code, the need for income and expenditure for the budget is as high as possible, optimizing the current flows between local and state budgets. I would like to add, first of all, that the NCRE and the Kiev City Administration need to carry out public service tariffs to their real value. Then there will be no need to compensate populism in the past for billions at the expense of all the cities and all the inhabitants of our nation. So you can't have water, a cube of water in my Berdianski - 10 bracelets, in Zaporozhye - 5 grams - 70 cubes, and in Kiev - 60 bracelets. At the expense of the entire nation, one capital cannot exist. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code, number 7560, to be rejected. [[on the accrual of the city of Kiev's income tax on the income of natural persons]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u156	One minute, please, Blackwill. His name was mentioned, for replication.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u157	No, I didn't, and it's not nice to say that. I am surprised when the ruling coalition tries to destroy its capital and speaks of it. It's a unique case in history at all. It's for the French government to say this about Paris or England about London. Dear friends, once again I want to tell you that this is the money that is being collected in Kiev and belongs to the city of Kiev. Because Kiev doesn't have the Kyiv region, it doesn't go in there. This is what remains of the city of Kiev. It should not go to the state budget, for in no area does this money go to the state budget. That's 8 and a half billion dollars out of Kiev after he pays all taxes like any other city in Ukraine. It is not that Kiev is at the expense of others. Kyiv does not get anything at the expense of others. Instead, it puts 8 billion dollars into the state budget for redistribution. But Kiev has a lot of its own problems, and we're just paralyzing the capital. And by paralyzing the capital, we will destroy the state. I'm afraid these are the plans of the real ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u158	Project discussion completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. [[on the accounting of the revenue of the city of Kiev's income tax on the income of natural persons]] [[Registration number 7560]] The committee is to reject. The main science-expert management is to be sent to pre-work. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:34:01]] For-65 The bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u159	The factions, please. The party of the regions did not vote, "BUT – "Fatherhood" – 44; "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 18 and non-factional - 3. The rest of the factions and the group did not vote. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on medical means of transport for rural areas]] [[Registration number 8027]] Can't we do it in a reduced procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u160	Okay. Please report Bolura Antonin Volodymyrna. You don't want to. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u161	Thank you. My bill is that we're proposing to increase the call for $700 million to buy ambulances at the expense of what we need, there are these calculations, there's a general need for about 8,000 cars. We're offering 700 million dollars on the basis of reducing the capital costs distributed by the Cabinet of Ministers by 405 million, and the acquisition of aircraft by 295 million. I'm the author of this bill, but it's at the hands of our faction and this is our position. Why is this question so urgent? Because the authorities have begun reform, this time in the medical field. And the reform is that there's a sharp reduction in the medical facilities and the health facilities of those in the village: that's the FAPs, that's the infirmary. We know that mortality in Ukraine is so high anyway. We take first place. Mortality in the village is bigger than fate in the city. We know how much help rural people need, which is the distance from the village to the village, from the facility to the facility. And today, when drugs are expensive, when it costs a trip because it's fueled and it's still expensive, medical services are just getting more and more complicated, more and more inaccessible. An example of buying cars that are currently criminalized has shown how much services are needed, how many people have received the help they need, how many lives have been saved. I'd like to submit a statistic that, on the threshold or on the way to waiting for medical attention, 70 percent of the people who need it die without waiting. And another number. Statistics show that the number of ambulance calls is about 13 million. So 3 million of them don't really need to go to a medical facility. Medical care is provided directly on site. This issue was discussed yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Budgets. Of course, both the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance and the Council of Experts have refused us. They refused to point out that it might be purchased, perhaps at the expense of local budgets. But we know how much money is not enough. No matter how much local budgets are needed, these costs are at stake. We don't question the origin of this technique. We agree with any technique, because it's important not only to hospitalize someone who needs medical attention, but also to bring them to those who need help. We ask the dominant faction to support our very proposal, our faction's proposal to understand that what is directed at people, what is aimed at oppressing people, what is destroying people, what is called reform. Reforms are necessary. We also understand that in Ukraine the largest number of medical facilities is 100,000, the largest number of beds in Ukraine. But mortality is high. We don't have a higher birth rate. So let's agree today, and we're still going to vote in favour of allocating additional funds for the purchase of extremely needed cars. Thank you for your attention, and please support the offer of our political power. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u162	Yes, please. Any questions? Antonina Volodymyrically, stay, sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u163	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u164	Yes, please, Bondarenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u165	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. Mrs. Antonina, we were with you yesterday at that interesting meeting of the Committee of Budgets, where there may have been more people than ever. But many of those present pointed out that it would be possible to vote if it were a kind of native technique and so on. Don't you think it's a simple, ordinary refusal of that political force that is cutting down areas in Ukraine today, destroying the field and obstetric points, leaving people completely without any medical care, and it's the same way that the Russian non-black country is going to clean up this land for the latifunds, to sow raps, sow technical crops there? I got this impression, don't you think it's a targeted policy to destroy a Ukrainian village when there's no way to give medical aid to peasants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u166	I share your opinion, and I think, and I'm sure, and we see it's not just the destruction of the village, but it's all the difficulties that exist in Ukraine as a result of this, you know, untalented, unprofessional government, all of these problems are being translated into people's minds. And when people's lives are cut short, when they're completely taken into account, what amounts they can't pay, whether they're gone or not, or a lot or not, and they don't consider people's lives at all, it's a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u167	Pavlovsky Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u168	Mrs. Antonino, you have rightly pointed out that somehow the authorities under reform understand the solid economy of money, primarily on ordinary citizens. And this health reform consists of closing down rural hospitals, rural hospitals, and field offices, removing those machines that were still in Timoshenko’s government, a thousand agricultural ambulances that had just taken doctors to the sick. And do you think it's a method of budgeting on people? Why doesn't the government do anything to get that money back from offshores that would have been enough to solve all these problems? And why are they refusing to save on bureaucrats, on red tape, on their maintenance, and on this budget, about 30 percent of the money just went up? Let the camera be cut off, but the money is given to rural medicine. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u169	Mr. Andrey, I'm going to continue because my opinion is the same as yours, and I'm going to continue that there's a possibility not only of finding money somewhere, but the money that is already being made, which is being distributed by the budget, is an increase. And the expansion of the medical facilities directly is being observed for the facilities that serve the Supreme Council, the honorary colleagues, the employees of the President's Administration, the Kabmin. There's a huge increase in funding. Power structures such as the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the BSS have also been increased, including in the area of health. By the way, yesterday at a meeting of the budget committee after people, you know, were afraid or raised or raised because the heart and conscience, I think, are everyone, so maybe because they are ashamed or ashamed, so they voted in any way for the increase in medical expenses for the IMF by 173 million. Well, here's the answer. Because there's people and there's others.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u170	Mikhail Kosov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u171	Mikhailo Kosov, BUT, Reform and Order Party. Antonino Volodymyr! You have the right sources of funding, and in a normal society, that would not raise any doubt. No matter how the vote ends, at this point I would think that you would be able to speak to the media and raise this problem. Now the second one. You said you're not asking in your draft law the question of the brand of a machine that is to be purchased by or by a medical rural institution. I think we should think about it here, and maybe predict that the stationary UAZAs that are equipped with our rural outpatients don't always justify themselves, and that's why they might be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u172	Mr. Michael, you know, I really don't make that demand or condition, because, well, that's not our function. I mean, whatever the car is. Our production is wonderful, because production is also necessary. And even the UAZI that you're talking about, let them be, because it's the research that shows that 8,000 machines don't even exist at all, they're not there at all, any of them. You're not going far on a bike. And that's why. And as for the media: if that were the case, I would say, honestly, all the time, ask, report. But those on whom extra funding depends, they do not hear. The media will listen, but it is important for the authorities to hear. Because if it's hard, if you pull the belts, what we're supposed to do, not us, and everyone's being summoned, let's do it from everyone. And let's start with an example. Let's do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u173	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u174	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill, which has just been presented, is aimed at solving the issues of equipping rural health institutions and purchasing ambulances for them. Today, there is no denying that health care for rural people, villages, and even radical changes are needed. However, given that the experience of buying ambulances for rural areas last year has led to a mixed response, this issue should not be solved at a wave of combat. Therefore, it is necessary to study thoroughly all budgetary possibilities for the purchase of ambulances and other equipment for the village and to make an informed decision, at least on the basis of half the year when possible. Taking into account the above, the Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting yesterday reviewed the draft Law and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the results of the first reading rejecting the draft Law on Amendments under number 8027, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u175	Questions, please write down. Valerius Borisovich. Alexiyovich, come back. Please sign up for the question. Yes, please, Calchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u176	Valery Alexandrovich, you just said that this question could be considered on the basis of the first half of the year. So where is the logic of the committee that is now proposing to reject, maybe in the first reading, and then in the second half of the year, make the decision as you suggest. Because, well, in your report and in that phrase, you can think about it, I don't think it makes any sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u177	Since the State budget is likely to be reviewed for six months, and you know that when the budget is adopted, some social issues, such as savings and payments to children of war, have been written: a review of the implementation of the mid-term, will probably be possible if there is an increase in the additional part of the budget. Since there is no such excess today and could not be, the adoption of this law from this day forward will lead to a complete imbalance in the State budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u178	Moroko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u179	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u180	Gordien Sergey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u181	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Oleg Alexiovich. The question is absolutely relevant, extremely painful for Ukraine, really, rural medicine, like all medicine is in a catastrophic state, especially the question of medical equipment. People make smart people, people understand, but they do it on a hardware that's 74 years out there and other years. Including the provision of primary health care is the purchase of ambulances for ambulances. I think that's exactly what we need, both the budget committee, and everyone else, to look at the rents completely differently, and by increasing the rent payments, to solve this urgent problem. What's your point of view?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u182	Now the Committee on Budget Affairs is working on a lot of proposals for our government to fill in the revenue and to cut spending from the State Budget, and we have understanding and support from the central government. I want to tell you that this is the goal of purchasing equipment and cars -- 491 million dollars in this budget. So to say that nothing has been set aside is going to be wrong. But you are right to say that this article needs to be reviewed, and this article should be expanded if that is the only way in which it can be done in the first half of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u183	Thank you, sit down, please. Please sign up. Have a seat, Valery Alexiyovich. Please sign up for the factions. Yes, MPs. Yes, Your Honor, let's continue the discussion of this matter for 25 minutes. Please, Karmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Get ready, Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u184	Yuri Carmazin. Respectable national MPs certainly have a project that is now being implemented that is extremely important to the country. And by decision of the faction, we have to vote on it as a basis. I'd like to say that we're doing so well in the state. I hear such encouraging speeches all the time by Mikola Janovitch Azarov, right, every time I think: maybe he'll stand up and say, this is the last time I'm speaking as the head of the government, and then I'm going to go to those countries that I know well and where I can better fit in. Why am I waiting for this? Because when I hear Azarov, I feel as if I have come to another country, that I live in another country than he does. This is certainly another country. Of course, in the country where schools are being destroyed today, they are being destroyed, optimized, and the hospital is being optimized. At a time when the Constitution clearly states that there is no reduction in the number of hospitals. He can't use any. Article 49 of the Constitution. And they have, you see, optimization. And they're all sitting silent. Well, I now wish President Yanukovich health. He has time to hear us with you now. And I think he's going to hear and evaluate Azarov's optimist just to get the government out of him. But it is extremely right that 295 million dollars are planned to be taken from the budget program for the acquisition of aircraft. [[code 3108050]] Is it that without a plane or a helicopter, we can't live anymore? We could have lived before that. And it's very appropriate to take this initiative to transplant into high-plant damage instead of Mercedes. But as long as it's not. Because of this, I think the government promised us that once the time is up, when we live with the previous budget, we will live better. In view of what the prime minister has said and has already become better, I think that the 405 million government spending that the government has given to the government, they can go there. By the way, Mrs. Antonini Boluri, I want to thank you and say that our expenses for the transport services of the deputies have virtually all given up on him, so let's put them in there. It's also an option, I'll give you a hint.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u185	Please, Sergey Gordienko, prepare Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u186	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the authors of the bill and all those who have asked questions are exclusive, I say in paws, the residents of the rural area of Ukraine who are speaking, they are tearing up the flesh right here on their chests and telling how difficult rural medicine is. And to the authors of the bill and to those who ask questions, and I'm asking all of us one question, and whose authorities, for 20 years, have we brought into this state of rural medicine, who, by handing over the stick to each other, has led this same rural medicine to such a disgraceful state? And who should we weep for what we have proved? It is the speakers who initiate the consideration of these bills that they should kneel down and pray day and night, apologizing to the villagers and to rural medicine for what they have proved. Yes, rural medicine needs nine thousand cars today, it's needed today, and it was needed yesterday, and you should probably thank yourself for buying a thousand of these cars, but you didn't have to write Julia Timoshenko on that car because she wasn't personally bought by Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, but she bought those cars, the Ukrainian state, and there's no need to do any writing. With regard to this bill, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will undoubtedly support the bill. But once again, I'm drawing your attention to what the past government has done, and it's impossible to cut costs, and today it's reproaching the current government, at least say we did it, and we don't recommend it. And today rural medicine, just like yesterday, is closing down rural health institutions, education and both cultural institutions, and it's both the past government and the present government that explains that there is no money to support it and that it needs to be optimized. In conclusion, I say that the faction of the Company of Ukraine will vote in favour of a bill in which these cars are to be passed and purchased, but, sources, they are in your possession. Let's look at the monopoly on vodka, on tobacco, on naphtha, on everything that fills the budget, and by bringing it back to the state, we can execute those programs. I remind you that even the German authorities who came to us did not close the facilities that you had closed, and now this policy continues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I ask the great expert on the Rules and the first deputy head of the Regulatory Committee, Sergey Volodymyrovich Sasa, to ask his colleagues not to violate the Rules by shouting, shouting and so forth, and so forth. Shevchuk Sergey, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland" to prepare for Baldwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u188	Dear Adam Ivanovich, you know, being in opposition, criticizing power is always simple, easy, but being in power as a previous speaker, and criticizing this authority is the height of parliamentary art, it has never been. Have a conscience, at least, I know some ideological belief, or get out of that power, or say that your representative was in vain a minister of health, or don't be Arlekin, a comedian in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But there's something else I want to say about this bill. So he was offered by the opposition. Surprisingly, though, the most interested in his acceptance is the present - day majority of the parliamentary and present - day government. Why? Not because the government of Azarov was unable to meet the hope of the previous government that he had purchased for peasants, for rural medicine, a thousand cars. During this year, they failed to buy at least a dozen in their regions of Donetsk, Lugansk, or others. There was no decent answer, we could use this bill to support it and let the villagers really get the right medical help. But what's important, Mr. President, is that there's a medical reform in the hands of the President's Administration, and maybe not all of you have met her, and I want to tell you what is the point of this reform? The point is extremely simple, they're eliminated as a class, as you don't need a central district hospital in every region of Ukraine -- in every area! Where you still travel today and meet with doctors or patients, hospital districts are formed instead. There will be a multi-profession hospital in the district subdistrict centres, in the other 5-6 areas around there will be so-called hospitals for treating chronic patients, or hospices. Who doesn't know what hospice is? Hospice is if you say it's a mortuary vestibule, that is, people will not be treated there, but they will die with dignity. This is called hospice. This is what the current government is planning for the Office of the President's Administration. But in these situations, if you have such grand plans and you plan that the hospital district should be a radius of 100 kilometers, you should be the first to thank Mrs. Boluri for offering to buy sanitation. Because the plan of President Yanukovic’s administration is 100 kilometers away, and sanitation is expected to take 20 minutes. It's written in documents, read them. Besides the helicopter, I don't know how to handle it. So, the honourable majority, support this bill, I'm moving away from politics, it's necessary for the people -- for our people and for your constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u189	Yuri Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready for Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, the distinguished Presidency! Once again, we hear all the same crying, really, no one remembers that just recently, when your Government purchased ambulances, they were, for some reason, purchased not in the kit, not in the quality required to perform their functions and used to date, mainly as just the travel machines of local health officials, which is also not bad, but not in the profile. Now you start telling stories about what you need to find a billion more bracelets to make a new purchase. I would like to remind you that if a criminal case has been instituted last time, because, well, you're not personally, of course, but your people have gotten serious discounts by raising the purchase price, now you're still not going to be involved in this case. That's why I'm asking you to support us. And we have a completely different idea. After this shameful history of your purchases made by Mrs. Timoshenko, there are now two domestic producers who are ready to start producing their own quick assistance on the import routes. And the third manufacturer is registered. And we will do our utmost to purchase, for budgetary purposes, quick aid to rural areas that will be provided by a domestic producer to not only spend money but also raise money in the form of taxes. And once again, we appeal to you not to uphold your populist law, but to uphold the current power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u191	The prokupchuk Yuri, the BUT faction. Get ready for the can.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u192	Yuri Prokopchuk, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko – "The Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Respectable Ukrainians, respected citizens, and especially those who today hear and see us. Those who wait today for them to be expelled from their medical facilities. There are cynical things here when, including colleagues I respect, officials claim that the government of Yulia Timoshenko, who in just last year, a depressed year, has provided every railing company with a minimum of ODS equipment, as a minimum of artificial breathing equipment, at least in all the villages in the infirmary, these cars have appeared that have saved thousands of lives. It's the tip of cynicism. While we're talking about sanitation, and we're in this bill, I think where to look for funds, let this presidential squadron of helicopters not buy or sell or refurnish, and, in extreme cases, help our beloved miners, who need to be delivered there. That's not happening today. What is the rehabilitation today? More precisely, it was before the cars first appeared in the villages. It was when the doctor was a district doctor, as in his native area of Engagement, sat on a horse and drove to a sick person. He couldn't even transport it back or anything else. That's what happened before. And when a colleague talks about crying today, let's not cry, let's do something. And this bill is one of the solutions to the problem. It really is. Let's support him. And it doesn't matter what labels are on board. Whether from Yanukovich or from Azarov, Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko spoke of this. And it doesn't matter to people who are quick to come after them and what kind of reanimation will help them. That is why this bill needs to be supported. Instead of looking for a reason, they think about how to save people today. And also, about those reforms, if reform destroys the infirmary, the FAP, the club, the library, which means it destroys the village, because it's infrastructure, that's what it is, then it removes the moratorium on land, it builds reservations where we're going between the barbed wire, and especially the villagers, it's reforms. So let's not think about these reforms, but let's think about how in those areas where there's the greatest birth today, and that's Polissa doing exactly what the Timoshenko government has done, do at least half of that, and we thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u193	Oleg Lazko, non-factional. Get ready for the Horn.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u194	I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't know one very simple truth that peasants are now deprived of the constitutional right to receive medical care. If the city’s inhabitants can still reach their hospital, few will reach the center from the village. Because we know that the vast majority of people who live in the village today are older people. Because young people who could have escaped from the village long ago. People of old age, our grandparents, the women who worked all their lives, they won't go to the area, because, first of all, there's nothing to go on, second of all, there's nothing to go to, and health is not, because they've already given up their health for you and me sitting here in the hall, and I'm sorry, they've been cynical about how we love people, and they haven't hit the sticks to really help these people. Today, there are no FAPs in the villages, and today many villages do not have drugstores. From the headache, from some basic pain, farmers cannot buy drugs because of the conditions created and cannot reach the center to get help. And so, unfortunately, there's a terrible statistic that 70 percent of people who didn't get medical treatment in time die. Here's our job with you, if we want to do something to people, to fix this situation, not to make promises someday, something will happen. They have already done so: In the 2011 budget, 300 million dollars for the treatment of authorities. The bill, which proposes to buy a car for rural medicine, proposes 700 million. So let's at least take 200 million out of power and give it to the villagers. At least half the areas are covered by this transport. But no, for everyone wants to walk and treat himself kindly so that they can look wherever they can. And let those peasants sit: for whatever they are, they have lived their lives, which they are walking about in. Let's, let's have, let's have, let's have, let's have, let's have, let's share with people. Stop scratching yourself. That is why we must vote in favour of this law. Let us set aside, according to our colleagues, domestic production should be the vehicle itself. So let's assume that before the second reading, let's make this proposal. Let our people work, make cars. And let our sick get on this car to the hospital. It's neither self nor people. Let us change the situation, let us lift up, help the village, including providing them with the necessary medical care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u195	The high priest renders the word to Paul. Prepare Bondarenko Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u196	Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." I want to point out that we are witnessing another kind of blasphemy of power when loved ones, the same Phoefania, increase funding by 93 million dollars, and for all the other medicine for the common people, by twice as many. And they tell us there's no money, sorry, in the budget. You got it on you? Do you have a problem with that? And I'd like to point out that Mrs. Antonin Boloura pointed out the real sources of where to take these funds, gave a sound financial and economic justification. So why is the budget committee in this same session voting for militias to increase their health by 173 million -- money was found; and for rural medicine to support people in rural areas where there is no medicine at all now -- there is no money. Why? To buy the money from the budget? And that's $50,000, by the way, is equivalent to the cost of the four cars that Yula Timoshenko bought for the rural FAPs and the rural infirmary. And in general, if anyone knows the arithmetic, on one helicopter, the helicopter for Yanukovich was spent on the budget of 17 million euros, and on a thousand cars purchased by Yulia Timoshenko from the government of Yulia Timoshenko for rural people, they spent 12.5 million euros. So you see, one helicopter for the President is worth more than a thousand cars for ordinary people. Can Yanukovich put a sticker on this helicopter on "Janukovich's own budget-loved programme"? A conscience must have and keep its own promises. So once again, I insist, if there is a gram of conscience in the members of the Party of Regions, support this bill, because this year you have not given a penny to buy any equipment or cars for rural medicine. So vote, even if you are forbidden party discipline, your conscience is more important, you need to support it. I think that's what every honest national MP should do. And it's going to be a test of conscience in the people's defenses. And whoever doesn't has a mandate, he goes away and walks off to his offshore fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u197	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u198	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. If we thought about the situation in Ukraine today and looked at it in terms of common sense, everyone would realize that today's Ukrainian authorities are not working for this country, they're working for the collapse of this country. It does everything in order not to let God give us into a European structure; so that God does not let anyone see us as a normal country. They want to turn our country into a part of the neighborhood and they do everything in education, and in science, they do it today, including in the agrarian sector, in destroying the village as a whole. So, when there's a porter here today who's offering to wait for a native car, where he is, tell me. If it is, let's buy it, let's buy any one, because people's lives are short, and it has certain terms. And as long as you release a domestic vehicle, as you stated yesterday at the Harkow missile complex, only missiles will be able to fly in space to those waiting for help today. I think it's another cynicism that our neighbors in the hall are showing today, telling us about the great sins that something was written wrong. It was written by the government of Ukraine, which headed Julia Timoshenko at the time. Hang your favorite Stalin on the car, but buy a car. Here he is to you, Stalin, who destroyed Ukraine, whose reforms killed 14 million Ukrainians, so get out of the coalition of what you are sitting there. Why do you criticize authority and sit in that coalition? Every time you perform, well, it's just cynicism that makes your head turn. So, dear friends, that's all that's being done here today is, really, a test of attitude, whether we want to preserve this state, whether we want those people who chose us to be born most of you, and who are living in the country today, or who are already dead, to be somehow rewarded by that state today. Write what you want on your cars. Stick any leader of yours. Write it down as a gift from Yanukovich, but buy these cars for the peasants because you're so upset that Julia Timoshenko was written there. It's all right. Today, thousands of thanks are coming for those cars. And the fact that someone can't put a stretcher in there, yeah, sorry, where are you putting them today? You're putting on the submersibles, on the bikes of the local feldshers, you're destroying the entire infrastructure of the village today, and you want to go. If a grandmother is brought to the FAP on her grandson's sleigh today, there will be no FAP on the sleigh, there will be no car at all. So stop here, really, doing your word-for-word work, stop your cynical politics here. Let us help those who are waiting for our help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, I've moved on to the conclusion of this discussion, we have one minute left. Please report, please. Do you have an opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u200	I am very happy to feel the carelessness of the entire room. And I'm pretty sure it is. Even those who lower their heads are delighted. I want to thank you for all the meaningful additions that give you an understanding of the situation and the problem. I want to turn to those who decide the fate of these cars today, so that you can vote. Just think about those people, just go for a drive or eat or feel their problems. Let's vote. As for the sources, yes, well, they can be invented. And even if it doesn't change anything, let's just distribute the revenue, but let's buy it. I'm asking you very much: let's provide for these people today who need this kind of help by car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-02-m0.u201	Question completed. Let's be clear. I'm reminded the committee rejected the bill. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration: made some remarks to the bill. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on medical means of transport for rural areas]] [[Registration number 8027]] Vote. [[14:18:55]] For 122 The factions. But there will be little joy for you. The Party of Regions – 0, "BUT – Fatherland", which has more than 100 national MPs, - only 64 voted; "People's Ukraine" – 10, communists – 24, "Reforms for the Future" – 1, "The People's Party – 19, "Afterfaction" – 4. The bill was rejected. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. In the afternoon we work in factions and committees. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
