ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:51]] Cards were registered in the 379 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National Deputies, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, today the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Korzheva Anatolia Leonidovich and Ukolova Viktor Alexanderovich. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on 6 October 2011. Twenty-five issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, five laws and 72 decrees were passed, four bills were passed on the basis, four bills and one draft decree were rejected. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals, two laws were passed in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, one law aimed at furthering the committee, one law being rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 37 of the Ukrainian Law "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" are held on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. "hour of questions to the Government". Representatives of the MPs made a proposal during the "hour of questions to the government" to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the protection of the rights of socially vulnerable groups. All the MPs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Reform Group for the Future, based on part six of article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, informed the Cabinet of Ministers in advance, i.e. in writing, of the questions to be asked during the "hour of questions to the Government". Honourable National MPs, answering questions from Ukrainian national deputies today will be Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine Sergey Leonidovich Tihypko. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is in the lead with the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Except for the ministers: Zločevski, who is on a mission; Grishchenka, who is on a mission; Kulinaka, who is on a mission; Anishchenka, who is on a mission; Twin, who is on a mission; and Lavrinović, who is also on a mission. Dear People's Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees such an order to conduct an hour of questions to the Government. When asked questions to members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from the MPs, the factions answered them, within 30 minutes, the questions to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers, 30 minutes, one minute, to the formulation of a question and within two minutes, the answers to questions. I invite you to the rostrum of Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine Sergio Leonidovich Tihypak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u2	Good afternoon, Mr. Head! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Ladies and gentlemen! We got the right questions, and now I'm starting to answer them. The first question came from the faction "The Motherland of Motherhood" of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. "Two years ago, Parliament was paralyzed for a few months because of blocking representatives of today's authorities, who demanded that in the midst of the global crisis double the social standards: pensions, scholarships, salaries to the budgeters. As a result, they won the election. And today, in fact, even those acquisitions that were distant in previous years are being destroyed. Is that how you personally do the President of Ukraine's program?" Dear National Deputies! During the period of activity of today’s government, there have been no reductions in social standards, no nor will there be. Today’s government has determined that raising social standards frozen in the previous two years is the main task of the government. You remember that when today’s government began to exercise authority in March 2010. We have prepared the State Budget 2010 project, according to which the latter number, that is, since 1 January, the social policy system for the gradual rise in social standards has been established, and social standards are also gradually rising in 2011. An increase in social standards is also provided by the State Budget Project 2012. Please note that the dynamics of the gradual increases in subsistence minimum are characterized by the following: the subsistence minimum for working persons increased by 19.9 per cent during 2008-2009. In 2010 - 2012, it increased by 47.6 percent. The minimum of living for disabled persons has increased by 100 dollars in 2008-2009, 24 percent in 2010-2011, by 47.6 percent. The minimum of living for children up to six years in 2008-2009 has increased by 21 percent, increasing by 47.6 percent in 2010-2012. For children from six to 18 years in 2008-2009, it increased by 18.2 percent, and in 2010-2012 it increased by 47.6 percent. So to say that some social benefits are expected to be reduced is not appropriate. You can also see this in the 2012 budget project that you already have. The second question is from the faction of the Party of Regions. "One of the most important tasks is the timely payment of wages. How does today's government eliminate debt from the earnings that was inherited from the previous government?" Dear National Deputies! Indeed, the former government has embarked, today’s government has begun to exercise its powers of debt, which has grown rapidly enough and much. In January 2008, by March 2010, a period in which the previous government was active, the debt from wages had only a steady upward trend. Yes, as of January 1, 2008, this debt amounted to 668 million dollars. From 1 January 2008 to 1 March 2010, debt increased to 1 billion 737 million. So the previous government increased it 2.6 times. What happened after that? The previous government thus increased, over a year and a half, we were able to reduce this debt that was inherited from the previous government by 677,8 million dollars, or 40 percent. There's one big problem that doesn't allow this problem to be solved more radically, even more significantly, is that the problem with the bankers is that the debt on the wages of about half of them is made up of these companies. To solve this problem, we have introduced to the Supreme Council the Bankruptcy Act, which provides for tighter terms, clearer terms and greater responsibility for all participants in the bankruptcy process. If we succeed in law, it will allow us to significantly reduce the debt of wages in general throughout the country. Next question. The MP's faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense": "How does the Constitution fit in with the first reading of the government bill, 9127, on the State's guarantees of execution of court decisions?" Dear National Deputies! I can't comment as a representative of the executive branch, as far as this bill is constitutional or not. If there is such a need and the appeal of the national deputies is made, the Constitutional Court will be able to comment. But, relatively speaking, it should be noted that during all the years of independence, unfortunately, legislative acts were adopted that had no proper economic justification. And if you look at the figure that's made up of all of these benefits that we should have provided, this figure today is 160 billion dollars, 160 dollars. The 2011 budget is 377 billion, 160 just isn't enough. Here, if necessary, I can explain how the corresponding costs are not funded by the articles. By the way, I can tell you that we've given this information to public organizations, and these numbers are confirmation. And how did the authorities deal with these questions all the time? This was consistently decided simply by the Budget Act or by the decision that all these benefits, all these subsidies, are paid within the budget. For example, in the same neighborhoods, this has been accepted since 1995. But in order to solve this problem, an appropriate bill was put in place to do what is done in a de facto way and to do it in a de jure way. What's the deal now? After consulting representatives of the public organizations, we agreed that the second part of the bill would not be supported by the government and would ask the Supreme Council not to consider it. But what I'm saying is that in no way has anyone ever said that social standards through this law should be reduced. If you look at the 2012 draft budget, you'll see that all of the social standards are practically expected to increase. And I would like to point out that this bill on the budget was introduced to you before the public organizations came to the Supreme Council. "As since 2009, this is a question of the People's Party faction, and how has the living minimum changed from 2009 to 2011? How did the government plan to change the subsistence minimum in 2012?" Ladies and gentlemen, the previous government did not increase the subsistence minimum from November 2008 to November 2009. The previous government also did not raise the subsistence minimum from December 2009 to March 2010. Once, almost a year and a half of his work, social standards and livelihoods were raised. The consumer price index in 2008 was 122 percent and in 2009 it was 112.3 percent. Thus, the size of the subsistence minimum was reduced by the previous government in 2008. This has certainly affected people's incomes, and we know that in 2009 the real population's income declined by 10 percent. What happened in 2010-2011? A step-by-step increase in the living minimum has been ensured, taking into account the projected consumer price index for the year in question. Yes, the living minimum for working persons, set at December 2011, exceeds the corresponding amount in December 2009 by 35 percent. This trend is projected to continue for 2012, as foreseen in the 2012 budget. Thus, the overall cost of living for the main social and demographic groups in 2010-2012 will be: for children under 6 years of age - 52.1 per cent, for children between 6 and 18 years of age - 54.3 per cent, for workers - 52.4 per cent, for people who have lost their jobs - 54.3 per cent. In line with the increase in the subsistence minimum, there is also an increase in the size of the basic state social security guarantees that are determined on the basis of it. It's also very important that in 2008-2009, there was a constant increase in the gap between the subsistence minimum and the first tariff level, which created enough problems for the poor at the top. We managed to narrow this gap in 2010, and in 2011 and 2012, we also set the same trend. The Communist Party MP asks the following question. "In the near future, the second reading will consider a questionable draft of the State Guarantees Act concerning the enforcement of court decisions. This bill actually deprives people of the benefits by empowering the government to determine the order and the conditions for granting them. What are the projected financial parameters for social benefits and assistance, such as for Chernobyl, war veterans? What percentage of the benefits can be provided by the state to these categories of housing services?" Once again, I would like to say, the bill did not foresee any reduction in social benefits. Whenever I want to stress this, the bill envisaged a mechanism when the budget is approved in the Supreme Council and after an approved budget article, the Cabinet of Ministers then makes the appropriate decisions. That is practically how practice works today and to the last of its time. But the budget for benefits and guarantees and compensations are characterized by the following dynamics, the following figures. 2010 is 5.9 billion dollars, including an allowance of 4.1 billion dollars, a grant of 1.8 billion dollars. 2011 The figure from 5.9 goes up to 7 billion dollars, including the benefits of -4.9 per grant - 2.1 billion. In 2012, it's 7.4 billion, including the $5.2 benefits, for the grant, it's 2.2 billion. This suggests that we are constantly increasing the expenditure articles year after year and providing adequate social protection for citizens. As for the benefits for the warlords and for the Chernobylites that apply to residential services, they have different categories, different benefits. They're all being implemented today, and we have confidence that they will be fully implemented both in 2011 and in 2012. The MP group of the Reforms for the Future. "As evidenced by the experience of neighbouring states, social reform is always a painful process because it concerns the interests of all social groups, especially those of socially vulnerable groups. Did the government foresee in the context of social reform a programme of social support and protection for persons with disabilities, pensioners, veterans and other socially vulnerable categories of the population?" Yes, I might say that from the beginning of the year we consulted five categories, in our view, of socially vulnerable citizens themselves, and were able to work with them on the midterm programme by 2015. Not all of our figures, not all of our calculations were accepted by public organizations because they had higher expectations. But in general, we have clearly understood the priorities of the same public organizations. And now we're starting to move on to these priorities. So that's what we did. If we take this deal that we've signed with the Afghans, with representatives of the Afghan organizations that apply to all the participants in the war, what we've been able to do, and what's already in the budget that we've passed on to you. An increase of 20 percent, compared to 2011, is the main pension of people with disabilities. Today, Ukraine has a total pension of 2 thousand,589 dollars. And this increase is going to be made to 3,000 112 dollars. An increase of 30 percent in pensions or monthly life support to the dead. After raising in 2011, after the July budget review, this figure was increased from 191 bracelets to 275. Already in 2012, it will be increased from 275 to 23.5 percent. It also raises by 30 percent the pension or monthly life support of family members of dead combat participants. There is an increase of 20 percent by May 5. So we're trying to increase these payments all the time. I think we can continue to be able to continue not only in terms of the war participants but also in other socially vulnerable categories of our population. The MP's faction of the Party of the Regions. "How did the minimum wage change from 2009 to 2011? How did the government plan to change the minimum wage in 2012?" Ladies and gentlemen, we've talked about this a little bit higher. With regard to the minimum wage, when the current government began to exercise its powers, the main task was to determine that, with a view to social protection for the low-paid category of workers and to avoid the negative consequences of creating and unwarranted minimum government wage guarantees, consistent and balanced steps should be taken to increase the minimum wage. To carry out this task, the minimum wage was increased by five times during 2010. We have raised this level five times. And what's more, the government came in March, and we made a rule in the 2010 budget that allowed us to raise the wage, starting on January 1, 2010 and the back number, we've returned all the debt that was already in stock. As a result, the minimum wage in 2010 increased by 23.9 percent, as compared to 2009. In 2011, the government continued its policy of increasing minimum wages. Yes, in December 2011, the minimum wage is 1004 bracelets, about 9 percent higher than in December 2010. And the State Budget 2012 project foresees that in 2012 the minimum wage will be an average of 1,098 dollars, 14 percent higher than in 2011. Once again, I want to remind you that the inflation rate in the budget is projected to rise by 7.9 percent. That is, 14 percent -- almost double the minimum wage increase in the country. It's the MP's Timoshenko- "Fatherland" block. "Please answer, why does the title of Bill 9127 not match its contents? What is it? Is it the desire to hide from the public the changes that are actually being made by the government, or to get tens of billions of dollars from the government budget in Kabmin's manual administration?" I would like to point out, Mr. People's Honourable People's Deputies, that no one was willing to hide change from the public, as no one was persecuting to get billions of dollars in manual control. It should also be recalled that a number of valid bills were introduced following the initiative of the previous government in 2008. A number of valid laws have been changed, which are related to the reduction of social benefits, benefits, guarantees and compensation. Once again, Bill 9127 did not foresee any reduction in the amount of social benefits, benefits, guarantees and compensation that are currently being paid. It should also be noted that a number of these sizes were determined by the decision of the previous government. Honourable national deputies, the main purpose of the bill, is to bring the budget into line with the needs and execution of court decisions. The MP's faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". "In memorandums with public organizations, the government commits itself to increasing aid to Afghans, black people. Why are the other 14 categories of drinkers not involved in the age and health protests: veterans and children of war, workers with disabilities, and so on?" Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that when we made a deal with representatives of Afghan organizations, this agreement applies to all participants in the war. And what we did for participants in the Afghan war is spreading to all of our war veterans, including the Great Homeland War, including those who participated in international other conflicts. No matter what, I want to say that. I've already told you how much social pay goes up there. We predicted that all those involved in the war, the disabled, on the average, would receive an increase of 20 percent in 2012. Chernobyl, disabled I, II, and III groups receive an increased pension, increased by 25 percent in 2012. And there's a whole range of solutions that relate to prosthetics, recovery, help for the families of the dead, help for families who have died in combat, and increase 20 to 30 percent in total. With regard to children of war, the budget we handed over to you provides for an increase in payment. Retire them by 20.5 percent. Once again, the inflation rate we put in the 2012 budget is 7.9 percent. Regrettably, there is no such great dynamic as would be desired by other categories, such as disabled people, disabled people. There are no disabled people in war veterans. There is an average increase of about ten percent. But anyway, it's ahead of inflation for 2012. Ukraine's Communist Party MP: "After the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Enforcement of Decisions" the next step, as has emerged from the recent government's 2012 Social and Economic Development Programme, should be the monetaryisation of the benefits. Undoubtedly, the monetaryization of the benefits will significantly reduce the already low social parameters of state aid for citizens. How quickly will such a rapid radical change of approach to providing for the social needs of citizens take place, and has the economic impact of these measures been calculated?" At present, honourable national MPs, most types of benefits are granted to citizens in a natural way. This is especially true of housing and utility benefits, communications services, and service travel. At the same time, according to the University of Minnesota, which is supported by public organizations, some types of social benefits could be viewed as such. For example, disabled people insist that they do not be offered a wheelchair so that they do not receive a wheelchair but that they receive a voucher, each disabled person receives a voucher, and chooses the wheelchair that suits him. And after that, the Cabinet of Ministers paid for it. The relevant bill has been implemented with the social organizations of the disabled and has been introduced to the Supreme Council. If the Supreme Council wills to do so, such a decision can be made. And I would also like to point out that in certain areas, let's say in the Volin region, we're now conducting an experiment where we're voluntarily giving people the benefit of electricity, getting money, or the benefit. Over 90 percent want to get the money because it makes people more comfortable doing it. So I want to make it clear that there's not going to be any forced vouchers or any forced monetaryization going on. Moreover, we do not foresee any fundamental steps for 2012. If any decisions are ever made, I believe that they should be imposed only on voluntary grounds so that a person can receive benefits or money or in a natural way, and that it is solely his decision. People's Party Deputies. Give a dynamic change in the minimum pension by age since 2009. How will the minimum pension by age change in 2012. The minimum pension age in accordance with article 28 of the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory government pension insurance" is set at the level of the subsistence minimum for persons who have lost their jobs. In December 2009, the minimum pension age was 573 bracelets. With the aim of raising the level of social protection of pensioners, especially those who receive minimum wages, the current government has increased the minimum age of pensions five times during 2010. In 2011, the practice of gradually increasing social standards continued. As a result of the decisions made, 734 bracelets were added to the minimum pension age in December 2010. I want to remind you that in December 2009, 573 bracelets were this size. In December 2011, he's going to make 800 bucks, and in December 2012, he's going to make 884 bracelets. Thus, today's government will ensure an increase of 54.3 percent in the minimum pension at the age of 2010-2012. The MP's faction of the Party of the Regions: "What has been done by today's government to increase aid for the birth of a child?" Dear National Deputies! You know that the issue of supporting children and families born is a special priority for both the President and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In this regard, the material support of families is vital. The extent to which a child is born depends on which child is born in the family — the first, the second, the third, or the next. This compared to the previous year has been increased one and a half times: from 12,000 240 dollars per child to 17,000 952 dollars, from 25,000 dollars to 36,000 dollars 720 dollars for the second child, from 50,000 to 73,000 440 dollars for the third child, and the same amount goes to every next child. Since April 9, 2011, the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children has become effective, which increases the child's birth rate, namely: for the first child from 24 thousand 960 dollars to 49 thousand 920 dollars. No, I'm sorry. For the first child, up to 24 thousand 960 dollars. I want to remind you that before that this number was 17,000 952 bracelets. For the second child, up to 52,000, for the third, up to 104,000. 26, 52, and 104 thousand dollars is going to add up. I think it's a very good dynamic, and it's going to stimulate an increase in the birth rate of children in Ukraine. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is a deputy faction. "According to experts, the so-called pension reform does not decide."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u3	Sergey Leonidovich, you finish this question and we'll move on to questions from the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u4	"..does not solve any problem in the pension system and will not result in an increase in pension. Instead, we're going to have an average pension reduction of 200-250 dollars. How does this decrease, as well as increase the retirement age for women to 60 years and up to 62 years for civil servants, increase the insurance period for teachers and scientists to 30 years for women, and up to 35 years for men with articles 22, 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which prohibits narrowing the content and scope of valid rights and freedoms for Ukrainian citizens?" Ladies and gentlemen, interpreting the Constitution is not an official's matter, so to speak and answer that particular question, I think only the Constitutional Court of Ukraine can. As for the legislation and the problems of the Pension Fund, I want to say that we have had a very difficult situation that has threatened practically in this and in the coming years the system of pension payments for our pensioners. We had a huge threat of increasing the budget deficit of the Pension Fund. 2009: 30 billion; 2010: 34 billion; this year we have managed to change this trend and we will have a maximum of 21.5 billion debt, a deficit in the Pension Fund budget. For the next year -- what we've already done -- this is going to go down dramatically: to 2 billion 200 million dollars. It is very important that figures also fall with regard to the pension fund's budget to GDP: 18.1 percent in 2009, 17.5, 2011-16.5, up to 17 percent. In 2012, this is expected to be 14.5 percent. I mean, I think we've done exactly what we've done with you by adopting this law: we've guaranteed a stable pension payment and a steady increase that will be higher than the price increase for our pensioners for the next and previous years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Please, we have 25 minutes left to question the members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please sign up for the question. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear Sergio Leonidovich! Thank you for the meaningful answers to these questions. I think after today's explanation on the question, I think there'll be less reason to scream and scream in vain. So I have a particular question for you. One of the most vulnerable categories of citizens is members of families of dead military personnel. What does today’s government do to improve the level of social protection of this category of citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u7	Thank you for asking. Once again, I want to say what we agreed with the public organizations that came to the Supreme Council, unfortunately, we came to the Supreme Council, with which we were unable to communicate before. But what I want to stress is that the proposals that we've just agreed with them and that they've supported are already in your budget project that we've submitted to the Supreme Council. What's the story? An increase of 25 percent, compared to 2011, the main size of pensions for people with disabilities, I said that this increase would be from $2000,289 to $3000,112. An increase of 30 percent of pensions, or monthly life support, to families of dead military personnel. This applies to all military personnel who are today, not just internationalist soldiers, they're all military personnel. An increase of 23.5 percent of pensions, or monthly life support, to families of dead persons with disabilities of the Great Homeland War. An increase of 30 percent of pensions, or monthly life support, to families of dead members of the fighting, guerrillas, and subversives. An increase of 20 percent will also be made for children of war, by 20.5 percent. And by 20 percent, which is also going to be very important, the payout goes up to May 9. And we have already foreseen in this budget that there will be no such thing. I've got 21 minutes! There's not going to be internationalist soldiers and the soldiers of the Great Homeland War getting all kinds of pay. They're going to get pay levels. It is also very important that 43 percent of the money we allocate to the disabled for prosthetics and all other forms of assistance has increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, I ask you to form a question for a minute. The answer to the question is in two minutes. Svetlana Schmelov, Communist faction. Please. So it's all going according to the Rules for the time being.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u9	Please pass the word to Cibenko Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u10	Peter Cibenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u11	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council. Sergey Leonidovich, I'm here. I have a few questions. Question one. When will the proper negotiations be held with Afghan veterans and Chernobyl veterans? And when will the corresponding agreements be signed with other categories of benefits? That's the first question. Second question. In that memorandum signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the head of the veteran organization of Afghan Veterans, which is a public councillor for Mikli Janović, there are copies of the aid increase. Well, for example, the disabled group I by May 9 will get 15 percent of the prescribed law in the following year, instead of 13.5 percent as in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u12	As for those negotiations that we practically did not stop with public organizations. With the Chernobylers we've already had since the signing of the memorandum, the first working group, determined clearly with priorities, they've given their 15 most important issues to consider with them. We gave them complete information. We have with them today the same information that government officials and Chernobyl are using. And we will also do the same with participants in other social organizations. As far as the other categories are concerned. As long as we are approached by the public organization, we are willing to sit down and cooperate with them. What you're saying is "koopian growth." What I'm saying is that what's now being laid on the Chernobyl population has not increased significantly in percent and in real terms since 2006. And after the war, there was no such thing for more than 10 years -- a promotion. Because a pension for war invalids is plus 20 percent before what they have, I don't think it's a penny. Maybe for someone it's small money, but for the disabled of war, I think it's big money, 25 percent increases the pension of the disabled, and I also think it's high enough support. You're talking about an increase in payout by May 9th on holiday. The disabled and group in this year received, the Great Homeland War, a thousand bracelets, the disabled and the group. Disabled And the group gets, the internationalist soldier gets less than 800 percent. For the next year, both the disabled and the Group I will receive 1,200 dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u13	Vitaly Corge, "BUT" faction is "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u14	Please give the floor to my colleague Alexander Goodimi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u15	Alexander Goodima, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u16	Gudima, faction of "The Motherland of Motherhood" of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Mr. Chairman, do I have the right to ask a question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u17	You have the right to ask any member of the Cabinet of Ministers a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u18	Okay. So I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Azarov. There was information in the press about the purchases of BlackMornaftegas, a subsidiary of NAC Naftogas -- drilling plants. They're talking about not paying off large sums. It is said that under a crisis, the financial state of NAC will cause damage to the national interests of the state. Imagine, then, that next year’s damage will attract you as prime minister to criminal responsibility. Everyone will say, and with the Prime Minister here, these are the host objects. So my question. Yulia Tymoshenko is in prison for the agreements that are made between NAC Naftogaz and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u19	Please finish your question. Did they finish it or not? Well, get it over with.Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u20	Julia Tymoshenko is in prison for a deal between Skrtransgas and NAK Naftogaz on a technological gas that was potentially detrimental to Ukraine's national interests. I want you to compare the analogy of whether Prime Minister Azarov is ready to sit in prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u21	Thank you. Thank you. Mikola Janović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u22	Dear National Deputies! Naftogaz is buying as much gas as it takes to provide the Ukrainian people's agriculture for the winter. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u23	Heresy, the "BUT is the Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Zabzaluku Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u25	Roman Zabzaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u26	I have a question for Minister Mogilov. Mr. Mohilov, your outstanding contempt for the people's deputies is certainly transformed into subordinates. Because the behavior of the DAI, the militia in the country, especially near and in the Cave Court, and not only under your sex. All this and much more negative is the result of your doctrine of turning the IMF into a political gendarmerie. By no means are the opposition activists being spied on by the U.S. and the U.S. The entire army of birds and baskets of so - called special divisions is designed solely for beating citizens that, in accordance with the Constitution, by peaceful protests, they defend their social and political rights. Questions. When will you teach your subjects not to carry out criminal orders, to respect citizens, to present a certificate? Not hide behind black helmets. The other one. You're asking the population to have another 15 billion, so to speak, for total happiness. Apparently to buy another batch of trocams and vests. Or should we offer it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, please, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u28	If you have any evidence of the illegal activity of the militia, refer it to the prosecutor’s office. And so, with the emphasis you're talking about some sort of police violation, it's insinuation, not more. That's right, you have a political pianist. Now let's move on. As to the relative 3 billion I'm asking for police equipment. No, let's talk in turn. So it's about 3 billion. Those events that we had in Odessa showed that there was a need for police equipment. We've got the weapons that were purchased I don't know who: 800 bracelets that don't protect from bullets. So in the past year and year, we're going to buy modern equipment that can protect our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u29	To fight the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u30	Now about the gendarmerie, because I'm being accused of having a lot of police at the Cave Court. Here, the so-called opponents every day make an application that there will be 30, 50, 70 thousand, and I have to, considering your application, issue such a number of police officers. And there's 100 or 200 coming in, but I'm putting so many people out. And if you stop collecting these piles of people, and I've shown the judges before, who's being picked up in the Ivano-Frankow district, and I'll prove that after the verdict, I'll show these materials, the RS case, where it's proven that they're gathering former militia officers, if you stop doing that, then the police will be less in the state and they'll be doing their duty to protect public order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u31	Anatoly Yagoferov, faction "BUT is the Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u32	Please give the MP the word Boluri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u33	Antonina Boloura, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u34	Thank you. I have a question for Boyk Yuri Anatolyovich. Yuri Anatoliyovich, subject of Timoshenko, the subject of a criminal case. Tymoshenko is accused of exceeding the authority and harming the state. Research has shown that there is no damage. NAK Naftogaz and Ukranzgas ended 2009 with profits much higher than they were in 2008. Audiences have shown that these are at the expense of gas transactions, reduced costs, and increased profits. The civil prosecutor said on the last day that these were lost benefits. I think it's wrong. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u35	Ask questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u36	Please respond to your civil suit, it's not beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u37	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. So maybe we should go to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u38	We have, if you want the facts, when the two leaders of Naftogazu Ukraine refused to sign the contract, it was the head of Naftogazu and the first deputy, they first refused, and when they heard from the former Prime Minister, which is the decision of the government, she made them sign it, considering that she gave them this paper. As far as I know, this decision has been falsified, and that's where the criminal case is against the former Prime Minister. In terms of damages, because very large losses were caused by Crustransgazu, because a month before the contract was signed, he was buying 180 dollars of fuel gas, and a month later, 360 dollars of fuel. I'm sure you can count the damage yourself. So we can't cancel this civil invitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u39	Yes. Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u40	Dear Sergey Leonidovich, for Ham. In the past 10 years, 200,000 people have left the Department of Internal Affairs police force because of the Ham political attitude that has changed over 10 years, the entire militia has changed. So far, the average wage in the Ministry is the lowest in all the power departments. How does the government plan to solve this problem and even the wages so that they're motivated to work in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system? What's more, I want to tell you. In my day, 20 years ago, the new reception reserve at the Ministry of Internal Affairs was huge. Experts, experts, literate, professionally trained people. Unfortunately, today, Minister Mogilov, like the entire government, and the whole country, has serious problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. First of all, the salary of the entire budget area depends primarily on the first tariff level. The first tariff charge then increases immediately to all other government officials or budget officials. 2008-2009 practically this first tariff charge was frozen, nothing was done. After that, we accepted and increased the first tariff grade five times in 2010. What did this lead to? First of all, it leads to a decrease in the gap between the first tariff rate and the subsistence minimum when we increase the first tariff charge. And this enabled us on average to raise the wage for the budget area by about 17 percent. I think we should continue this policy in the years to come. What else do I think we should do? Of course, administrative reform should be done at a higher level. And what we've done today is that 30 percent of the shrinks in the ministries, in the departments, in the departments, in the departments themselves. It's also very important. And I think that money in most of it should go to the support of those people who work in the budget area in places. I'm talking about the same militias, too. What we planned for 2012 is also about the same. And we managed to negotiate with the unions, it was a very hard position of the same unions, to continue with the first tariff rate rate to approach the minimum of living. We did it. The average increase is going to be higher than the inflation rate. But I realize that this still won't be enough. And we need to continue our efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u42	Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u43	Please give us an opportunity to find out the urgent question of the colleague-carpathic Vasil Amazing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u44	Vassil Wonders, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u45	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. Basil Wonder, faction of the Party of Regions, Ivano-Frankishte. Dear Sergey Leonidovich! The Law on Pension Reform has been passed, and I have a question about it. Please tell me, what is the government doing to implement this law? How do these actions affect the size of pension payments? And in general, what will Ukrainian pensioners receive in addition to the adoption of this law, and if they do, what will they receive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u46	Thank you. When we talk about the Pension Fund, there are two problems for the state, specific problems for specific people. Most pensioners, especially those who have long retired, refer to the category of the poorest Ukrainians themselves. We're saying, roughly, that we have about seven million people who get a pension below 900 dollars. And the second problem is the macroeconomic problem. We have a very large pension fund. Any problems with the Pension Fund’s budget are defined in the central budget, in the budget, which means that teachers, doctors, and military personnel are suffering from a lack of money. As far as exactly what people get. First of all, we've had a stable situation with the Pension Fund. I said, we have a significant and very radical budget deficit, that says one thing: pensions are being paid, paid by our government and paid by our government. For the following year, about nine percent of what we planned increases the average pension. And I think we're going to do everything we can to make sure that over the course of the year we're able to collect some more of the right money, which, first of all, I think we're going to have to set up pensions for the very low-income pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u47	Orest Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u48	Dear Sergey Leonidovich, one of the main problems of the disaster management disabled in Chernobyl AES is timely treatment. What has the government done, and what plans are made to improve the treatment of these categories of citizens? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u49	We've had very difficult negotiations with the Chernobyl community, first of all, with the Chernobyl Union, and during these negotiations, we've made our priorities clear. First of all, public organizations are asking for pensions for people with disabilities -- that's the main problem for them. Next. What was the solution? We signed a memorandum -- and pensions are increasing by an average of 25 percent in 2012 for people with disabilities. The average pension today is 2 000 326 dollars, an increase of 25 percent, and the average pension for the disabled is going to be 2 000 907 dollars. There is also an increase of at least 85 percent of the cost of comprehensive health care and treatment. In the previous year, 2011, we had 11.5 billion in our budget -- we're going to have 21.3 billion. And the Chernobyls insist that we include some specific diseases that we need to count. It's very important that we increase by at least 155.5 million dollars, or 43 percent, the cost of providing disabled Ukrainians, this refers to all persons with disabilities, technical and other means of rehabilitation. This figure is increased in the budget we offered you, from 361.4 million dollars to 516.9 million dollars. I think that's the way it is. There is also a step-by-step improvement of the wage rate that will be charged for work in the estrangement zone. And I think it's a systemic approach, and more than that, we see a program like this, we worked with them until 2015. We may disagree with the numbers because they want to get this growth very quickly, but we can stand the priorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u50	Yegorenko, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u51	The word has been delivered to him, the dry word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u52	Who? Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear Sergey Leonidovich! The success of the reform process with a view to modernising Ukraine certainly depends on a comprehensive approach. We're on our way to reform. But the reform of socio-working relations in Ukraine has been halted. Unfortunately, the Labour Code -- December 1971 -- now does not satisfy interests, does not protect the interests of both employees and employers. There is a compromise decision: After the first reading, adopt the Labour Code. There is a compromise solution reached between the different sides of the dialogue. Please tell me, when can we expect government comments to be made so that we can adopt the Labour Code in our second reading? That's the first question. And the second question. Today is the International Day for Worthy Work. I mean, for a decent salary. 17.10 — The Day of Combating Poverty. Where the strategy of overcoming poverty is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u54	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u55	As far as labor law is concerned. I think, really, what we have is not much modified legislation in the '70s is a problem for the country. And unfortunately, a few times over the last few years, we've been trying to deal with this problem -- and we haven't been able to find any compromise. Unfortunately, in my opinion, after negotiations with these employers, the compromise, or the choice that the union has today, in some ways, does not accommodate employers. But no matter what, I think we should take this compromise soon, find this compromise, and by the time New Year comes, we have to adopt the Labour Code. I think that's what this is about right now, and the situation in the world can have an impact on us. On the one hand, we have to protect, first of all, the employee, because in the negotiations, the employer, the employee, always has a strong position behind the employer. But on the other hand, in some ways, I think we need to find solutions to help employers. Let’s just say that it is easier for him to take people into temporary employment. This will make our legislation more flexible, and it will reduce whether the shadow sector or unemployment. I think we should soon find such a compromise between the professions and employers. And even if we don't have a final decision that will be supported by someone, we still have to make the minimum loss. Then it's going to be time -- we're going to keep going. As for the strategy of combating poverty. We've prepared an appropriate program, and now we want to confirm it with the Cabinet of Ministers. But it's perfectly clear to us what's first.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u56	Please, the microphone to complete the sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u57	poverty can be overcome in two such significant ways. First. We need to stimulate economic growth. There's going to be economic growth, there's going to be money in the budget to redistribute it nicely. And second position. We need to see how we redistribute what we have in our budget. Only 23 percent of what we give in social support comes from the poor. Because we still have a sectoral approach today when we give benefits to the whole field without considering a particular family or considering the income of a particular person in this family. We have prepared an appropriate bill that will bind all our payments to the benefits that remain, but it will still bind us to income. If we can do it with you, I think we can solve the poverty problem in Ukraine at a fast enough pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u58	Yes, on this note I thank the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. "The hour of questions is over." Thank you, Prime Minister, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers, for taking part in the "hour of questions to the government." [[Applause]] Honourable National MPs, two factions: the BUT faction - "The Fatherland" and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" - demand a recess to make a statement. The statement is given by Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, faction of "BUT - "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u59	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to turn to you personally in the presence of the entire hall and make the following statement. Personally, as Head of the Supreme Council, you have repeatedly supported the Supreme Council as a whole in uncomplicated situations, and a particular deputy in particular. I am leading this to the conclusion of the unrighteous trial against Julia Timoshenko on October 11. This day, following an unconstitutional decision by a judge, a national MP, citizens are prohibited from being in the courtroom. By your commission, the profile committee considered the question and answered the question. Black is written in white, 1 paragraph: "According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law "On the Status of the People's Deputies" of the People's Deputies Act "On the Status of the People's Deputies" of the People's vocation is used without hindrance to the public authorities and authorities of local self-government, as well as the right of unimpeded access to all enterprises, institutions and organizations located in the territory of the country, irrespective of their subordination, forms of ownership, regime of secrecy". So using this document, we go to court in full, just like the days before. And we don't know what the reaction will be to the teeth of armed men. Although we do know what's going to happen. After all, the beating of deputies in this courtroom and in this court has already taken place in this court. We expect that, unfortunately, there can be bloodshed. And then it becomes obvious that not only will the Supreme Council wipe out their legs, but they will wipe out their bloody sticks. It'll be with us today, won't it? We ask clearly: When will the end be brought to this system of things? When will the Supreme Council be the Supreme Council, not the obedient voting mechanism? We have a decision in our hands, which includes a second point: the inability to give legal ratings to actions and court decisions regarding specific court decisions. Where, then, are these parliamentary controls on the observance of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, especially in the part of human rights and national MPs in particular? Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the national deputies who are equal in this room before the people, before God, before the law, before the Constitution, go 11 numbers to the slaughter. How can we act, and what will happen? I'm asking the head of the Supreme Council. I hope for the answer that, as you always say, will put the Supreme Council on the level that it really deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u60	Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Friday, we make parliamentary inquiries. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Oleg Lalashka to the President of Ukraine about the criminalization of officials of the Luhansk City Council, who attacked Michael Pashuk, activist of the Radical Party of Oleg Lalashka, who was forced to bite the finger of the attacker during his self-defense. I'm betting on a motion to support the question. [[11:10:11]] For the 17th. Request not supported. Paul Ungurian to the President of Ukraine on the assignment of the Odessa District State Administration and the Odessa City Council Executive Committee to provide additional housing for the deceased’s family on the night of 29 - 30 September 2011 in the face of a criminal group in the Odessa village of Koshara district of police officer Alexander Rosemaritzi. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:10:56]] For 299 Request supported. I'm voting on a motion to refer a request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:11:17]] For 309 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Veacheslava Koval and Alexander Cnervolenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, Head of the Pecher District in Kiev State Administration for the establishment of an unknown perpetrators of an illegal temporary small architectural form - a fence around the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! In this regard, let me break off the request and give you complete information, because the insinuation continues and our fellow members of the national MPs want to build a pierre company in this regard, being, nevertheless, outside Ukraine in many parliaments and seeing what kind of checkpoints are there! This was captured by the media, including the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to put an end to the distortion and including the competition of national MPs on this issue, I declare once again officially. You have asked, I answer. According to financial documents, the amount paid for the repair and reconstruction of the fence, I emphasize, along the street of Gruszewski, after the traffic accident took place at night and the fence was broken down and the corrosive damage was 520,000! The Supreme Council of Ukraine has done nothing in this regard, nor is it going to do anything. And I'm talking to the media, I'm talking to journalists, and above all, I'm talking to you, dear fellows, not to create sensations where they don't exist. You have the right to call any employee, ask around and make yourself clear. I'm talking to my respectable colleagues again. There has never been such a thing that the MPs, working in the Supreme Council, have rocked each other, competed in who will show how much they earn, how much they feed on buffets, and so forth. Dear colleagues, and those who first do so, are first in line to get what they need. () [[Applause]] Let's vote once and cancel all of this so that we don't have any conversation. You're forcing me to publish who's getting better and all that. Stop embarrassing the Supreme Council. And since the request has been made, you will receive a written answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u61	That's not an answer, I've announced a parliamentary request, you'll get a written request, all of it. () [[B in m in s a l in]] That's not the answer, I'm just using the opportunity, and I've said the assessment on this point, it's not the answer to the question yet. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, my dear colleagues, the Supreme Council has funded the fence along the street of Gruszewski. Anything else, the MP's request I'll sign, let them answer. I want to say again, I'm not in charge of the Pecher administration, I'm not in charge of the Kyiv City State Administration. But let's figure it out first, and then we'll create sensations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u62	I'm not protecting anyone. I'm telling you again: The Supreme Council has absolutely nothing to do with the fence on the part of the Marian Palace. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Vladimir Karpuk to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the Volin District State Administration, Head of the Wallin District Council on Increasing Financing and Preventing the Reduction of the Permanent Number of Employees of the Creative Specialities of the Volin Academy of the Ukrainian Music and Dramatic Theatre of Chevchenk. Catherine Samoylik, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on violations of existing legislation in the area of the forgetfulness. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Prevention of Violations of Social Rights and Constitutional Guarantees to young people, in particular students, the provision of a draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2012 the size of a minimum standard academic scholarship for students of vocational and technical and higher education institutions of the I-IV level of accreditation, students and students of orphans and children deprived of parental care, no less than a viable minimum of citizens and use in this regard. Victor Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of the Ukrainian Oil Processing Hospital. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the construction of the second line of the National Museum "Memorial of Victims of Hungermares in Ukraine". Vladimir Leshchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on practical steps towards the completion of the gasification of the village of Leniyuk in the region of Chernigiv. Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of a working group from the study of the financial and economic situation of the Shastkin Casino Zirka and the implementation of appropriate measures to restore the full work of the listed state-owned enterprise. Eugene Marmazov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the operation of the drilling complex, as one of the alternatives to gas and oil in Ukraine's energy, on the basis of the assets of the State Holding Company Alexanderowogil and the repayment of debts to its employees on salary and other social payments. Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Odessa City Head for the non-retraining of City Hospital No. 7 in Odessa and for the protection of the constitutional rights of residents of the city for medical services. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the violation of Ukrainian legislation regarding workers' individuals and the protection of the rights of members of the Chernobyl Workers' Union. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of effective measures to ensure the necessary number of pre-school educational institutions to overcome the problem of under-replacement in kindergartens. Caterina Vasuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer to the Bakowtsev Rural Council of the Lutsk Region of the Volin Region of the Lands of the State Enterprise of Research "Premigation" of the Volin Institute of Agricultural Production of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Minister of Finance, on the need to secure funding at the expense of Ukraine’s national budget in 2012 for the acquisition of medical equipment for the National Scientific Centre of the Institute of Cardiology of the Academy of Strasbourg. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration for improper consideration of parliamentary appeals, failure to comply with the legal requirements of the National Deputy of Ukraine, improper performance of official duties by the Chief Executive of the State Department in the Kyiv-Svetoshin region and Kyiv-Svetoshinsky District State Administration of the Kyiv region regarding the consideration of the citizen's claim to Love Pavlenko on the inability to obtain a State act on land ownership for eight months. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need to ensure full funding for the needs of Ukraine's scientific and practical centre of endocrine surgery, endocrine transplantation and tissue of the Ministry of Health during 2012. Alexander Shepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the relocation of the residents of the emergency buildings in the city of Dniprožinsk Dnipropetrovsk. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the National Programme for the Development and Financing of the National Dictionary Base of Ukraine. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of the problem of social security for the disabled of the Armed Forces, as outlined in the address of the resident of the city of Zynków in Poltava district of Alexi Chrogo. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Health Minister for Mass Violations of Executive Authorities and Officials of Health Institutes for the Rights of People's Income Categories to Free Drug Security and the need for a comprehensive solution to the problem. Sergei Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the free provision of the first group of disabled persons with vital medical care. Vasil Kravczuk and Yuri Prokopczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, regarding the failure to comply with the decisions of the Lviv Court of Appeal, the Hmélník District Administrative Court on the cessation of the Society's productive activities, with limited responsibility for "Centre of Innovation and Construction Technology". The Group of Greenewets to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of housing and other issues of orphans. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine on taking urgent action to stop the gross violation by the New Cooperation Directorates of the city of Genicek Herson of the constitutional right of private entrepreneurs to engage in entrepreneurial activities, the illegal elimination of jobs, the failure to pay taxes to the specified enterprise, the failure to respond to official appeals by citizens by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Administration of the President of Ukraine and the imposition of liability on the guilty persons. Viacheslava Koval and Alexander Cnervolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need to provide additional funding in 2011 for the Ukrainian Scientific and Practical Centre for Endocrine Surgery, Endocrine Organ Transplantation and tissue of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Natalia Kraljevska to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the Improvement of Teacher Pensions. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for monitoring the regularity of passenger transport on suburban bus routes. Jury Crook to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the restoration of the legitimate rights of participants in hostilities in Afghanistan and other local conflicts, persons with disabilities of war and members of their families. Edouard Prutnik to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the State Administration of Railway Transport of Ukraine, the Montenegrin Regional Government Administration, the State Area and Sectoral Union of South-West Railways, the Professional Association of Railways and Transport Constructioners of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the collective appeal of representatives of the professors of the South-West Railway Railway Railway Station on the need to use appropriate measures to preserve the status of a separate unit and workplace for railway workers in the Cernigiv Region. Mikoli Shershun to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the situation in the Children's Sanatorium complex "Agatovka" of the Plain region. Jury Odarchenka to the head of the Central Electoral Commission on the unsatisfactory response to the parliamentary appeal regarding the conditions of inclusion in the House of the Stepani Rural Council of the Herson district of Sergija Babienka, who did not receive most of the votes of the electorate. Lilia Grigorovich to the President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine on the implementation of the constitutional right to housing by Ukrainian citizens. Valerija Baranova to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the appropriateness of lifting the ban on hunting in Ukraine’s National Natural Parks. Vasila Amazing to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the inclusion of a coastal and anti-removal facility in the village of Kosmach, in the region of Kosovo, in the list of conservation measures to be financed by the State Environmental Protection Fund. Vasila Zdravna to the minister of extraordinary situations in Ukraine regarding the provision of housing for citizens of Vlasia Havuchak and Praskovia Rilczuk, which would not endanger their lives. Vladimir Kaplienka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the issue of the registration of hunting weapons. Vladimir Kaplienka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the inaction of the management of the Shevchenkov district office of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in Kiev during an investigative examination of the statement made by the citizen of Italy de Leo Mario Ricardo and the non-application of the measures envisaged by the Ukrainian legislation. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the prevention of breast cancer and full provision of maternal care for Ukrainian citizens. Alexander Dove to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the participation of football fans in the atrocities that took place in Lviv on May 9, 2011, during the Day of Victory. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine to provide information on the start of the heating season in kindergartens, schools, hospitals and other social institutions. [[Ribakova, Chaplin and others. Total 20 deputies]] Alexia Plotnikov and Valerija Bondik to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the State Agency for Land Resources of the Republic of Ukraine, the Kyiv City State Administration on the comprehensive review of the re-examination of Sergio Speedenk on the need to contribute to the recognition of ownership of the legally acquired land area, the removal of obstacles to the acquisition of a State right to property on the street of Pietgorski, 64 in Kiev, and the application of effective measures to protect the property rights of citizens who are violated under independent circumstances by the State authorities. Gregory Omelchenka to the head of the High Council of Justice on the conduct of the review and the application of the measures for the dismissal of the judge of the Kyiv Aleksija Ogurtsova District Administrative Court for violating the oath of the judge and for the premeditated decision on the prohibition of the organization and the holding of meetings of the Plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Vladimir Leschchenka to the head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service on the need to pay the congregation for the special use of water by the political party. Vladimir Ariev to the head of the National Penitentiary Service of Ukraine on the need for an objective examination by the deputy head of the Department of Health and Health Services of the National Penitentiary Service of Ukraine, Captain of the Internal Service, Eugene Polyakov. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the State Agency for Road Traffic of Ukraine, the State Architectural and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, the State Sanitary and Epidemiological Service of Ukraine, the Kiev City Public Administration, the Kyiv District in Kiev State Administration, the Thessaloniki District in Kiev State Administration, the Bolossian District in Kiev State Administration, the Holding Company Kyiviskbud on the need for a comprehensive review of citizens' appeals regarding the improper provision of residential and utility services in various parts of Kiev, in accordance with the laws of Ukraine on welfare and civil service. [[Bondik, Prutnik and others]] Mikoli Shershun to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for his failure to respond to the pension provision of the village of Birchal Kostopil district of Olga Tarasyuk. Irina Herashchenko and Olga Gerasimük to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, First Deputy Chief of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crime for the violation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine in the creation and operation of schools and other state institutions of the Autonomous Republic of Crime for the admission of deputies of local authorities. Irina Herashchenko and Olga Gerasimük to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ukraine’s Minister of Internal Affairs, on the abuse of journalist’s rights by persons engaged in illegal detective and other illegal activities in Ukraine. Anatoly of Matvienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the legality of a criminal case against the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Goodima. Mikoli Tomenka and John Kirilenko to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the legality of the Society's organization with limited responsibility "Granite Group", Donetsk, the production of granite in the areas of the Nedayvodsk and Lozov village councils of the Krivoreske district of Dnipropetrov district reserved for the natural reserve of the Inglecski Step. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association Kiivenergo, for the consideration of complaints by residents of House No.10 on the street of Niemanska in Kiev, for the conduct of an objective investigation of the facts identified in the complaint and for the alleged legislative responsibility of officials of the Society, with limited responsibility for the housing and utility of Geologist for the unjustified failure to provide hot water services to the designated house for five months and for the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens. Valerija Baranov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-admission of immovable property items of the Private Shareholders Association Priazovkurt, the city of Berdjansk, for the benefit of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Igora Ribakova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the Cessation of the Illegal Extraction of Sand The Closed Stock Company of the South Investment Company in Lake Donuzlaw of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the unlawful actions of persons accompanying the regime of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, their damage to the private property of the citizens, the creation of an emergency on the road, and the involvement of the persons in question. [[car]] Valery Behwaz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the "Cyrovgrad Financial and Industrial Group". Valeria Behwazza to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the raiding of the Krasnosil sugar plant. Igor Alekseieva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the facts and on the use of prosecutorial measures. Vassil Spak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures of prosecutorial response to events taking place in the Slobydsko-Kulchieuvetsk village council of Kamyanec-Podil district of Hmeljna district. Vladimir Ariev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a review of the facts presented in the statement by the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Lviv Regional Social Organization, "Solidarity" Taras Gupala. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the adoption of appropriate measures to halt the illegal possession of land by the inhabitants of the village of Kurasov of the Bilopil district of Suma. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal release by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 180 million 950,000 dollars for the construction of a business terminal at Donetsk Airport for private persons when the Government claims that there is no funds for social benefits. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the raiding of municipal buildings in Andriyevski, in which the workshops of Ukrainian artists are located, the Association of Modern Art Actors, Museums, Gallery and numerous other cultural and artistic institutions. Grigory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legal evaluation of the actions of the judge of the Kyiv Aleksija Ogurtsov District Administrative Court and on the violation of the criminal case for the decision of the notoriously unjust decision to prohibit the organization and to hold meetings of the Plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Alexander Kasynyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the creation of fictitious enterprises for the purpose of illegal money-laundering and tax evasion by the management of a limited-liability company called the Hellenic Combine of Bread Products. Olega Lalashka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the violation of a criminal case against the Prime Minister of Ukraine and officials of the Pension Fund of Ukraine on the basis of the offences provided for in articles 365 and 382 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Gregory Smituha to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the formal reaction of the prosecutors to the parliamentary inquiry announced at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 19 November 2010 regarding the appointment of a review in connection with the approval by the District Court of Kharkiv of the decision on the legalization of the works of the casino "Premier Palace" in Kiev, the text and the requisitions of which are not available in the Ukraine's Single State Register of Judicial Decisions. Alexander Kuzmuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of a criminal case involving a violation of traffic safety rules that led to the death of Alexander Kuzmenko and Marina Chelk. Jury Odarchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the completion of the Single State Register of Judgments and the delay in issuing electronic signatures to judges. Jury of Lithuania to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine for addressing the head of the Lightwater City Organisation of the People's Party of Ivan Malinovski for violations by officials of the Slavotic Pension of the Kirovogradturist branch of labour legislation. Sergia Košin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the misconduct of the employees of the Anti-Corruption Bureau of the General Directorate for Combating Organised Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, applied to the Sarnen City Head and the employees of the executive apparatus of the Sarnen City Council of the Plain Region. Sergey Pavlenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation between the private stock company Interlogos and the Kyiv Regional Road Administration, the State Shareholder Company, the Automobile Roads of Ukraine. Mikoli Tomenka and Igor Jereshka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the cases of land-pities abuses committed in the villages of Bilouszovka and Periwinka in the region of Cherkas region, the protection of legal rights and the interests of their owners. Vladimir Litvinov to the Director-General of the Society, with limited responsibility for the Dolba Fuel and Energy Company Dobropilavugil, to comply with the safety standards of the coal industry. Alexander Golub to the head of the Lviv District State Administration for systematic violations of established sanitary standards by the Society with limited responsibility for the Jablonje gift, which adversely affects the health of the inhabitants of the town of Lviv district and the surrounding environment. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the decisive disagreement between the village community of Melushka in the Choral region of Poltava with the unjustified closure of the Melushkov School and the need to restore its full-time work. Thus, honourable national MPs, 137 parliamentary requests have been made, including one parliamentary request addressed to the President of Ukraine. Honourable People's Deputies, according to the Rules of the People's Deputies of Ukraine Volodymyr Alexanderovich Yavorowski, addressed a letter to justify his dissatisfaction with the reply to a previous parliamentary request. According to the Rules, Vladimir Yavorowski is entitled to speak for 3 minutes to respond to a dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u63	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland Party. Good morning, Ukraine! Dear colleagues, I don't think anyone doubts that we live in a poor country anymore. When I say "poor," I mean the main array of our people. It's not even hidden by the government because it's officially said that we're going to have more poor people. I don't think anyone doubts that. And here's the Prime Minister, who told us everything, but he didn't give us a particular number, where it increases by 10-15, there's a bracelet of something, forgetting that inflation eats, literally whines at night, eating these pitiful supplements. As a result, naturally I had a question. How many Ukrainian presidents have residences, and what is it worth? I went to the Head of the Air Force, and I got the answer. And the answer suddenly turned out to be a few residences. It's like we don't have them anymore. I'll call you back. In 2010, $83 million was spent on renovations. I want to tell you that the President of the Czech Republic has a single residence. The President of France has three residences. Even Russia, with its oil, has 10 residences. Our President Janukovic and the previous one are 13! A total of 13 residences! So where do we live, please explain?Oh, my God! What kind of country is this?Oh, my God! What's next? You know that Synora was built about 8 or 9 years ago. The money was put there by Yushchenko when it was repaired. Now you can imagine what I'm going to tell you in 2011 now, how much is being translated into "Signora" -- 33 million! Listen, who's this monster, this Sinora, who literally eats money once in a while?Oh, my God! And I wanted to hear the answer to those questions. I couldn't hear them at all. I want to tell you, look, a name for you. Besides, we've got the money -- I just, Vladimir Mikhailovich read out my request -- 180 million for the construction of another airport for the Donnie elite! Guys, are you already chewing on these povertyes that are in our country today?Oh, my God! Because this year, half a billion dollars will be allocated to all the President's residences, I emphasize, half a billion dollars! Because of this, there is simply no need to talk about the conscience. That's why I'm asking you, I'm talking to the Head of Public Administration again, don't lie, call it clear. Because I just took some of the data from the press that the journalists dug up. And please go to Ukrainian Truth or buy a magazine called Correspondent -- you'll see, you'll see, you'll see, you'll finally take a picture of a feudal daisy in Medjugorje with gold toilets, taps and the like. So once again, what country are we living in?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u64	Dear National Deputies! We included two urgent drafts with you yesterday. The first is the draft of the Law on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 on clarifying the provisions relating to the space sector of Ukraine, and I must, my fellow Members, apologize to you. For technical reasons, he was not included in the schedule, although yesterday he was assigned by the Secretariat to prepare him for consideration today, on Friday. I'd like to take it with understanding. That's why I'm announcing a draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on position clarification]] [[Registration number 9189]] Since it is not complicated, the bill, I ask you to support the initiative and the proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:41:17]] For 196 Decision taken. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine appointed Mr. Rybak’s Deputy Minister of Finance, Sergio Alexandrovich. The focal point will be the chairman of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valérie Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The Honorable Presidium! Dear National Deputies! This bill is designed to systematize state guarantees for investment projects this year. The bill provides for the final volume of State guarantees, as was done in the State Budget Act, of 15 billion dollars. To date, a number of State guarantees have been issued. These include State guarantees for financing infrastructure projects related to the championship and other important projects for the state. In addition, draft government regulations have been adopted to finance additional expenditures such as the space sector. It's a very attractive investment project, so it's also included in possible safeguards. The changes in this law will contribute to the implementation of this project in a timely and comprehensive manner. Therefore, we propose to support the proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers and to take into account the fact that the article of the Ukrainian Code of Master has established that State guarantees may be granted under the obligations of the holders of the public sector in cases and manner provided for by law. So the Cabinet of Ministers will fully implement the framework of this bill, which is presented. And the Budget Code also provides for us, I mean the Ministry of Finance, to give these State guarantees on the basis of decisions made by the Cabinet of Ministers, or by international agreements. Therefore, the adoption of the draft Law does not require an increase in the expenditure of the State budget, nor does it increase the provision of guarantees, but it will result in the systematization and transfer of these guarantees to important investment projects for the State. So we ask you to support this project, take it as a base and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u66	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valerius Alexiovich Baranov, chairman of the committee
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u67	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting on September 21st, discussed a bill amending article 9 of the State Budget Act 2011 by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill provides for a clarification of the provisions of part one of article 9 of the State Budget Act, which defines the amount of guarantees given by the government in the amount of 15 billion dollars by removing the direction of granting such guarantees. It should be noted that according to the Ministry of Finance, a decision has already been made to provide state guarantees worth 15 billion, of which 11.5 billion have been signed guarantee agreements. At the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the bill can be adopted. According to the Committee on Budgetary Questions, a decision has been made to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Law 9189 as a basis. I offer to accept it immediately and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I think the question is understandable. Is there no need to discuss it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Blackwolf wants to fly into space. Anyone else? Please, Alexander Black. Then sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u69	Is that how you sign up? Oh, well, you already gave me your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u70	No, I'm sorry, sign in here. I thought you were the only one pretending, but you are. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please, you're the first to sign up. She's a blacksmith.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u71	We didn't want to discuss it. Budget law, budget changes. Where it's seen to be us. In general, in any country in the world, any parliament, a bill relating to budget changes, was discussed under a reduced procedure, and they wanted not to discuss it at all? This is absolutely wrong, because the main work of any parliament in the world is to work on the budget. What about this budget, Adam Ivanovich? Well, look, we've been assured that these are very interesting projects, and state guarantees will be useful here, because this is a very attractive investment space project. If he was so attractive, he would probably find investors without State guarantees. He's probably not very attractive, and we're gonna have to pay for it with you. And as for the Euro, which has been said in passing, well, some Euro projects, I assure you that the Euro-2012 efforts of today's government will do for Ukraine what the Olympics in Athens did for Greece, which has destroyed Greece's entire state budget, caused huge losses in the Greek economy, and ultimately put the country on the verge of default. But unlike Greece, we are not yet members of the European Union, even associated, and as the current authorities behave, we probably will not soon be. From. That's why we're not going to be supported by the European Union, and that's going to be a disaster for the Ukrainian people. So I'd like to be more cost-effective not to throw bubbles into space and stupid commercial projects called Euro-2012, state billions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u72	And thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. I thought you were a patriot, and you're up against Euro 12. Please, Samuel Catherine, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u73	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. And I want to say that, unlike the previous speaker, I want to say that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support this bill, and I am proud that Ukraine is a space state. And nothing that in the village we have wills, and nothing that in the village we have statues, and nothing that is next, through one bill we will do everything. We will not do a faction of the Ukrainian Company in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but other factions have already set up branches to destroy finally our domestic machine-building, our combines. But what I want to say is that if we are able to be a space state, and we are recognized by such a state throughout the world, I think we can also make our own combine, and our own tractor, and we can build an agro-industrial complex in a way that will not be ashamed of us, and that we can feed the whole of Europe. And you don't have to go to Europe with your hand out and ask for taxes, please give us the money, because we don't have enough money, and we're going to drag the entire people of Ukraine into a credit hole, into a credit hole. So once again, I want to emphasize that we support this bill. But I'd like to be all patriots of our nation and we're going to be looking at one of the bills that's so beautifully called: to support domestic agriculture, we can't support it, because it puts a fat cross on the whole machine building, which means it's also on an agri-industrial complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u74	Thank you, Catherine Seed, for the speech on the next bill. We're talking about Brazil and space right now. But the next one is what you said. So let's count the performance. Please. Not anymore, because she made this bill. Grivkovsky refuses to speak. Greenewic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u75	Thank you. Greenewic, faction of the People's Party. Our faction supports such a question, of course. But I would like to point out, dear colleagues, that the development of the space sector requires a systematic approach. And systems are primarily designed for an effective governance structure, not for each year's reform, which leads to significant losses and reduction of highly qualified professionals. That's the first one. And the second. The main question is that the government should take priority in the development of the space sector itself. And the third. It's just the stability of funding, because it's in this area that we're going to be able to get into those innovative technologies that are going to be attractive and competitive in the world market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u76	Thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues! Everyone who spoke was right about one question or another, but I think we're all alone in strengthening the international prestige of our nation. And the fact that we're involved in an international space experiment is only for the benefit of our state. And I think we have, and we are obliged to adopt the Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2011, registration number 9189. [[on position clarification]] Please vote. [[11:52:02]] For 234 Thank you. The law is passed. We're looking at a draft Act on the approval of export duty rates for individual agricultural crops. Registration number 9239. The author of the bill is colleague Kaletnik. I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:52:39]] For-198 Offer supported. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Prepare Homutiniki Vitalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u77	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Your point is in the bill, I want a short story. You remember three months ago, export duties were voted on grain crops. At that time both the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee and the National Deputies objected, predicting negative consequences. Unfortunately, this has been the case: due to an expert duty on grain crops, Ukrainian grain exports have become uncompetitive compared with Russian, Kazakh, and Romanian grains. Since the introduction of the duty on grain exports, the volume of its exports has plummeted dramatically. In July-September, 3.3 million, while the previous marketing period produced 46 million tons, it was twice as much exported. External markets are filled with the grain of competitors, and it will be extremely difficult to fix this situation in the coming month. So that's why we need to get back to that question today, and I want your understanding and your support. Because it's the effect of these moments today that not only does it not give revenue to the budget -- it's actually stopped the grain market at all. And today, farmers who have grown and who need at least a direct price for grain to continue to do agricultural work have no opportunity to sell it. If export duties continue and continue, God forbid, the expansion of Ukraine's sunflower oil will not only give Russia the position of exporter number one, but also turn it into the raw material of the developed countries. As a result, small and medium-sized oil companies can be stopped and jobs reduced. And so when I look at the bill, I would like to ask for that kind of support for the transcript. Cancel rates of export export.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u78	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u79	Cancel the rates of the domestic export duty on wheat and the mixture of wheat under the relevant codes and maize introduced by the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and on the rates of export duty for certain types of cereals. Please support and vote him in the first and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u80	Yes, Vitaly Yuriovich, please wait a minute, we've got a colossal situation here. The bill was registered in the fourth, and the sixth, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, also registered a similar bill, although it would have to stand as an alternative. However, the second number is 9247. Please, two minutes, Carmazin. Please. 9247 on the same issue: amending certain legislation on the cancellation of export duties on cereals. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I want to clarify a bill registered by 5 numbers under 9247, and it was scheduled to be included and distributed to you today as an alternative under the Rules Act. Now I want to start over. Article 365 of the Criminal Code, "Exceeding power or service powers if they have caused severe consequences", is to be applied today to Prime Minister Azarov, Minister of Finance of Jaroshenko, and to each parliamentary majority MP who, as officials, have imposed duties on grain exports. Why and What Is the Effect? And the consequences are, you know, respectable. Since the beginning of this year, the export volumes of grains in Russia have been five times higher than the quantities of grains from Ukraine: 4.4 from Russia, 0.9 from Ukraine. In July, only 370,000 tons of grain were exported, 80 percent less than in June. So this is the result that you, honourable national deputies, broke the international convention that was ratified in this room after the trade in grain in 1995. That's why: because you also violated the Free Trade Agreement of April 15, 1994, on the creation of GUAM member states. And now. Dear Gregory Mikolaiovich! I respect you very much, although the bill you've proposed, where oil should be laid and so on, is completely nonsense, is the total destruction of the Ukrainian village. Because of this, I have a very simple offer. In the Tax Code, paragraph 2 of Chapter III should be deleted once. And the second. The grain and grain market law in Ukraine states: "For export of grain crops, export duty is not good." As an alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u82	Thank you. Hometicist Vitaly Yuriovich, head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The authors' idea of reducing export duties is certainly supported. Given that world markets are falling today, and this is directly reflected in domestic prices, i.e. in agricultural producers, it's reflected negatively, every day, every week the purchase prices of the agricultural producer are falling, so the very idea of the people's deputy Kaletnik, and Karmazin, it's supported. But the form in which the bill is presented, it doesn't respond, let's say, to standard-setting technology and logic. So to leave 3 percent, but not more than 2 euros per tonne, that's not a logical proposition, and the committee suggested the following: Today, 9 percent of wheat is used. Also, zero bets, i.e. cancellation of the export duty on corn, are now 12 percent. And leave, as it is, 14 percent of the time per barley by the end of this year. This is the first block of questions. The second block of issues that propose the introduction of new export duties on oil, rape and soybeans is also not supported by the committee. And the final edition of the committee, worked out, actually leaves two positions: the reduction to zero of the duty on wheat and corn. So once again, barley remains, soy, rape and oil -- we removed it from the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u84	Do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u85	The final working edition was adopted by the committee today and distributed in Parliament. And it is for this editorial that I propose to vote on the Supreme Council, both in the first and second readings to accept it as a whole, so that in a week or two the law will be signed and action will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u86	Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Please sign up. Yes, please, Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I would like to say very briefly that unfortunately, today, there is a logical conscious destruction of the agricultural sector of Ukraine by this government in charge of Azar. In particular, Minfin and Mine Economic Development have been involved. Look, there's been experiments over the village for two years. Last year, in fear of infuriating inflation, quotas were introduced, fearing that food would disappear in Ukraine. The result is a lot to talk about. But another result was more than 7 million grains of grain. This year, predicting 50 million tons of crops already in January, many experts said that civilian transparent grain exports from Ukraine should be allowed. No, it's not. The government didn't listen, they introduced the bribe. The result is what it is. When they predicted that the 2011-2012 marketing year would generate about 4 billion dollars in the budget, as a result of January-July, in total, about 30 million dollars, a penny. At the same time, NBA claims that less than 20 per cent of the currency has been lost in the agrarian sector than in the previous year. So what's being proposed today is, let's say, a temporary solution, that's a compromise on what happened. Today, in Ukraine, more than 50 million grains of their own, some 7 million of their own. We can safely export. And so, from that point of view, as an option, as an element of compromise proposed by both our committee and Mr. Homutinik, you can accept this bill. But once again, we're talking about zero bet for oil, soy and so forth, we're talking about keeping zero bet on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u88	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u89	corn, and as a compromise element, leave 14 percent on barley. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's work without interruptions, and then we'll start "Rizzne" for half an hour. No objections? Please, Kravchuk Vasil. From where? Please, the microphone. Get ready, Vashtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u91	Basil Krawczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Please tell me, is there one law that was passed by the faction of the Party of Regions, and then by five, has not been adopted 10 times? We were saying, "Don't accept this disgraceful law on customs" when we knew that it would be shameful for agriculture. Why is the Prime Minister why the Ministry of Finance doesn't like the village so much and doesn't like agriculture? Tell me where the common sense, where so - called professionals in the government today, when they enforce laws by means of an escape method. Didn't work, did it, when farmers protested when the government started storming when the Supreme Council started storming? It's to have 50 million grains today, record crops, using 25 to 30 million for their own needs, and others to lie and rot. Elevators are overcrowded, and Russia, in particular, is conquering all markets. I'm asking the government of Azarov to stop his program of destruction of agriculture. And they stopped preparing for the raid of the Ukrainian Blackland by destroying the agricultural sector. And 365 articles of the Criminal Procedure Code, it'll still work. Because 14 billion have suffered the loss of peasants because this shameful law on export duties has been passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u92	Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! Agrarians do not stop stressing that when we talk about the market economy in Ukraine, we have to ensure equality of rights in different fields of production. This has nothing to do with the village. Every time you look for moments to damage the agricultural sector. Let's take a look at what we've lost to what we've introduced? We lose markets, we lose money that goes into the budget. And we're losing opportunities to create new jobs. If we don't cancel the export duty today, it's going to continue. And what's interesting is that those who export, traders, grain traders, don't lose anything. They are simply underestimating the price of peasants and are losing the one who plows, who sows, who can barely make ends meet. And the proposal to import a bribe into oil, the sunflower is completely devoid of logic. Today, Ukraine has first place in the world in oil exports. For the first time, we're not working as Aboriginals, we're exporting the sunflower, we're exporting the final product. There are businesses, there are jobs. And we want to fold this market and make sure we retreat. Then how will he be conquered? And another aspect. And we're reducing the currency coming, and this is the day before that much is said about the threat of the financial crisis. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u94	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Yes, from the faction of the Chechetov Regional Party. From the Communists is Lechchenko. One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u95	Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues! You know, there are never sterile laws. The law is always the fruit of a certain compromise. But it would be the most foolish thing to do if the Government had grown 30 per cent of its grains this year and left the country without bread. Who knew then that Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers had a mind, and that would leave the country without bread? And thanks to the Government's efforts this year, 30 per cent more grains have been harvested, the bread country today, in the midst of the food crisis in the world, and we will be able to adopt legislation today, export grain and earn. That's the compromise! Gathering a large crop is once. The country is provided with bread — two. And let's get the grain out and make some extra grain, make three. That's why I'm proposing to uphold this law, here. The same was true of the Government's ability to use regulatory mechanisms to make bread available.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u96	Thank you. Vladimir Leschchenko. You're an ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u97	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Bill No. 9239 should be supported in the first reading and then taken into account the committee's proposals, because today we didn't give them away, we didn't see them. And to consider not only the cause of uncompetitiveness but also the fact that farmers do not take or buy grain at very low prices. But a reduction in the rate of export will not, in principle, solve the issue. The offer of Communists was as follows. Set a state monopoly on external economic activity. Establish a government order for agricultural producers with normal solid purchase prices. Then there will be real support from the state and the producers, and there will be a sharp increase in the production of quality agriculture, and costs will come to the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u98	Yes, please, Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u99	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The MP's Reform for the Future will certainly vote in favour of this bill. But to be honest, there must still be some responsibility in our government for the bills they bring to Parliament. To be honest, this is just the basis for our Supreme Council: that we are voting today against this bill and in violation of the international agreements that Ukraine has taken on itself, first. And secondly, we're violating certain articles of the Tax Code, and we really should not have done that today. But given that all Ukraine today, all Ukrainian farmers are simply desperate, and it is the responsibility of the Supreme Council today to correct the mistakes that the government is sadly making today. So, of course, we're going to vote in favour of this bill, but this is also a request to the professional committees: so that, well, it just doesn't happen, it's a shameful practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I think we should thank the famous lawyer Karmazin, who joined the agricultural field and encouraged adoption, in my opinion, of the right bill, of the right bill. Because I'd like you to pay attention to a report by a committee of profile who's offering to accept a different edition than the representatives have suggested. the subject of the legislative initiative. The profile committee is proposing that we approve export duty rates just for barley, all the others that existed before that on agriculture, take off. Here's what I'm going to say: about the adoption of the whole of the Act on the Approval of Fees of Exports for Certain Agricultural Species, 9239, by the Committee of the Homutinnik. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[12:13:03]] For 272 Thank you. The law is passed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes! A weed, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u101	Adam Ivanovich, can I ask you very much, please, whether you, or let Vitali Hometicnik say, while the export duty on barley is in effect? Action term, what number? Please tell me about the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u102	There's no term for action here. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u103	For the transcript, I want to say that we've left a valid barley quota of 23 euros, and it's also in legislation and it's prescribed: it's due by 1 January 2012. Thank you. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u104	Once again, my dear fellows, there is nothing to be done here, because we are making changes to the existing law, which is this norm. So it's just for clarification. To clarify, we hear about the amendment to the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex, registration number 8764. [[on favourable conditions for domestic machinery companies]] The author of the Prasololov bill and the co-reporter, Tkac, are asked to consider it in a simplified manner. Please be supportive. [[12:14:48]] For 202 A decision has been made. Please, Igor Prassolov. Get ready, Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u105	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The main purpose of the bill is to create a more favourable environment for domestic machinery companies, which would encourage the development of best agricultural machinery models to use the modern elemental framework of foreign production, with the subsequent establishment of its own Ukrainian high-tech elemental base. The draft Act proposes to improve the concept of “domestic technology and equipment for an agro-industrial complex”, “domestic machinery for an agro-industry complex”, as well as the specific features of State support for the purchase of equipment and equipment for an agro-industry complex. In addition, some of the provisions of the current Act on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agro-Industry Complex are limited to 2010 only. It is therefore proposed that these rules continue to apply for the following years. Dear colleagues, I request the adoption of Law 8764 as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u106	Roman Tkac, secretary of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! This bill has been considered in our Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, and the Committee decides on the following. The purpose of the bill is to create more favourable conditions for domestic machinery companies that would encourage the development of better agricultural machinery models using modern technology for foreign production and further repairing the production of their own high-tech agricultural technology in Ukraine. To activate an effective mechanism to accelerate the release of modern domestic competitive technology for Ukraine’s agri-industrial complex. Established by the law in force, the severe limitation of the level of domestic production in the value of technology significantly limits both the ability of machinery companies to develop modern technology, the equipment for an agro-industry complex, using the modern elementary base of foreign production, and the ability of agricultural producers to obtain modern, high-quality, affordable technology. In view of the fact that the need for State support and the promotion of the production of modern competitive agricultural technology is most necessary during the period of development of new technologies, the bill proposes to amend the existing law in part of improving the concept of "domestic technology" and "argro-industry equipment". In addition, the term of some of the rules in force in the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex is limited to 2010 and the bill proposes to continue to do so for years to come. Committee proposal: recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the prescribed draft in the first reading as a basis. Please support the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Paul Sulkowski, speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u109	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! It's very clear here, and I don't think there's anything to talk about, I just need to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u110	Thank you. The weaver.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u112	Jaroslav Suhi. A gallbladder in the joint.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! We have a chance today, and this is a chance that we should take advantage of: a chance to stop the destructive processes of agricultural machinery. We have a chance to rekindle the former glory of Ukrainian agricultural machinery. I'm drawing the attention of those people who in their own time had an attitude or remember how our Ukrainian, Soviet agricultural machinery was developing, which was the KS-6 complex, BM-6 of the Ternopil Combin Factory. GDRO's Forshridt, Jaroslav's rubber and diesel companies, metal from Russia, and so on. In any case, agricultural machinery requires cooperation and integration. The huge benefit of this bill is that it changes at the end of the day, and there is a time-consuming operation of state-level incentives for agricultural machinery in time. It is wise, right, and just. And one more thing. Perhaps someone missed, and I read this bill carefully: Article 14 foresees the proliferation of government incentives and lysing. The thing is, the farmer can't buy, I'm not talking about abroad, but our production, he needs a normal price or a normal loan from an agricultural worker. So in general, I think that this bill needs to be adopted both on the basis and in general. And one more thing. Please remember, there is such a term as hard work. Even if it's wrong we did it when we were stupidly buying the Johnniere, we have agricultural machinery, we have to put the work in for the assembly parts on the same Johndore or the other parts. Then we'll load our agricultural enterprises, then we'll be able to fill the budget and raise the gross domestic product. This bill needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u114	Thank you. Hejdajov gives Samuel the word. Behind her is Cowchuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u115	..very beautiful. The terms really need to be reviewed. But this law, I'm addressing all the construction workers, we're virtually destroying domestic agriculture. Because, look, in the first article of the third part, we're removing exactly what's happening is that in the value of our domestic agriculture, there should be: raw materials, materials, nodes, aggregates, parts and components of domestic production, more than 50 percent. So our adjacent businesses were working, so jobs were being created, because they had to be assembled, wages were going to be paid. Today, the main purpose of this law is to clear up this formula, 50 percent, and to dissipate the budget for everything else. So we're only going to do a collection of classes, jondies, Dutch different techniques, but we're not going to produce our own technology. I want to talk to everyone. I understand you have a material interest. You don't have to do this. And we can't be the gravestone of our country's agricultural construction. This law cannot be voted for. We don't have to destroy our state, we don't have to do this, we don't have to freeze the construction office with the machinery factories. And those who produce the kits will all stand up and not work. It's embarrassing for the cosmic state not to make its own combine. Shame on those who will vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u116	Cowchuck, please. Behind him is Chaplain, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u117	Basil Krawchuk, BUT faction, Fatherland. Katharina Seed! There is another hiding place, a standard where more than 50 percent of the physical weight of raw materials, materials, nodes, aggregates, details, and compendium of domestic production is eliminated. And in the definition of "domestic machinery for the agro-industry complex" deletes "the restrictions on the availability of at least 50 per cent of production for the cultivation, collection, storage and processing of agricultural products." So in the background of nice initiatives, of course, the initiative is nice, because it's going to be a good, quality import technique. In what way? They're bringing wheels from one country, from the other -- the entire harvester, they're gathering -- and the farmer gets quality technology. But what the rule eliminates by 50 percent is that there should be no more comprehensible domestic producers, is that for the peasants that I represent, it's convenient, but there's going to be a lot of unemployed people, because there's going to be a lot of stoppages that are going to be made for combines, tractors, and complex techniques. And then they'll come, and then they'll be in protest under the Supreme Council, and they'll be working factories that produce aggregates for agricultural technology. So I would like to support this bill in the first reading, but in the second, I would like to review and restore the 50% standard of complex aggregates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u118	Please, Caplienne, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u119	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You know, we were looking at this bill at the group meeting, and there was a double view of it. On the one hand, it seems to be a good idea to stimulate the development of rural machinery. But look what the bill is all about, just two things. The first is to cancel the actual terminology, which is the rule for the formation of the domestic machine-building market itself. Because the question is, how much percentage does it take to have a very complex Ukrainian manufacturer? And the second, the worst part is lysing. Well, look, what's lysing? Leasing is the same thing as paying for the technology that is used without the right to switch ownership. So actually this law is going to stimulate the foreign owner of this technique. So we, the MPs, will only support this bill in the first reading and on the basis. And we will insist that we refine it in the second reading and accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u120	Thank you. The question is closed. I'm voting on the proposal for a profile committee: to adopt, on the first reading, the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Construction Machines for the Agricultural Complex. Registration number 8764. [[12:27:28]] For 247 The bill was adopted as a basis. Work. We are considering: a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on increasing accountability for individual offences. [[re-read]] [[Registration number 7483]] Valérie Ananiyovich suggests that we consider the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:28:10]] For 219 Supported. Please, Bebelz, head of the committee, more loyally, the national deputy, because he is the subject of the legislative initiative. The committee is Shemchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u121	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, your opinion is proposed in Bill 7483 on amending the Code of Administrative Offences to increase responsibility for individual offences. The bill provides for amendments to the eight articles of the Code on Administrative Offences, which presuppose, first and foremost, the relationship of each member of our society and arms, and vice versa. Why do I say that? Today, there is a critical mass of weapons in the nation’s society. That weapon that our citizens have today can be used to arm a million armies. Judge for yourself. Firearms now in the hands of the citizens of 788,000. In addition to this number, 159 000 is a traumatic weapon. Out of this nearly a million, almost a million of these 85,000 different carbines. In addition, tens of thousands of units of protective equipment, the active defense of the special forces that our citizens now have. It's a means of forcing a car to stop, it's an armored vest, it's a cuff, it's a handcuff, it's an injury, it's a noise grenade, it's a world grenade, it can also cripple a person. That's why this bill is being submitted to your consideration. So I ask you to support this bill in the first reading, and with your help for second reading, I hope we'll come up with a pretty perfect bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u122	Thank you. Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk, head of the committee's committee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u123	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! At a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Legislative Security on 7 September 2011, a bill of amendment to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Strengthening Responsibility was submitted by the national deputy Behiz. The drafter proposes to strengthen the administrative responsibility for violations of the rules and procedures for dealing with the special measures of active defence aimed at human injury or the task of shock, by making appropriate changes to a number of articles of the Code of Administrative Violations. According to the general conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, a draft of the first reading was proposed to be rejected. At the same time, after examining the draft law in question, the committee notes that the responsibility for violations of the rules and procedures relating to the special means of active defence in the current legislation is not foreseen, and the committee supports the need for legislative changes. In view of the Committee's presentation, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the first reading of the draft Law amending administrative offences to increase the responsibility to accept as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u124	Thank you. Shall we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u125	Sign up, sign up. Please. Chechatov. Scybenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u126	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! In accordance with article 23 of the Code of Administrative Offences, administrative seduction is a measure of responsibility and is applied to the purpose of bringing up a person who has committed administrative offences in the spirit of compliance with the laws of Ukraine, respect for rules of coexistence, and the prevention of new offences by both the offender and others. The adoption of the draft Law amending the Code on Administrative Offences will prevent new offences and raise the level of legal culture of citizens, strengthen the rule of law and educate citizens in the spirit of unconditional and unrelenting compliance with the requirements of current legislation. [[on increasing accountability for individual offences]] I would like to say that when the bill is prepared by professionals, as was the case with Beváz Valérie Ananjevic, he was a professional in his field, then the bill is substantive, devoid of all politics. And for which I am not ashamed to vote. It was therefore desirable that as professionally as in this situation, other authors should prepare laws in areas where they were professionals and not politicians. Thank you. Please support me on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u127	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Scybenic. Baby, please. Grivkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u128	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, voters! I'd like to make an important message. Yesterday, a police car, starting with Parliament, the Supreme Council, and late in the evening, followed me and my car. When I was talking to people, the police blocked my car and tried to deliver it to the infirmary on purpose. Since they knew that I was a national deputy and that my car belonged to me on the right of personal property. These events, which took place yesterday during several hours of watching my car and trying to remove it, hindering my activity as an opposition national deputy, I associate with my speech at the Supreme Council on October 5, this year at parliamentary hearings on the subject of reforming internal affairs. In my speech at these parliamentary hearings, I have criticized the leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Minister Mohilov personally, who are responsible for unlawful violations of the constitutional rights of citizens, who are fully responsible for torture in militia stations, for killing Ukrainian citizens in militia stations, for obstructing the constitutional rights of citizens to protest against social anti-social government policies. Today I approached the government’s bed, where Minister Mogilov was sitting and asked him why police officers had interfered with my activities yesterday. In response, Minister Mohilov, like the present - day representatives of the majority, scoffed at and made it clear to me that these illegal acts would continue if I did not stop criticizing the authorities. That is why I am requesting President Yanukovic to release Minister Mogilov for violating the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u129	Question completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u130	Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u131	And the leadership of your faction is? Do they authorize you? Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich, on their behalf, I'd like you to speak. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Of course, a serious statement was made now. And I would like to say that to this law that's being passed, I will personally make amendments that will apply to the establishment of administrative responsibility not only for violating citizens' rules of storage, carrying or transporting prize-winning, firearms, cold or pneumatic weapons, but also for "special means of active defence and ammunition" and special units. Because we were convinced that people were suffering from kidney pain when they applied it. This disgraceful government of Azarov, led by the same Mogilite who can't do anything, two criminals couldn't disarm in Odessa, five hours shot, shot 7,000 rounds. Think about it! 7,000 rounds of ammunition fired at two criminals! The level of Makeevka is the maximum level that this minister could have been. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u133	Thank you, the discussion is over. Finished, discussion is complete. I would ask you not to give characteristics in the absence of those you're talking about. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Individual Offences. Registration number 7483. Please be supportive. [[12:38:08]] For 263 Thank you. The first reading was accepted. And, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask, let's take a decision on the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances that have led to the situation that took place around ZAT Indra. It's insulin. Registration number Order 9207. The Special Committee considered: Accepting the Committee’s proposals as a whole. Representatives of all factions are on this interim commission of inquiry. You know how relevant and sinister this question is. I'd like to ask, let's have all the friendly factions, because once again I'm stressing the representatives of each factions are in this TSC. Please be supportive. Let's vote, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u134	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u135	I reported, be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u136	I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u137	[[12:39:10]] For 287 Thank you. It's been decided. I'd like you to sign up for "Virgin." Yes, please, we've got an hour on Razna. Orestes Mutz. Get ready for Boluri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u138	Honorable colleagues, compatriots, thorns! Ukrainian President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, speaking in parliament on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of Independence, pointed out that the key task of the budget next year is to boost further economic growth and regional development. For my Ternopolska countrymen, these are important words, because the socio-economic problems of this country have not been solved in years. In addition, under the previous authorities, Ternopilska has experienced the full negative impact of regional financing. Today, we have no right to allow such a situation to happen again. So far, as a national deputy, I have made 21 proposals to the State Budget project for the following year, which relates to the construction of social buildings in the Ternopil region. At present, it is estimated that 18 million dollars will be allocated for the construction of the Ternopil district archives. This will be of vital importance to the preservation of a colossal historical heritage not only of local significance but also of national significance. At the same time, there are a number of important objects in the Ternopil region that also need immediate State support. Among them is the reconstruction of the Forest Torfzavode, the biological treatment facilities of the city of Lanivci, the water supply system of the city of Pochajeva, which contains one of our largest shrines, Pochayivska Lavra, long awaited the construction of the Cremenac Central District Hospital, which requires four important social institutions in the city of Zbaraz, 800 years of which will soon be marked at the state level. Clearly, we have a hard day’s work ahead of us — the restoration of a country that has been torn apart for 20 years. Now it's time to rebuild every area, every area, every village. Dear colleagues, the state doesn't start with Kiev. The country begins with a tent, a village, an area, an area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u139	I'd like to invite you to Antonina Boloura, the "BOUT" faction, "Fatherland." It will be followed by Eugene the Good.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u140	A few days from now, there will be a court decision against Julia Timoshenko. What will it be like? Not even out of law and justice, but out of that logic: this should be the closure of a criminal case. Because Timoshenko did not exceed her authority. That's the first charge. And in the course of the trial, this has been proven repeatedly. The most authoritative of all is the answer and testimony of the current minister of justice, Mikola Lavrinović, who acted within the limits of her authority. And Professor Andrushko, the head of the Department of Criminal Law in the Faculty of Criminal Law of the Kyiv National University of Shevchenka, in his noukovo-consultative conclusion, fully refuted the allegations of the existence of a crime in Timoshenko's actions, provided for in part three of the 365 articles of the Criminal Code as a result of the signing of the directives of 19 January 2009, established the legal nature of the directives and confirmed the legality of their issuance. With regard to the State's damage, the protection, by examining the report of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and Ukrattranshazu, was evidence of an increase in income and income in 2009, compared to 2008 and with the planned figures. It was from the provision of transit services and reasonable pricing that these profits were created. Once it was so clear that lawyers had been shown not to have any damages, the prosecution called them contrived, the scoundrel of falsified sums called them so-called, called them lost benefits. What are the lost benefits? This is the income or income that an economic activity entity might receive and that it has not received as a result of circumstances beyond its control if the amount of its projected income or income can be justified. Absurd, from the top to the bottom! In this way you can judge anyone who holds any responsible position and is not even responsible. In no legal state is that possible, the lawyers of Ukraine say, that's what the international law states. Mr. President, you claim not to be involved in a criminal case, in the trial of Julia Timoshenko. Please, please, Mr. President, step in, please, and let them show you the forgery they call a criminal case! This horror can be seen in 15 minutes, but from a protective point of view. Stop this abuse of the rule of law! Do not let such a court belittle you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u141	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u142	to humiliate and disgrace Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u143	Eugene Dobrajak passes the word to Vladimir Moisik, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". He will be followed by Vladimir Kaplienko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u144	Vladimir Moisik, judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in resignation, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! I want to tell you about how Ukrainian judges judge themselves. On September 29th of this year, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Vasil Onopenek, was called to office, and on September 30, as required by law, a new Plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine was appointed to elect the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. It didn't happen. Why do you think? The judge of the Kyiv District Administrative Court banned the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine from meeting at its meetings, and the second position was the decision of the court to prohibit judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine from participating in the sessions of the Plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Have you ever heard such a thing? But most of all, the miracle is that Mr. Mikola Pinchuk, a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission, filed a lawsuit with the Supreme Court of Ukraine. According to the law that we have adopted here, reformer, he is assigned to work with the Supreme Court in the Higher Qualifications Commission. And in the previous plenary of the court, it was absolutely not allowed to deal with judicial matters. So Judge Ogurtsov has forbidden the plenary to consider Mr. Pinchuck's application to the Constitutional Court, whether he has the right to participate in plenary meetings. We have reformed, we have reformed, we have reformed, we have reformed, we have reformed, we have reformed, we have reformed, we have reformed, we have reformed, and we have also banned the country council in Mankowka from a session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have banned the National Security Council and so forth. But that's not the problem. The judges will find out who ordered and arranged the raid at the Supreme Court of Ukraine. There are specific names, there are specific customers. So here, as Judge of the Supreme Court, I address them. In any position, including the headship of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, we must enter the white horse and the front door, not the black one. Shame on the organizers and performers of the judicial raid!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u145	I'd like to invite Vladimir Kaplienka, a group of Reforms for the Future. He will be followed by Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u146	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" urges the President of Ukraine to veto the adopted Law on Documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine. We're already doing this six times and we're finally getting a positive answer. Yes, the deputies of our faction are supporters of the introduction of biometric documents, because this is a requirement in the action plan for the liberalisation of the visa-free regime between Ukraine and the European Partnership. In the European Union, however, only documents for going abroad are spoken of. So in this case, it's only four documents -- it's a foreign passport, it's a diplomatic passport, it's a business passport and a driver's license or a crew member's. The adopted Law on Electronic Information Media should have all the documents certifying the person and his special status. For example, a social certificate, an insurance card, a disabled person, a driver’s license, a permanent residence permit, a temporary residence permit, a migrant card, a refugee’s license, and so on. So we're just offered to buy all these documents for our money. Now about the money that Ukrainians will have to put out of their own pockets. The minimum cost of electronic media documents for each Ukrainian will be about 1 thousand 600 dollars. To this day, I will remind you that all these services have been free. Colossal stress also rests on the state budget, from which 24 billion dollars will be spent on documenting and technological resupply, including for new equipment, to read electronic information. This is at a time when the budget for the next year for health care is only $5.2 billion. Most of these funds, both state and national wallets of Ukrainian citizens, will be adopted by all known commercial structure, which is a monopoly in Ukraine. The adopted law states that the amount of biometric data will be set by Kabmin. Although such things must be established by a special law. But it's not really defined what biometric data is going to be included. Where is the guarantee that the fingerprints of Ukrainians after the introduction of biometric documents will not appear in databases, such as the militia or in Petrovka, where they can be purchased for 45 bracelets? So the MP's faction, Reforms for the Future, stresses that the adopted law is absolutely not in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine or with the interests of our countrymen. Please consider my statement an official request to the Ministry of Justice and other relevant State bodies concerned with the scope of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u147	Please prepare an appropriate parliamentary address. I'd like to invite Andrew Pavlovsky to the "BOUT" faction. Victor Taran will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u148	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" - "The Fatherland." Respectable compatriots! What has been happening in our country lately? Despite addressing the leaders of the European Union, the leaders of the European countries, the promises of Viktor Yanukovitch finally to resolve the disgraceful issue of Ukrainian prisoners, I mean primarily the leaders of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka, by amending criminal and procedural legislation to humanize him, these promises of fulfillment in this room so far we do not see. So what is the purpose of those of Janukovich's environment, or perhaps his own, in persecuting the political opponents: July Timoshenko, who won the last presidential election in 2010, voted in favour of almost 12 million, half of Ukraine? So you judge not Julia Timoshenko, but you judge half of Ukraine, and you insult and humiliate her followers. What is the purpose of this? I think the goal of this is to try to exclude anything from the political life of the most popular leaders of the opposition, the opponents of Yanukovic: Julius Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka And we must all understand, including today’s authorities, that the presence in Ukraine of political prisoners, the arrest of opposition leaders — Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka — is a closure for Ukraine’s European perspective. The one who does this knowingly is torpedoing an association agreement with the European Union. Because there is an official statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that if there are prisoners in Ukraine, and above all Yuri Lucenka and Yulia Timoshenko, France will not ratify an association agreement with the European Union. So what are you doing, today's officials who have criminal universities?Oh, my God! "Do you fight" against the whole world?Oh, my God! Against the United States and against Russia?Oh, my God! Are you waiting for the "horns" to give you sanctions, block your offshore accounts in Cyprus, forbid you from going to European countries, the United States, other civilized countries? Is that what you want? In this room, most of them are dollar billionaires! Think, your offshore accounts, your billions abroad at risk! And there's more. We have to solve this question. I hope that common sense in the environment of Viktor Yanukovich will prevail over the criminal nature of this criminal oligaric power.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u149	I'd like to invite Victor Taran, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Julius Kovalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u150	Victor Taran, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland Party. Well, my colleagues were just speaking and talking about common sense, turning to today's authorities. You know, Vladimir Polochalo, whose bright soul has already flown away from us into distant worlds and is looking at us today, what is being done in his native Ukraine. One time Lord Polo told me one phrase that I could never forget, he said, "We're all making a very big mistake -- we're talking to them like they're normal people and it's our fault." And now that the MP of Paul was talking about that there is no European way forward for Ukraine in the case of the sentence of Timoshenko. And when Balura spoke here about the economic situation, about all these other completely logical things, the authorities don't hear them. The actions of power are completely instinctive. It's totally, well, ridiculous. To turn away from the world for this matter, from the 27 countries of the European Union, from the United States of America, that's when we have a very difficult situation -- it's, well, it's ridiculous. But the authorities do it, the authorities do it. I've been trying to understand the actions of power, and in this situation, maybe the only thing that helped me understand the actions of power is a whole series of books that describe the life of animals. It is the animal’s manuals that enable us to understand the actions of the authorities. I'm not saying anything. I'll be very specific. Well, for example, it's a story like this, isn't it? So, please tell me, how do monkeys, fast, fast ones that can't be caught? It's very simple. There's a narrow double, narrow, there's a banana and an ape, and it feels this banana, and it immediately puts its hand there, grabs it as much force as it can, and it won't. But the mind of a greedy monkey that needs to be let go is not enough. It's going to roll on, and it's going to be caught as well. And it seems to me that today's monkey old authority is really like this monkey that grabbed this banana, this criminal case against Julia Timoshenko, and it doesn't understand that we have to move away. He doesn't understand what we need to do. He doesn't understand that we have to let go. She doesn't understand that people with sticks will come and the monkey will be put there, they'll drive her where she wants to go, to some zoo. And that's where she belongs. And so when we're talking about Timoshenko's case, we're talking based on this manual, and unfortunately, the life of animals, because my personal prognosis is very inconvenient. I think Julia Timoshenko is 7 years old, and only people can get her and all of Ukraine out of these monkeys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u151	I invite Julia Kovalevsky, faction of the Party of the Regions. It will be followed by Victoria Demyanchuk, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, distinguished TV and radio audiences! Time is fast. It seems that we have recently taken an oath of loyalty to the people of Ukraine in this Hall, until soon the next parliamentary election. A year before they begin, we have to determine the law that will be followed by the national will. Dear colleagues, a comprehensive and systematic improvement in electoral legislation is one of the most important tasks of today, and many of us have worked hard on this issue. On Tuesday, we considered a whole series of drafts concerning the electoral process in our country. In each of them, of course, there was a lineage, but I believe that the most complete, meaningful and perfect law that could be adopted as a basis is a project developed by a working group from the initiative of the President of Ukraine. President Janukovic of Ukraine has repeatedly stressed that the strategic objective of the new electoral legislation is to form strong public authority, to stimulate the development of parliamentaryism, the party system, and real local self-government. Among the obvious advantages of the new bill are the standards that ensure competitiveness, transparency, and equality of rights of the subject that are being raised and chosen. When electoral commissions are formed, including through an independent candidate institution and through a free observer institution, the standards that guarantee democracy in Europe are ensured. A large part of the proposals based on this bill belong to the opposition political forces, the OSCE. This is to give candidates the opportunity to stand up in one-maned constituencies and to address issues of pre-election agitation and hidden political advertising. And giving equal status to all national observers, and much more. So I think some of the statements that opposition parties' proposals aren't on the project are political nonsense. Gentlemen, the shortcomings of a valid proportional system of parliamentary elections have been criticized both by the opposition forces and by the international community, and by our voters, who are complaining about the loss of the MP’s relationship with the electorate. Hence, the need to change the electoral system is determined by life itself. Today we need to find a model of the electoral system that will allow us to combine the personal responsibility of the MPs and activate the powerful potential of political parties. It is necessary to ensure that constructive policies are made available to Parliament, which will be quality in legislative work, not populism and pyar of themselves. People should know who they vote for, and politicians should have the courage to take full responsibility for what is happening in the country, not for the people as a whole, but for each individual voter, for his needs, for his problems and hopes. In the near future, Parliament will be introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u153	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u154	And I have no doubt that the new Electoral Law will only be adopted after a broad social debate and will ensure a free, democratic and transparent electoral process in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u155	I invite Victoria Demyanchuk, a faction of Communists. It will be followed by Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u156	Victoria Demyanchuk, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Kirovogradishte Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! From this rostrum I speak on behalf of the community of Kirovgrad and I want to bring to you their pain and anxiety caused by the actions of the local authorities at this difficult time. As we know, the problems in the present life of every ordinary Ukrainian are so great that they are no longer able to endure them. These are also disproportionate prices for food, medicines, looting utility tariffs, medical poverty, and education. But the local authorities of Kirovgrad don't worry about it, people's problems don't come to them, because they're busy with the one thing -- naming the streets. This is what the residents of the district center asked me to do. They are concerned about the baseless initiative of most of the deputies of the city council of Kirovograd regarding the change of the city’s streets, as it were, for the sake of historical justice. This is about the streets of Karl-Marcs, Vladarski and Lenin today. We're trying to figure out that the names of the Dwartz and the Great Perspective are somehow more native to us. The fashion of a return to historical justice may lead to the need to give the Turks Crimea and Odessa, for it was once the Turkish fortress Hadjibei and much more. There was no way to predict that the new authorities would blindly follow the President's "co-existence" policy. The initiators of naming evilly refer to new names as historical, forgetting that the Soviet period -- the history of our Fatherland and the modern street names are also historical. They do not think that this has been followed by a generation of people who have made a significant contribution to the formation and development of our country that they cannot so far steal. It seems that the city’s budget may have had the extra money to send for the needs of ordinary and disadvantaged citizens: repair roads, elevators, roofs, tariff cuts, and much more, vitally necessary. But this requires the minds of the deputies and their political will. And in general, what is the sick desire of some political forces to create such wild inconveniences? They do not need them at all, especially veterans, pensioners, and disabled persons. Is that how you decided to fill your budget? The Kirovgrads recommend that the initiators of the renaming build a new city, give it their name, the streets in which they call the names of their favorite heroes. Well, you heard the advice. In other places, let the new ostrich listen to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u157	I invite Yuri Carmazin, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". He will be followed by Rais Soroczynska-Kyrilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u158	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I'm authorized by the students to read a little bit of their address. They wrote and asked me to publish this, which is, "We're outraged by the attitude of power towards people. The promises of authority not only run counter to the actions of authority but also resemble outright ridicule of the people. On the one hand, Azarov, Janukovic claims that life has become more fun, in the economy of progress, VAT is rising, the crisis is overcrowding, the budget is falling, the deficit is taxing the plan, and on the other hand, the head of the Pension Fund tells Afghans and black people that the benefits that Azarov promised to pay back and raise are not budgeted. Tihypco says the same thing in the USSR's contributions, and all other ministers also claim that there is a complete lack of funding for the social needs of the people and thus an increase. When Mikola Janović stated that he had inconceivably accumulated a million dollars in his account, the question arose to the Prime Minister: would not the entire nation with such improvement of life be wiped out today? When we analyze pension reform, we don't see the need to officially work in our state today, counting the costs of the Pension Fund, because we're not going to live to retirement with that law. We don't see the point of opening our business either, because our business can't handle tax burdens. There's only one way to go: leave your country, or survive. And the last question: If the number of Ukrainians had been reduced earlier because of Stalin, who today should be rewarded for continuing the destruction of the Ukrainian nation in the days of Independence? We ask you, Mr. Carmazin, to bring our words to the ears of today's openly anti-Ukrainian, anti-national authorities, because if the authorities think we're weak, blind and foolish, it's not a national authority, it's not our authority. We have not chosen such authority. Students of the National Aviation University." And I would like to address you with this, and please consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the Attorney General of Ukraine and to the Government of Ukraine on behalf of and after addressing the landowners of Kharkushchi, which shows what corruption club today is in the largest district of Kharkiv district, Kharkivsky, where in violation of anti-corruption law such as Harmash, she was given permission before her internship. And what led to this? This has led to the writing of people on reception days today, who are also appointed when they want to. Of the 500 people who are enrolled, between 5 and 15 are accepted, all in all. And they say it's not even a strong right, it's a feudal one. We yearn for a European community, and we place the fate of the people in the hands of the local princes. And these people need to be vetted by the Attorney General's Office, the Department of Land Relations, what's going on in Kharkiv County today, and they're asking me to stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u159	Yuri Anatolyevich, let's sum it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u160	I'm done. I ask you to consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the Attorney General of Ukraine, to the government, and to the State Commission to change this corruption situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u161	Please make appropriate parliamentary inquiries. I invite Raisa Soroczynski-Kyrilenko, group of Reforms for the Future. It will be followed by Paul Soltus, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u162	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine! The MP Group on Reforms for the Future considers it necessary to draw the attention of the public and the authorities to recent studies published by the World Health Organization, according to which Ukraine is first among the world's countries in the use of alcohol by children. According to a survey of 200,000 fifth - tenth grade students, almost 40 percent of schoolchildren regularly drink alcohol. So in this disgraceful rating, we're even far ahead of Russia, which is 15th place, and that's because drinking alcohol is considered almost a national tradition. Of course, the problem of child alcoholism has not arisen today, it is the legitimate result of the lack of action of the central and local authorities in the fight against the spread of alcoholism and alcoholism, as well as the indulgence of alcoholics. The widespread advertising and availability of this product, sold anywhere, anyone and at any time, is the main factor in the spread of alcoholism. The MP's "Reforms for the Future are deeply concerned: according to scientific ideas, a dying nation is considered a nation that uses more than 9 liters of pure alcohol per capita per year. In Ukraine, according to official data, alcohol consumption is about 12, and unofficially, about 20 liters per capita per year. These facts show that the critical limit of alcohol consumption, at which the nation’s birth begins, has long been exceeded. And the disgraceful world priority of Ukraine's child alcoholism is that of confirmation. The facts mentioned by drug doctors are impressive. Over the past 10 years, the number of appeals to doctors about child alcoholism has tripled. More than 50 percent of children's poisoning in Ukraine is alcohol, and 16-year-old patients are in drug dispensers. A large proportion of children between 11 and 12 years of age know that alcoholic beverages are not from advertising, but from personal experience, about a sixth of them have experience in drinking. In view of the aforementioned parliamentary group Reforms for the Future, the government and parliament are urging the immediate consideration of this problem and the development of a system of measures to overcome alcoholism at the national level by approving it at the legislative level. Dear citizens, tomorrow Ukraine celebrates a professional festival — a lawyer’s day. Welcome, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u163	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u164	I wish them creative success in the field of affirmation of Ukraine as a legal one. On behalf of my colleague, who gave me the floor, a special welcome to the National Law Academy of Jaroslav Mudrogo in Kharkiv, headed by Rector Taci Vasil Jakovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u165	I invite Paul Soltus, faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Vadim Koleschenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u166	Dear Vladimir Nikolayevich, distinguished colleagues! I address you at the request of Lenin's working group of the State Enterprise Artemoul, where I, along with thousands of employees of the company, have made it a difficult way to develop mine occupation. The mine is currently under construction of a coal-delivery technology complex from a newly introduced horizon of 3,000 feet [190 m]. The construction readiness of the facility is 90 per cent, under the capital construction programme of 2011, Lenin mine, State-owned Artemoul enterprise, is planned to acquire 27.4 million bracelets, of which 10.3 million budget bracelets have been allocated by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. The completion of the construction of the 1-thousand-millimeter horizon will begin to produce 7.8 million tonnes of coal in K, increase production to 280 thousand tonnes in 2012 and to 330,000 tonnes in 2013, reduce the cost of coal production, achieve the financial balance of the enterprise, create 600 additional jobs and extend the operation of the enterprise for 25 years. Due to the difficult financial situation in the mine, the shuttle is unable to allocate 17 million bracelets of its own to the completion of the launch site. I request the Ministry of Energy and Coal to address positively the issue of the allocation of an additional 15 million dollars in the Lenin State Enterprise mine in 2011 for the acquisition of equipment and the decommissioning of the new horizon. I request that you consider the official request of the Ministry of Energy and the Coal Industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u167	I'd like to invite Wadim Kolesnick, faction of the Party of the Regions. He'll be followed by Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u168	The Party of the Regions faction, Vadim Koleschenko. Respectable voters! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! You can hear thunder thundering in Parliament, lightning flashing from the eyes of our remarkable opposition who are branding power in all sins, telling of terrible details and talking about how they struggle with benefits and privileges. Thanks to the work of the "Ukrainian Truth" online publication, I was surprised to learn that last year the Supreme Council purchased 14 "E"-class Toyota Camri machines for the needs of committees. Six cars were boarded and eight cars were boarded by our outstanding opposition and received a total of 1 million 600,000 bracelets. And one of the committees is headed by our excellent fighter, Mr. Vladimir Yavorivsky. But none of the opposition leaders have given up these machines, they're sure to cut into the future on beautiful expensive cars, but at that time, they're brandishing power about what power is spending somewhere. You know, this cynicism is mimecry and double standards, and unfortunately, they're in our room all the time. When the opposition here tells us that the Council of Europe will not accept Ukraine because we allegedly have some political prisoners, I tell you: in December-month this year Ukraine will sign an associated treaty on associate membership with the Council of Europe, and no prisoners, criminal prisoners, will interfere with this for one simple reason: that human rights are defined in Europe. And when we talk about human rights, and when we say that we will not be taken to the Council of Europe, Europe will not accept us, we must remember that last year the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe is the supreme governing body of this remarkable association of European countries - clearly stated in the periodic report. The quote, which I have already recalled many times, regrets why there are so many people in Ukraine who have a low, inadequate status in the Russian language. And the second quote is, "It is appropriate that this status of the Russian language be higher." Against this background, strange and persistent statements that people whose mother tongues are other than the State cannot have this right to attend schools in their mother tongue in order to train children in kindergartens in their mother tongue. If we do not comply with the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, this is the straight path to sanctions against Ukraine and non-admission to the Council of Europe. So I urge everyone to respect each other in our beloved country, and when you criticize someone, look at yourself. For when the opposition criticises, I say in Stanislav: 'I do not believe in the truthfulness of your impulses.".. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u169	I'd like to invite Oleg Lazko, a non-freaking man. He will be followed by Ulyan M. M., the faction "BUT is the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u170	Thank you. From this high parliamentary rostrum, I would like to raise those questions that concern millions of Ukrainian citizens. First. It's an antisocial government policy aimed at depriving people of the benefits they have today -- black people, disabled people, veterans, Afghans, children of war -- and in general 16 categories of citizens, thanks to the black people, the antisocial policies of this government that we have today on our heads and on our necks, our daughter Ukraine, this government is taking the last one from people. Thousands of rallies are taking place throughout the country against this shameful government policy. Last week I was in the Rockies, this week I was in Boguslav, and I'm going to all the meetings in various areas of Ukraine, where thousands of people are calling on the authorities to stop taking the last one. And when it comes to the economy of the state budget, given that these funds are not in the budget, they take away the last one from people, that's an absolute lie, because power has everything on it. The Prime Minister of Azarov lives on a state farm, he never holds a payment in his life for utility services, he doesn't know what it's like to count money, how to pay for gas, for light, for water, for medicines that need to be treated. A 75 - year - old woman approaches me in Boguslav, showing a bill of 1 thousand 300 dollars. She needs to be paid for her medicine, and she has a pension of 800 dollars. How can this person live? And there are millions of people around the country. So when the authorities tell you that there is no money for the benefits, start with yourself: Get out of the country’s homes. 150 million dollars in the budget next year to maintain government funds, compared to 50 million dollars for the treatment of Chernobyl, 60 million dollars for the purchase of youth housing and 1.5 billion dollars for the maintenance of the Presidential Office, and almost a billion dollars for the maintenance of the Supreme Council, half-darmoids and Tunisians who have not written a single law. And that's why we have to start with ourselves. I am addressing Prime Minister Azarov, I am addressing the officials, the leaders of the Supreme Council: leave the state houses, don't go to the state sanatorium, give it to the poor people who need it! And so the benefits, if not for the people, and give up yours! If you count everything you spend on power, that's 30 billion dollars on power, that's 20 billion dollars on militias that forbid people from protesting against power. This must be taken away and directed to the educational sector, to the medical sector, to the creation of jobs for young people, and to the implementation of laws on social security for citizens. And when you tell me you have to pull up your seatbelts, you pull up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u171	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u172	You're takin' it up really hard on the neck of the Ukrainian people. Because there are no crises that prevent you from increasing your wealth dozens of times because of the poverty of millions of Ukrainian citizens. I say shame to this authority! I urge the Ukrainian society to exercise this authority, the time to stop its rule, and the power in Ukraine must be what works for people, not for itself! Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u173	Thank you. I'd like to invite Uljana Mistpane. She will be followed by Dmitri Vitwicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u174	Dear voters, honourable chairman and fellow national MPs! Let me remind you that October 1st is the International Day of the Elderly and the Day of the Veterans. This shows deep respect for the oldest members of the population. In Ukraine, thanks and wishes for the best are also traditionally heard on that day. This year at both the central and the local levels were also welcomed, and that is a good thing. As always, I did it, and I went down the drain. My constituency in the Kyiv region, right here my predecessor Lazko said that he was there: both Rokytno, and Mironovka, and Boguslavsky, and the Kagarlicki district. The pensioners have been rallying for exactly a month. The circuit courts are crawling, moaning, and wheelchairing for elderly people to express themselves painfully. They were insulted by the state, reducing the amount of pensions they had chosen in the courts. In theory, the State loves, welcomes, and, in fact, saves, for them, the weak and the weak. It's unfair, it's unfair and, in the end, it's immoral. This means that such actions must be held accountable. I was forced to step out of this rostrum around just the government's guarantee bill of the state regarding the enforcement of court decisions that effectively eliminate the 16 categories of social pay. [[No. 9127]] Including those involved in fighting in Afghanistan, children of war, the Chernobylites. He was accepted in the first reading as a matter of urgency. And only thanks to the active activities of opposition and the public is the second reading postponed. On September 20, black people and Afghans attended a rally before the Supreme Council. These are people who can be referred to as young retirees by age. And they won at least a little, but they won. Signed memorandum by the government, where pensions are projected to rise in 2012. What about those old and infirm who had not reached the capital in health, had not been heard by the authorities, had not broken fences, and had not beaten windows in the Supreme Council? Answer: Everything remains unchanged. The proof of this is the beginning of October's pension payments on the same scale as September's. The decisions of the courts are not being implemented. The pensioners believe that this is their revenge on the government for voting for Julia Volodymyrovna in the presidential election. And they say, "What happens next month, next year?" And there's no explanation. In the memorandum, the leaders of public organizations committed themselves to carrying out public service work among the ploughmen and to relieve the tension in society. But is this going to be long? And the only hope now for the Constitutional Court, as Tigipko Sergey Leonidovich stressed today. Since July 8, a dead cargo has been placed on a constitutional application.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u175	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u176	It's prepared by the deputies from the opposition. The reaction has been gone for three months. I am very much asking that my speech today be a parliamentary request to the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Social Policy and the Minister of Justice. Personally, I want to wish older ones health and patience, and well - being. And I really want it to not work out as the government thinks, and people hear it long ago, saying, "Lord of the House, ladies, that's his word of warmth." Thank you all for your attention. And I hope that the government will hear our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u177	I'd like to invite Dmitri Vetwicki. He will be followed by Vitaly Terentiyovich Korge. Dear colleagues, it is a great request to comply with the rules. We have a few deputies left. It'll be wrong if they don't make it because they're all four minutes away. Now I'm giving exactly what the law stipulates and I'm interrupting everyone because there's going to be problems. Please, Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u178	Dmitri Vetwicki, True Political Party. I want to raise today, distinguished colleagues, an issue that I have not been able to ask the Government. This issue concerns the payment of subsidies to our citizens. We have had a pension reform, the results of which are better known to pensioners, the elderly, who are fully self-sufficient. In my view, the pension reform that people expected their lives to improve, but they did not get the main question when, to the extent that the minimum pension would be increased. None of us: neither the Ukrainian people's deputies nor the Prime Minister, nor the Government nor the President can give an answer on how to live on a minimum pension of less than 800 bracelets to date. Now in the fall, people are going to be forced to pay for apartments, housing services, gas, electricity at new tariffs, and people are afraid of this situation. How do I see the problem of paying the grant? Some people have gone out, received them, and this is today, a tariff subsidy, precisely a buffer that helps people to make ends meet. But there is also the problem that this is about pensioners. People who are over 70 years of age are tired, have worked their whole lives, do not have a high level of education, legal education, and do not really have the strength to just walk through the cabinets, collect all the necessary certificates precisely to form a grant. In my view, the Government has an obligation to help people receive automatic subsidies. Because there are other people in the country who don't know they're being subsidized. So they don't get them. Although we are obliged, the State has an obligation to pay them. I therefore propose these statements, which have already been made by the Government, to implement and make payments to our citizens automatically. It is for the public authorities to deal with the matter. There were all people in electronic form who had been granted grants and paid them in full. The Deputy Prime Minister of the Government said today that 2.9 billion grivens were planned for the grant. That is, there is money in the budget and the Government has an obligation to ensure that every grantor receives it automatically from the Government. I don't stand in line, I don't waste my time, and I don't study government laws and regulations that often change, and people don't know that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u179	I'd like to invite Korz Vitali Terentiyovich, the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Oleg Nadosh, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u180	Vitaly Corge, "BUT is the Fatherland." As I prepared for this talk, I came across a poem by Dmitri Pavlick, who said it all in my best interests. So listen up, Ukrainians! "Court. Before the court hall, it's like a relationship. Out of my hundred caught in Luch, It's Julia. And there's a eyebrow in the judge's hand. He's jumping like a stick on a thorn, And there goes the silence of the grave. And then Julia stood up and said, "Glory to Ukraine!" And the soldiers of the company rose in the hall, "Heroam of glory!".. Shadow Prosecutors They were scattered, and the lightning was cool. Shining in the height of heaven, And it became clear that this was not judgment, but revenge! It's revenge for that wife being ready. The Presidential Elections to Go And win the second time! Oh, be healthy. A brave woman with the heart of an orphan, And let your tongue annoy you. She's as state and invincible as you are! A cry for Chrystika. In the law of thieves. It's screaming at the states of our storm. Offshores screaming, banking offices screaming, Screaming with three paws, Close eyes, no, no eyes, There's only a hole in the throat of the creature. That scream is in the chestnut branch, The houses are deaf, the sidewalks are deaf. The storks of the Doña, the native moscals, They say, "Go, Julia, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, On the pomegranates!" A shiver in the window glass, And to hear the clouds tremble over the world, And beneath the earth, the dead are rotten. Kristatika’s Cry: The Fifth Column He wants the whole world to cry out, I think Julie's giving her hand. Damn America, Europe And "guys" are not happy. Hello! A famous whore screamed for a year: "Lock the lady in white, lock her up!" And now at Schuster's through the crying, she said, "I would smother that general, I'm sorry I told you to put Julia in a cage." And the President's innocent hands, The purest washes like Pilate. And the lord of the judge, the law with the whip of the coven, A faceless, as if without arrows a dial, He's already writing a verdict: "Take the white board off the defendant! Let him die of crucifixion! Let the black ravens of sorrow tear out of her heart! Don't let it come from behind bars!" And there are intellectuals against everyone, who called the nation a sword, And all their sufferings were sung, and stoned a woman in white, And delivered her to the court with nothing. Oh, geniuses marked with malice a strange selfish mind, You didn't fight the cholera, the plague, Because you're on your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u181	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u182	And I come out of hell, out of court, where my blood is burned to the ground, And I will not go home. I will stand there. near the prison, like a bird without wings. We shall wait for salvation. standing on the deathbed, Until July passes by me. To be free in a thorn's wreath.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u183	Thank you. I invite Oleg Nadosha, faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u184	President-in-chief, honourable national deputies, is known to be President of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of the Ministry of Industrial Policy of Ukraine at the State Agency for the Administration of State Corporate Rights and Property on 13 April 2011. In accordance with the President’s decree approving the state agency of Ukraine’s administration of state corporate rights, the Agency’s main tasks are to implement state policy in the area of public property management, including corporate rights of the State. That is, a newly created agency, before its name is changed, must manage and develop public property effectively and otherwise. Instead, according to data from the Ukrainian Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Industrial Policy has ineffectively used 16 million dollars, or almost half of the total budget used, from the 2007-2010 program of support for the production of agrotechnics. During the program, budget spending was only 18.2 percent of the projected expenditure. Only one of the three programming directions was funded: research and development. In addition, according to the Accounting Gender, Minprompolitics failed to ensure that these studies were properly carried out. The status of implementation of the results of these tasks is unsatisfactory. Two other policy directions -- compensation for bank loans for technical purchases and improvement of the regulatory framework for machine building -- were not financed at all. In addition to what has been noted, the results of the audit conducted by the Court of Auditors have shown that the activity of the Ministry of Industrial Policy of Ukraine in the field of aviation development during the past year has been inconsistent and insufficient. Nearly two thirds of the funds received have been ineffectively used by the Ministry and individual airlines in violation of the requirements of current legislation. The goal of the National Integrated Aviation Development Programme for Ukraine was not achieved, and in 2010 only two series of aircraft were created. Today, the legal framework to ensure the steady development of the Ukrainian industry is imperfect and insufficient. In turn, the State Agency, as a professional state institution, does not initiate changes to the current legislation of Ukraine, which would contribute to the development of the Ukrainian industry, does not engage in its direct function – management, state-owned enterprises. So I would like to present my statement as a request to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Klavov Andrija Petrovich in order to verify and provide me with clear data on the size and purpose of the funds received earlier. In addition, provide policy papers on the State Agency’s 2011 - 2012 work plans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u185	Please make appropriate parliamentary inquiries. I invite Vladimir Yavorowski to the floor. He will be followed by Yuri Gnatkevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u186	Good afternoon, Ukraine! Yavorowski, Fatherland. I haven't been able to ask Minister Tobacco today. And the question would be this: Mr. Tobacco, would you like to take to your secretary the student of Kiev-Magilian Academy of Darochka? She'd give you flowers every morning. There's an unattractive person here -- it's not mine, it's said by the Chief of the Supreme Council -- here he told us that Ukraine is not admitted to the European Union because the Committee on Culture and Spirituality has allocated a car, by the way, which was in an accident, and I'm not on it at all. So let the infatuated one calm down. My speech will probably be unconventional, and for some it will likely be unexpected. It's our poor law enforcement, somehow everyone's attacking it! Well, you know, I wanted to protect them a little bit. You know, I feel like they're working on a commission, and maybe even with the opposition, because no one works on us as hard as they do. Well, we have to think about this: let's find out today what, apart from what I said from the rostrum here today, how many dairies and residences in our President, it turns out that seven million more have been set aside in the forest to pave pave paved roads for Janukovic to go hunting. I'm not saying that all of Ukraine is now packed with helicopter ranges. Well, everything they don't do, well, I don't know, applauding wants opposition, first of all, although this, of course, I understand, reflects on the common people. The middle class was destroyed. This is what they promised in the elections! Everything we knew was promised. People now understand perfectly, and I think they will end up with a post-colonial period in Ukrainian minds when they come to power. And they are more likely to vote for such mad liars who have come to power today. Not in Greece, you'll never take them. Whatever they do, look, it would seem, today Europe is stretching its hands to Ukraine. No, they were suing Julia Timoshenko, who is accused of being guilty of necessarily summer after spring. Well, it's Julia Timoshenko's fault that the wind isn't there and that sort of thing. It's absolutely clear that all of this is going to spread out and so forth, and all of this is going to hit them. That's why we have beautiful boys today. Look, they're about to mess up their Ministry of Finance. And they say they're going to find it, because the Security Service is going to find something, and they're all going to find it. Don't throw it away, it's all perfect. They're building themselves a new airport in Donetsk. Especially for yourself at the expense of the state, by the way. The head of government gives his son money for business. Well done! I'll give you guys a round of applause! Come on, you've got a little more work to do, because you have very little time left.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u187	I'd like to invite Yuri Gnatkiewich, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Alla Alexandrowski, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u188	Dear Ukrainians, impressed by the poem by my friend Vitaly Corge, I'm going to tell you a little bit about our tent town. For the third month, Julius Volodymyrna has been in prison. But our faction, all as one, did not leave her in distress. We morally support her in court. We're detecting a violation on the part of Judge Kiriev. We're informing the residents of the tent town next to the court about what's going on in court. We're taking people in, and they're coming into our Chamber of Deputies. We've been saving all 24 hours. And today, for example, I'm going to go make a shift at night, and I like to make a stop at night. Because I can't hear this "President of the General Military Union of Colonel Kalashnikov" who is all over Krestatik, hearing the Presidential Houses, shouting, "Julu na na pari!" The government supports it, because it's said that there are about a thousand turns of sneezes that live in the Tolstoy Square and around here, that children don't sleep, that no one can sleep. You know, out of love for Kalashnikov, our people in the tent town have made a mess. They didn't write that it was Kalashtnik's, but very similar to Kalashnikov's husband, and it says, "Member of the All-Ukrainian Society of Complete Idiots." By the way, there are a lot of layers on today's party and government. I invite all people to just come and look in the middle of the day, you laugh, and you look at the wisdom of our people at all. By the way, there's another interesting stand like this, and underneath that stand, someone put up a pair of wallpapers and wrote, "And this is the trial? Don't make fun of my slippers!".. That's right, I guess. I also like to wait at night because I drive to my village near Squire and listen and talk to people. And what people are talking about, not just people, but sparrows and chickens in my village are talking about Julia being judged for removing her from the field, from the political field. And they're also saying that they're trying to get revenge for everything that she called Midan, that she protected Midan, that she took away a few factories and factories that were stolen from the people. And you know what people say about potatoes today? Ivan Grigorovich, our leader, is an agrarian. A lot of potatoes came out, and I got it, and I got it. Last year it was, you know, six bracelets, and now it's 85 cents, and it's a complete disaster for people. People are also afraid that they will soon start selling land from the new year. There are people who want to fix houses, teach grandchildren, treat them. And they might sell the land. Who's gonna buy it? And it's bought by those who don't know the villages, but only bags of money have, "and nothing but the Russian language," they won't bring it there, and they won't bring it to their managers. And the village will be turned into dunes, and the people will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u189	Thank you. I'd like to invite Alla Alexandrowski, a faction of Communists. And in conclusion, at the faction's offer, Sergey Hrapov, the Communist faction, and Stanislaw Arzvitin will finish in a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u190	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! As the leader of the Inter-Parliamentary Liaison Group with the Syrian Arab Republic, I wish to draw your attention to the situation surrounding that State. It can be concluded from the information provided to trusted citizens by some foreign media that Syria is being subjected to an organized external campaign to discredit its authorities, to corrupt Syrian society, to suppress psychosis in general in the Middle East region. Moreover, the statement made by some of the Western world's top officials points to the authors of this cynical and world-threatening scenario. The media's concern about the preservation of rights, freedoms and democracy in Syria is not more than a fraudulent reception, but a smoke screen that conceals the true intentions of undermining Syria's authority in the international arena. This is also the result of sanctions that have been unjustifiably imposed on that State. As a result of all these cynical actions, the people of Syria suffer. I had the opportunity to see this in person, since I had studied the situation in Syria in the course of a few days, along with representatives of the Ukrainian media. We have visited several cities, including those in which, according to information from foreign media, there is almost civil war. We have freely communicated with people of various ages and religions, different rank, ordinary Syrians, and representatives of power. Syria is living a peaceful life, and the country is on the verge of major reforms in the government system. Elections to local councils will soon be held, elections to the Syrian Parliament will be held early next year, electoral legislation and the political system will be reformed. President Assad is initiating the adoption of a new Constitution, which should give these reforms a systemic character, as a basis for the further democratization of the country. In a country that is the cradle of the world’s largest religion, including Christianity, there are no minor signs of inter-confidential tensions. Syria is the heart of the Arab world, everyone knows that. Syria is, to some extent, a guarantee of peace and tranquillity in this important region for all of us. I have had the opportunity to see the unity of the people of Syria, to live peacefully and to maintain a friendly relationship with the world on the basis of mutual respect, recognition of the right of peoples to sovereignty and independence. Extremism and terrorism are weapons now being directed outside against the heart of the Arab world, against Syria and its peaceful people. Provoking exits, terrorist acts that are the victims of civilian and law enforcement bodies, must be condemned by the international community. I condemn the provocation against Syria as an instrument of international pressure against that State. I call upon all of us to express solidarity with the people of Syria, and from this high rostrum I express my support for the people of Syria for their desire for peace, progress and democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u191	If you'll excuse me, Sergey Harpova, a minute, please. Stanislaw Arzewittin will finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u192	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! The day of decent work is celebrated worldwide on 7 October. Today, one third of Ukrainians work under conditions that do not meet the legal standards. As a result, 4-5 workers die every day at work, and 15,000 become disabled every year. There has been a gross violation in labour relations, and there are negative consequences for wage tensions. According to a study by Goskomstat Ukraine, 25 per cent of the population of Ukraine currently receive income below the official subsistence minimum. The poor included educated and skilled and full-time workers, budget institutions and organizations, education, culture, science, health, social workers, public servants and engineers. Because of their low wages and pensions, they are unable to feed their families and provide them with the necessary food. This is the main outcome of the twentieth anniversary of Ukraine's dependence on international financial organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u193	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u194	from international financial organizations and own capitalists. Today, I call on all workers to join forces with Communists against the yoke of capital. Never will the capitalist take care of the workers. Only in a socialist society can a simple person, with decent work and pay, develop as a fully developed person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u195	I would like to invite you, Mr. Stanislaw Arjevetin, to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u196	Dear Ukrainians! Dear Cossacks! A few days later, our country will celebrate the Day of Ukrainian Cossacks. What is the national news before this festival? Of course, they're good and bad. Among the bad news is that the administration of today's Cabinet of Ministers has canceled the National Concept for the Development of a National Cultural Program of Ukrainian Cossacks, which has been working on for almost five years. Another news: The first reading adopted a bill on the order of wearing uniforms, and if accepted, all hunters, fishermen, tourists, of course, Cossacks, will be fined for camouflage from 1 000 to 8 and a half thousand dollars. Now the childish, military-sportsive, patriotic Sokol game at the command of the Minosveti will be held like the communist "Glasses". [["The Jura."]] Among the good news: The Cabinet of Ministers decrees the Cabinet of Ministers' Coordination Council on the Development of Ukrainian Cossacks. The other one. Today, a bill on Cossack organizations is being considered in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u197	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u198	And I propose to our Cossacks brothers, during the celebrations, you will also be visited by national MPs: remind them of the fate of this Cossack bill. With the celebration of you, Cossacks-Brothers! Glory to Ukraine! Thank the Ukrainian Cossack!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-07-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, the hour is ending for the question of "Crazy." I would like to remind you that the following week the national deputies are working on committees, commissions, factions and groups. There will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council on October 17 at 11 p.m. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, October 18, at 10 a.m. I would like to welcome our colleagues, both in Parliament and in colleges and all over Ukraine, who work as lawyers to the upcoming Jurist Day. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck!
