ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Invite the deputies to the session room and turn on the "Council" system. [[16:00:48]] They registered cards in the session hall, and I emphasize 309 national deputies. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on, we are continuing to consider the bills set out in the schedule for today. It is now the turn of the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services. [[on the sale of medical supplies and medical supplies in rural areas]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Lazko. He's a reporter. Who's gonna be on the committee? () [[B in m in s a l in]] Mikhailo Chechetov. I don't know anything. [[B in m in s a l in]] I pay attention to a violent, incomprehensible reaction, respected colleagues. That's why I'm putting the motion to a vote, I understand, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[16:02:07]] For 180. Decision taken. Again, the reporter is Oleg Lazko. Michael Chechetov will be speaking from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear fellow citizens! You're a bill. The bill is designed to try to reduce the cost of drugs sold in rural areas for the rural population. Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services, Feldsherski, Field Office and Hospitals, which operate in rural areas, are not included in the list of those who should not apply accounting and accounting registers. This leads to an unnecessary complication in the implementation of drugs by these institutions and improves the supply of drugs and leads to a deterioration in the access conditions for people living in rural areas, especially elderly and single. In this context, it is proposed to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Public Nutrition and Services that, when selling medical supplies and medical supplies through field, field and obstetric centres, rural hospitals and outpatients on the basis of contracts with operators who have a licence, leave will be granted to a person with medical education in rural areas where there are no pharmacy facilities that are not required to apply accounting transactions and accounting books. The adoption of this law will reduce prices for medical supplies, medicines, and medicine in rural areas. Given the limited costs of the rural population, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u3	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u4	Mr. Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable National Deputies, Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at the meeting on 16.02.2011, discussed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services on the Sale of Medical Devices and Medical Devices through Feldscherian, Field-Ackshering Points, Rural Hospitals and Ambularies to Persons residing in the Rural Region, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine Lazko. The purpose of the bill is to settle the issue of ensuring that medicines can be implemented in villages and that normal conditions can be created to ensure that those living in rural areas are provided with a constitutional capacity to obtain medicines at the expense of reduction. Restrictions. After considering the bill, the members of the committee noted that the draft law was prepared to take into account the requirements of the Tax Code and with the aim of legally establishing a permit for the introduction of retail trade by medical means, the Feldscherian, the Field-Ackshering Points, the rural district hospitals and the infirmary without the use of accounting registers and supported it. In view of the above, the members of the committee decided: the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services, to submit to the Supreme Council for consideration and to propose to support this law. [[on the sale of medical supplies and medical supplies through field and field obstetrics, rural district hospitals and outpatients in rural areas]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u5	Yes. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Radovec, the MP's group "Reforms for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u6	Please pass the word to the colleague of Sorochini’s Paradise Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u7	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u8	Dear colleagues! The Reforms for the Future Group expresses its position on supporting Bill 7548 to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services. Taking into account that in rural areas where the farm and the rural hospitals live a deep retirement age of the population, the disabled and the very elderly, we have the right to, and I think it's absolutely appropriate to let a health care worker who has medical education do so at field schools and in rural hospitals. It is extremely difficult for these people to move to large district hospitals in nearby cities or villages. The Reforms for the Future Group will support Bill 7548 and ask the National Deputies to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u9	National Deputy Soloshenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u10	Dear colleagues! The issues raised by this bill are contrary to existing legislation, because it is under the current law that these matters fall within the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers. In this regard, I propose that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, when we consider a bill with a reduced procedure, there is no summary and no final statement by the rapporteur. No one insists on the factions that didn't act? [[B in m in s a l in]] Regrettably, the Rules are not provided for. Dear National Deputies! Once again, I remind you that the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office is of the same mind, namely, that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I'll bet on the vote. Attention, please. - a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the application of accountancy registers in the field of trade, public nutrition and services. [[on the sale of medical supplies and medical supplies in rural areas]] [[Registration number 7548]] Please vote. [[16:09:49]] For-54 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 3, "BUT – Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 3, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, "The People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 3. There's no motive. There's no such thing! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you not to scream, well, please. I'm going as per the Rules. What are you yelling at? Please. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act on the exemption from payment of mandatory services of motor vehicles is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 7465]] The rapporteur is National Deputy Kamchatny. And from the committee, who will be speaking? Mironenko? The suggestion was to consider the matter in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[16:10:59]] For 213 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" group, being consistent in the introduction of its bills today, is taking a new initiative to remove some disagreements from article 36 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act and thus improve the situation of aid to those who need it, i.e. war veterans, to disabled people, to other categories of the population. The point is, in article 36 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act, there are two components, i.e. the cost of a ticket, the cost of driving, in its own words, as well as the cost and cost of the mandatory services of the passenger stations. If we understand the cost of driving, the cost of driving is free of charge, relative to mandatory bus sales, such as sales of tickets, use of waiting rooms, bus schedule information, the possibility of using public restrooms, etc., this article does not mention it. In many cases, then, there is a situation where when a ticket is made to pass to the premium categories, they require money for the provision of car services. Therefore, considering that the cost of the ticket must include the cost of compulsory car services, we suggest that this difference be resolved and that it be recorded in article 36 that the benefit category is also exempt from the cost of car services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u13	From the committee, Mikhailo Ivanovich Mironenko, please head of the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Transport and Communications discussed the draft Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Dimkovich and Kamchatny. [[on the exemption from compulsory services of motor vehicles]] As noted in the explanatory note, the bill aims to regulate the issue of cancelling the Automobile Assembly when it comes to free transportation of general use of war veterans and other benefits categories of citizens. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of January 25, notes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. By letter of 26 January 2011, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine reported that the bill was not supported and proposed to be rejected. The government believes that the bill's provision of additional benefits through the release of passengers who, according to legislation, have the right to travel by car free of payment from a car assembly without determining the sources of compensation for car owners will make the situation worse in the field of road transport and will result in the closure of a large number of cars, especially in rural areas. Taking into account the above-mentioned and outcome of the discussions at the meeting on February 16, 2011, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law to be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion in case of need. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. People's Deputy Kilincarov, Communist faction. And then there's Stone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. In general, I do not understand the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. I think a lot of people haven't been to the train station in a long time. And the list of services that these enterprises have today, which are private, by the way, to date, are totally inconsistent with the tariffs they set for carriers. In fact, this has become some kind of mafia structure that receives a certain wage from transporters. Therefore, I think that this issue needs to be addressed not only with respect to veterans, but also in principle with regard to the people who receive services at these train stations, in fact, to bring them into some harmony. I believe that this draft law can be supported, and the Communist faction will vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u17	National MP Kamchatny Valerius, Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u18	Please give my word to my colleague Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u19	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! On behalf of the MP's Reform Group for the Future, I would like to stress that this bill is really something that we are simply obliged to accept. Because failures, when previous social laws were enacted, simply did not account for the fact that the same tickets, the same compulsory services, were once again recalled, did not involve any commercial services, namely the mandatory services of the bus station, that they were also separate from the accounting tape. In this regard, when the law was passed, they simply forgot to write it down. In case. With regard to the statement that was made about the position of the Cabinet of Ministers, it is really very sad that in this case, not the basic ideology that is in the government of Ukraine has played a role, but the position of one of the clerics who is looking for a completely formal, I think, component. In fact, talking about what there is to spend on highways is, at least, designed for most highways, coming up for absolutely humane reasons, first. Secondly, from dividing the cost of the ticket and the cost of service of the mandatory service of the car, even purely in accounting, very problematic, until the last time of these services from veterans, from other people who have the right to free travel has not been taken off. But in recent times, when the fight to violate financial discipline in the tax system has intensified, sadly, instead of fighting really very serious thieves, the search for such trifles and flies is very common. By adopting this bill, we don't do any financial damage to anyone, we're just allowing them to provide the same services that are being provided today and to express themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u21	Complete your thinking. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u22	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u23	Valery Baranov, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! There is no doubt that it is necessary to deal seriously with and assist veterans, and there may even be additional benefits. But we have no right to deceive people, as we have always done in the last 20 years. You probably know that half the benefits are not being funded by the State today, which is why the State has destroyed public transportation in all the cities of our country and has attached a hand to the collapse of tram and trolleybus offices in major cities. Therefore, if we introduce an additional benefit, which is an additional benefit, someone has to compensate, and someone has to pay for it. The law must therefore be enacted, but only after the source of these additional costs from the State budget has been indicated.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u25	Thank you. Nobody insists anymore? Landik? Please. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u26	Thank you. You know, in Luhansk we've just encountered the construction of stations outside the city to make less traffic in the suburbs. And we're facing this dilemma, if we don't take the money, then what's the car going to be held for? Because the car doesn't buy anything, it doesn't sell anything, it only has one source -- it's buses running, they're showing a service per percent, tickets, a mother's room and a child, and so on. Now we're going to make sure no one pays for anything there, but they won't just open cars and everything, they just won't be there. They're not open by the government, they're private firms. If the private doesn't get a penny, he just won't open it, so why us. And populism has been done again, we have to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion. The proposal for adoption by the committee is based on the draft law, and so is the view of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. This is a draft law amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act on the exemption from the payment of mandatory services of motor vehicles. [[Registration number 7465]] Please vote. [[16:21:29]] For-50 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to harmonize their rules with ILO Convention No.87 on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise. [[concerning the enforcement of trade union rights]] [[Registration number 7342]] I'm asking you to vote on the issue of a simplified procedure. [[16:22:16]] For 212 Decision taken. Rapporteur: National Deputy of Ukraine Mikhailo Jakovič Wolinec, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, TV and radio listeners! Recent surveys among the Ukrainian population have shown that 85 percent of the population of Ukraine, under favourable conditions, are ready to leave Ukraine. Why did such a situation arise? Because people in the state during these 20 years of independence feel unprotected. And if there were opportunities for people to go abroad without hindrance, there would be millions of people moving mainly to Western European countries. Why did such a situation arise? It's a payout in envelopes that shows slavery work, illegal work, working time in many businesses now amounts to 12-16 hours, unjustified layoffs and many other things. And the state can't protect people today like other social organizations and, above all, trade unions, because the old "price" unions and "yellow" employers are trying to protect employers today. And that's why the Second Bills of the 4 factions of the Supreme Council have written amendments to a number of Ukrainian laws in order to ensure that Ukrainian legislation meets international standards and conventions, such as Convention No. 87 “The Right to Freedom of Associations” and Convention No. 95 “The Right to Remuneration” — the right to pay. The Constitution of Ukraine is also being violated, and the Constitutional Court's rulings that trade unions must act in the State are without hindrance, that the assumed criminal responsibility for the violation of the rights of trade unions is without hindrance. However, we see another situation where people are defenseless and there is no one to protect them. And that's why, along with the trade union experts in Ukraine, I'm the main developer, I've made changes to a whole bunch of bills. Well, for example, mayors, councils, heads of different levels, they decide to tax unions with the municipal congregation. At the autobase company, for example, five members of the union, and they have to register in 10 state institutions, regularly, every month to report to various inspections, report to tax inspection and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u29	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u30	The bill provides for the introduction of Ukrainian legislation to the Constitution of Ukraine and also to international standards and standards. And it's good to protect our hired workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u31	Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan, head of the subcommittee. Please, about the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u32	I respect Michael Wolinz's self-criticism, who said that 80 percent of Ukrainian citizens don't expect the protection of trade unions that are created and do nothing to be jobs to be employed to be paid. It's a question. Mikhailo Yakovic, you've been leading the National Trade Center, the National Federation for 10 years, why don't you do anything to protect the workers? Why do you go to the rostrum and paint yourself more and more rights? What does the author propose? Think of it, dear fellows! The 87th ILO Convention provides for the right of unification of both trade unions and employers. This provides a legalization system. Why? There's an all-U.S. union status, there's a district status. And in order to have a status, you have to legalize: apply, file a statute, and then register it. What do respected colleagues offer? Nothing to do with it. There's a union of five or ten people. It states in its statute that it is all-Ukrainian, that it has the right to all rights to be in the general agreement, to negotiate with the government and so on, and to legalize its status. So we won't know about these organizations, what do they represent, what are their levels, what will they do? And this is a big organization. Therefore, the ILO Convention certainly grants rights and freedoms to organizations, but the ILO Convention says that legalization is certain. In our country it's clearly prescribed by the laws on trade unions, it's clearly prescribed by the laws on the registration of natural persons. And so if we go after what Michael Wolintz offered, we're going to have 10,000 or 100,000 unions with universal status. Why do they need it? For what they can't do, they want to fertilize the union tens of thousands and keep saying that they can see how big they are. That's why we propose, and this is the committee's opinion, this bill, either to reject, or to send for work. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u33	Yes, dear colleagues, regarding those who wish to participate in this discussion, please record. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, I would like to make the right impression on those, especially those who listen to our discussion. It is not the case, as Stoyan’s colleague said, that there would be 10,000 or 20,000 of them for health. But just the unions are in a completely different position than other public organizations that are legalized in a way that is provided for by the law and the Constitution of Ukraine. And then this was about this ILO No.87 convention, and it's not just about trade unions, it's about the other side of social and socio-work relations, the employers' organization. So to choose, to capture, to make only one decision about the legalization of trade unions in a way other than that provided for by law, is simply unacceptable, because we are entering and creating in our eyes a coalition of different legislative norms that will not allow these same unions to work in the future. The state, according to the Public Organizations Act, on political parties, needs to know clearly what kind of organization is created, which is legalized, how it reorganizes, how it ceases to exist. And you don't have to forget that under the Social Dialogue Act, the union has the right if it has a status, and before that, it has called itself, the U.S. has the right to foresee representation of the interests of a party. I think it's all about not trying to protect people's interests, protecting the interests of hired workers. This law is written in the interests of the professional bureaucratism, which we have reproduced, has proliferated a great deal. And I think today the people themselves will show us what kind of unions they trust. If I were a Ukrainian national MP, I wouldn't be a mudslide to muck my own country. Millions who want to leave is, I think, an exaggeration. Borders have opened, iron curtains have fallen, people are looking for ways to make money. This bill has nothing to do with the bill, it has to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u35	Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. The Chief Research Administration recommends that the bill be rejected. Again, we're going to follow the rules. And I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to harmonize their rules with the ILO N87 Convention on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise. [[concerning the acquisition of rights of trade unions]] Based on the base. [[16:31:02]] For two. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies! We need to consider in our second reading a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the observance of memorial dates and Jubilee in 2011. Who will report from the committee? Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u36	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The fact is that the committee has virtually reversed the first reading, if you can say so. This is a virtually new decision. So because it's a fake, it's actually falsified the first-reading procedure, turned it upside down, it's a mockery over the sessional room, and as a mockery, the rapporteur himself didn't come to the meeting! So, in order for us not to do anything stupid, there is a proposal to read the first reading and to set the point on the second reading. This will be right, just and in accordance with the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u37	Dear colleagues! From a political point of view, you have absolute logic. Since you and I have adopted the bill as a basis rather than as a whole, and the MPs have the right to submit the other dates that they consider to be worthy of attention on the national level, there are two proposals. In view of the absence of a committee head, we should postpone consideration of the matter. Wait a minute! If not, then vote on any amendment and the amendment that will be supported will be accepted, which will not be supported. But before I do that, I'm going to tell you my point of view as a person who understands these issues a little bit. It is by this decree that we will not cover all the dates that merit attention, and we will make an absolutely wild decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we will determine what is a memorable date and what is not. I think, more correctly, as we went before -- a separate decision on a separate memorial date, it will testify to the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in this case, we, dear colleagues, want to turn the Supreme Council of Ukraine into a calendar creator. Then let's do this job! But since you insist, let's go to the repairs. We accept a document that will then be subject to absolute criticism. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u38	Well, I'm saying they'll laugh, so I've had a request to postpone consideration of this issue, and if not, let's look at the dates. Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u39	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We fully support your position regarding the adoption of this decision in the second reading today. Because we really need to be determined by the Supreme Council after each single memorial date. This has been the practice of the work of the Supreme Council for all years. And at one date or another, specific draft regulations will be made, they will be discussed, they will carry specific practical loads. That is, the practical actions of the Cabinet of Ministers or other authorities will be determined to carry out one or the other work in order to mark these memorable dates and Jubilee. And this approach is true, and the faction supports it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, let's be clear again. I think we are all aware that if the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to honor the memory of an outstanding person, it must be an act of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this case, when you and I approve the list, we're taking the same approach. So I have this first proposal or a second proposal, because the first one, when we've taken it as a basis, we have to go to the amendment now. The second sentence is that we should postpone this bill and not consider it today, and then we'll make the right decision with you. That's why. Well, today, I guess. Come on, let's do some repairs. Amendment number 1 Vladimir Yavorowski. I'm voting on the approval of this amendment. [[16:36:11]] For two. Correction not supported. Next. Amendment No. 2 Mikoli Tomenka. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, in my speech when we discussed this document, I spoke of the fact that it is correct to divide the categories of dates into those that are celebrated and respected. In principle, the committee supported this idea, and so we're subtracting the moment that we have tragically sad days as the beginning of the war. So in this version, that in 2011 such memorable dates and Jubilee are celebrated and honored at the national level, I believe that such an amendment is correct. And I think then the decision will look more appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, have you got the offer? Because if we're talking about the beginning of a war, we can't say "festivities," this date is honored. And if we're talking about the birthday of a great classic, we're celebrating this date. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Amendment No. 2 of Mikli Tomenka. [[16:37:45]] For-12. The amendment is not accepted. We're going after the repairs. If it's yours, we'll come, so be it. Amendment No. 3 of Vladimir Yavorowski. You've got the text. I'm voting on Amendment 3. [[16:38:17]] For two. Correction not accepted. Amendment No. 4 Peter Yushchenka. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:38:39]] For the four of us. Dear colleagues, I don't want to say anything, but if the battle under Beresceka is 360 years old, we're not talking about it, well, then I don't understand at all how responsible we are politicians. Believe me, there's someone here who knows the basic story, well, you can't take this question lightly. Dear colleagues, look what you're talking about. I beg of you, dear fellows. We've already taken a lot of crap. Let's take another one. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 5 of Vladimir Yavorowski. [[16:39:27]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. Yes, Amendment 6, Kendzer and Karpuk. Please. I'll bet you a vote. Vote. [[16:40:03]] For-0 The 7th Mikaly Tomenka repair. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, I'm willing to continue to argue, but I think we need to define here. If we're still working in this mode, there's no point in us spending both our energy and our health, because I see a general mood not to take a decision that in the 20th year of independence would make a year where we properly marked the events, but to accept a document. I don't know how to mark it. My amendment relates to the fact that we cannot make a determination to my deep conviction to mark the dates of the exit into the world of some kind of work. I can tell you that in 2011, there were more than 300-400 brilliant works out there. If we're going to celebrate every novel and novel, well, it's going to be absurd. I'm one of the organizers of a 200-year celebration. The birth of Mikoli Vasilovich Gogol. My fund organized social advertising, radio advertising, we published a bunch of books, and we honor Mikola Vasilovich Gogol. But if we celebrate each book of Gogol, it is inadequate. So I think that the point in Gogol's publication needs to be removed from the resolve to lead to reasonable logic -- we celebrate or honor dates or Jubilee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u44	I'm voting on amendment number seven of Mikli Tomenka. Who suggested it? On the contrary, they said to go to the repairs. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, well. [[16:42:00]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. Let's do it this way. I ask your attention and your consent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Let's now put this draft decision in place for adoption as a whole. If the Supreme Council supports -- supported, if not -- then we cancel this decision and finish all the work. Once again, we don't want to go to the repairs, we don't have support. With this in mind, I propose that we put it to a vote in general. If the Supreme Council didn't support it, we'll cancel this document if it supported everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u45	We've already taken the first one. Well, we are now. Dear colleagues, we've already had a discussion here, please. I am voting for approval of the draft decree as a decree (registration number 8122). Please identify yourself. [[16:43:03]] For -6 Order rejected. I'm asking committees and factions, if there's a need for a decision, one or the other, to make a separate decision, we'll make a decision. I thank you for your support and understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Now it's suggested, your honor, that we adopt the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in the morning we put it in the order of the day, about. I'm sorry, it's a draft decree that doesn't need to be included in the agenda, about the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Autonomous Republic of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u46	About creation. We don't, we have temporary investigators and temporary specials. This is the Rules, this is the Law. Dear colleagues, we have determined that this commission will work until the completion of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of today's caedence. And then new people will come, and I'd like them to come here, and they'll continue with the commission. I'll read you the composition of the commission, it's a submission directly from the faction. It is proposed to elect the head of the temporary special commission of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Mr. Dach Boris Davidovich, faction of the Party of the Regions, deputy head of the commission, National Deputy of Ukraine Vasilnik Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of the "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense". And select such national deputies as TSK: Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich, Velizansky Sergey Kostinović, Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, Jeresko Igor Henadijovich, Zabarsky Vladislav Valeriyovich, Zac Alexander Viktorovich, Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich, Netecka Olena Anatoliyivna, Prestenko Marina Volodymyrovna, Senchenko Andry Vilenović, Trajduk Mikola Fedorovich, Trinduk Yuri Grigorovitch, Shemčuk Viktor Viktorovich. [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [[The faction of Yulia Timoshenko]] [[People's Party faction.]] [[The Timoshenko Yulia Block - "The Fatherland"]] [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [[faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine]] [[The faction "Clock Timoshenko – "The Fatherland"]] [["For the Future Reform Group"]] [[The Timoshenko Yulia Block - "The Fatherland"]] [[The faction of "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense.]] Is that a good lineup? I'm betting on a motion for a draft ruling as a ruling. [[Registration number 8525]] Please vote. [[16:46:06]] For 260 I'll take the order. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a proposal for a draft of the Supreme Council Decision on the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's declaration of independence. [[Registration number 8581]] Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the presidency, from Adam Ivanovich and Mikla Volodymyrovich, let me inform you that yesterday there was a meeting of the Coordinating Council for the preparation of the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's independence. Large - scale measures of a non-bilitarian nature are planned. At the same time, after we have studied in detail the projects for the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's independence, we propose the measures to be taken by the Supreme Council in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, it is suggested that, honourable colleagues, the first meeting of the next morning session be held as a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a number of other events in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, exhibitions and so forth. Is there no objection? The document is given to you. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft ruling as a decision on the actions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to mark the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's declaration of independence. Registration number 8581. Please vote. [[16:47:52]] For 256 Decision taken. Please count my vote, I haven't been able to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you the draft Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Since the Rules allow us to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure, here are less than 100 articles, I am voting on this proposal, please vote. [[16:48:36]] For 225 Decision taken. The reporter is the first Deputy Minister of Justice, Emilianov Inna Ivanovna. Correspondent is deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government of Montenegro, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You have before you the draft Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. As we know, part 136 of the Constitution of Ukraine establishes that the powers, order and activities of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crime are determined by the Constitution of Ukraine, by the laws of Ukraine, by the normative legal acts adopted by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, on matters relating to their competence. This constitutional norm was the legal basis for the draft Law on the Council of Ministers of the ARC being developed and submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. The development of this project was also due to the following circumstances. The analysis of the Constitutions and laws of Ukraine, including the ARC Constitutions and the legal and regulatory acts of the ARC Supreme Council, provides the basis for the conclusion that the relationship of the ARC Council of Ministers with the ARC executive authorities, the formation of the Autonomous Republic of Crime Council, the requirements for members of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the competence of this body on one or more issues. In doing so, it should be noted that today the ARC Council of Ministers is governed by, among other things, the Autonomous Republic of Crime Act of February 3, 1997, "The ARC Council of Ministers" which does not correspond in part to the Constitution of Ukraine. In addition, Ukraine's legislation, which consolidates only the general issues of competence of the ARC Council of Ministers in certain areas, is defined, inter alia, as part of the second article 38 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, does not limit the mandate of the Government of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to exercise powers related to the self-awareness of the Republic of the Crimea Constitution and the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the laws of Ukraine and the State's executive functions, delegated to them in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. Once again, this is a valid argument that the Law on the Council of Ministers of the ARC, which defines the status of the Council of Ministers, should be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u48	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u49	Thank you. Requirements for members, the competence of this body and also the relationship between the various ARC bodies and authorities, including the territorial organs of the central executive bodies that exist in Crimea. Please support that law and accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u50	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich Chernomorov, deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u51	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 19 May 2011 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crime, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill is aimed at legislative settlement of issues concerning the formation of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, its activities and the establishment of powers under the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. The Committee noted that the concept of the project was built on the legislative consolidation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Council of Ministers in the system of executive power of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. According to the provisions of article 136 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is the government of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. As well as the position of part one of article 35 and part five of article 38 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crime, approved by the Ukrainian law of December 23, 1998, which designates the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea as the executive body of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In the course of the discussion, members of the committee pointed to the absence of a special Ukrainian Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and noted that the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea was considered the Government of the Crimea under article 136 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the implementing body of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea under article 2 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which prevented it from being clearly identified in the system of public authorities and local self-government. The Crimea government does not refer either to State authorities or to local authorities. It was also noted that the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea would allow.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u52	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u53	It will allow the legislative process to improve the organization and order of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The Committee on Budget Affairs believes that the proposed bill has no impact on the budget. The Committee on Legal Policy concludes that the position of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus does not see the need to adopt a special Ukrainian Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The committee at its meeting approved the recommendation to the Supreme Council of a draft Ukrainian Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crime, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as a result of its first reading, to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u54	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Yes, last names, please. The stake, the faction of the Party of the Regions, then Taras Cranvill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u55	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm asking you to give my word to my colleague Konovaluku. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u56	Valerius Konovaluk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, really, this is a long-awaited issue, because the Autonomous Republic of Crimea needs a more clear mandate regarding the activities of the executive authorities. I am convinced that this aims to significantly improve socio-economic development and to ensure that it will then provide enough serious advantages and opportunities for Ukraine as a whole. Because there are personal positions that are present on the peninsula today, and I am convinced that this bill, which will clearly address the organization of the activities of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, will make it more possible to significantly improve the situation and make it possible for the national economy and socio-economic development to play a significant role. So I'm convinced that we're going to support this decision and we're going to do everything we can to make sure that the peninsula and the citizens who live in this area develop more significantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u58	Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u59	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The parliamentary group of Reforms for the Future on this bill wants to state the following things. We are ready to support him in the first reading, but we have a few warnings. First. This is a very important moment in the adoption of basic laws for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, too important to be considered in such a hurry. It's only now included in the agenda, we have a parallel special commission of the Supreme Council today, which has not yet begun to work, which could also offer certain suggestions, observations. And we are already in the first reading of this law. We are willing to vote in the first reading, but for the second reading, our group will first rely on both the position of the experts who express themselves on this bill and the position of the special commission which will also be, I hope, in preparing for the second reading to study and the constitutionalities of this law. Well, most of all. We're still concerned about whether we should have introduced a special law, if this is all clearly reflected in the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which is approved by the Ukrainian Parliament. So I'm going to stress again, now that we don't cut this MP, this government initiative, we vote in favour. But for the second reading, I would ask that we all study very carefully. Crime is the autonomy that brings together very many national and economic and geopolitical processes. And it's very important that we don't create, on the one hand, any resistance or sense of harm in some group that lives in the Crimea. On the other hand, so that we don't repeat or give birth to any of the new masquerade. Therefore, after the first reading has been adopted, there are no reduced procedures. Normally, we study quietly, prepare for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u60	All right, ladies and gentlemen, no one's insisting on the speech anymore? No, it's not. I'm voting on the proposal. Dutch Boris Davidovich, please head of the TSC. You'll have to work with the committee if you take it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u61	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected colleagues, has indeed made it clear that the Crimea is autonomy and that many political, social and other problems must be addressed there today. We have come to this decree of the Supreme Council, which went to this law for 15 years, but did not reach the walls of the Supreme Council. And what he is looking at in this room today is already a great victory. And I'm asking the MPs to back him up, he needs him like air. The Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic Act exists and the Council of Ministers Act is net.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u62	Yes, distinguished national MPs, may I have your attention? Once again, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office doesn't demonstrate such optimism, it doesn't think there's any reason to support the bill. I would like to take these circumstances into account. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[Registration number 8191]] Please vote. [[17:00:26]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a project. about preparing for the second reading, we have both, and so it's actually going to be shortened. We don't work for a week, we don't have big problems here. This will depend on you. I think we should say that when the committee is ready, we will consider it and make a final decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u63	In this session, we will make a decision. In this session, we will make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u64	We will make a final positive decision in this session. Right now we're just gonna call for a fight, and it's not gonna happen. We're not going to have a plenary next week, we're going to have two weeks, we're going to look at it. Please, Hellhound Alexander on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u65	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the bill is actually very simple, and it does not make sense to stretch it for a week. We are all in unpaid debt to the Crimea because the Crimea is not just a peninsula, the Crimea is a pearl of Ukraine. And all that's good for Crimea is good for Ukraine. I propose to vote in general and now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. A palliative and compromise decision to prepare for the second reading of the commission of the Committee under reduced procedure. Please vote. About preparing for a second reading by a reduced procedure. Come on, let's have a look. Let the lawyers take a closer look. So there's no President's veto. Dear colleagues! I say again, you don't understand the offer. Change the vote. It is a matter of commissioning a committee, taking into account the relevance of the matter, to prepare it for consideration on a simplified procedure. Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u67	Excuse me, Vladimir Mikhailovich! The rush with which this bill is currently being implemented convinces us that it is indeed part of certain actions that are not related at all to legislative regulation. From what they say, he's been waiting for him for 15 years. From the fact that the week normally works with him in addition to the commission we've created, and the expert environment, and we'll normally appreciate everything. Not like that. Today it has been included in the agenda, and today we accept it in the first reading. Today, however, they want a reduced procedure or in general. This only raises suspicion that there are other future plans under this law. So you can just lose the extra 20 votes now, permanently and permanently for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Because my proposal was misunderstood, and I had to put the matter to the vote again. Here's another offer for you. To instruct the committee to consider the reduced procedure. Either way, it'll be at least two weeks. So now the proposal, to go back to this, to consider this proposal. And if it's supported, then we'll put it to a vote essentially. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the return to the proposal to review and prepare the bill for the second reading under the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:04:24]] For 238. Decision taken. I now place a vote on the commission of the committee to prepare the bill for the second reading under the reduced procedure, please vote. [[17:04:47]] For 236 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending article 290 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. [[about the donor information]] [[Registration number 8318]] In summary, I'm putting this motion to the vote, please vote. [[17:05:21]] For 213 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Health of Kopitov Sergey Mikolayovich. Coroner is the head of the Zabarski Vladislav Valeriyovich Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u69	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The legal regulation of transplantation and other related activities is now defined by the Ukrainian Laws on Transplantation of Organs and Other Anatomic Materials, the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the orders of the Ministry of Health. The purpose of the draft law is to bring part three of article 290 of the Civil Code of Ukraine into line with the requirements of article 13 of the Council of Europe Resolution on bringing States parties into conformity with the legislation on removal, transplantation and transplantation of materials of the human body. [[No. 78]] It is the fact that the donor should not be a known recipient and the recipient should be a donor family, except in cases where the recipient and the donor are married or close relatives. The MoH asks for support for proposals for the adoption of the law necessary for the further development of transplantation and for the promotion of Ukraine's positive image as a state developing a legal transplant according to European standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u70	Thank you, too. Zabarski Vladislav Valeriyovich, head of the Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u71	Honourable Chairman, Honorable Fellows, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy discussed at its meeting on May 18, this year the draft Law of Ukraine amending article 290 of the Ukrainian Civil Code on Information about Donors. The bill proposes to amend the second part of article 290, according to which the donor should not be a known recipient, and the recipient to the donor’s family, except in cases where the recipient and the donor are married or are close relatives. This is in line with article 13 of the Council of Europe Resolution on bringing legislation into line with the member states on removal, transplantation and transplantation of human body materials adopted on May 11, 1978. Thus, the adoption of the bill will ensure that the second part of article 290 of the Civil Code of Ukraine complies with the requirements of the resolution of the Council of Europe. The committee notes that the proposed draft law is more balanced because, in connection with the transplantation of a recipient’s organ, certain psychological and other issues may arise in the latter, especially in the case of blackmail or extortion in the case of family members, close relatives of the deceased learn about the recipient. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus, in its conclusion, argued that it was appropriate to return the draft to pre-work, referring to the need to make appropriate changes. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to be adopted on the basis of the mandate of the Committee on Legal Policy to finalize the proposed bill, taking into account the comments and proposals made by entities of the right to legislative initiative, and to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Taras Blackwall, microphone, reform group for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! Our MP group, Reforms for the Future, will support this bill. We think it's, in addition to meeting the civil standards that have been adopted around the world, it's still simple, it's fundamentally humane. Let us understand that when transplants are performed that have been agreed upon when donor organ transplants occur, there are very often moral complications. Ukraine has not yet entered a period when we will have the full work of transplanting donor organs from outsiders, not from relatives, especially from the dead, but this will eventually be sooner or later. So far, we need to establish all the normal rules that are laid down in the moral field in this part. Without them, we cannot approach because psychological incompatibilities, psychological complications will arise. People whose relative, for example, has become a donor may have an inadequate response after all. We must not allow a person who has received donor organs that have thus been saved to undergo some psychological and physical pressing. In this regard, this rule, which is entirely included in national legislation in most civilized countries, must be found in Ukrainian legislation. It's a simple bill. I suppose if there are no warnings, we could vote it out immediately in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u74	Yes, dear fellows, no one insists on performing? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 290 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[about the donor information]] [[Registration number 8318]] Please vote. [[17:11:51]] For the 250. The decision is not taken. Decision taken! Excuse me. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal to accept it as a whole. The Minister's office won't deny it? What's more, the Cabinet of Ministers is asking. Is there no denying you? No, it's not. I put to the vote a motion for adoption as a whole of the draft law as the Act amending article 290 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[about the donor information]] [[Registration number 8318]] Please vote. [[17:12:36]] For 262 The law is passed. A draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity is being announced for consideration. [[concerning State export control]] [[Registration number 8488]] There was a proposal here -- I heard -- to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[17:13:12]] For the 220. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Maksut Anatoly Arkadyovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Chechtov Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u75	Dear National Deputies! You have before you a draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity. The essence of the bill is to determine what the law does. The Act does not extend to relations that arise in the course of State expert control. The need to develop such a law is due, firstly, to the present day, to state export control measures in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on State control over international transfers of military supplies and dual use in accordance with Ukraine's international obligations. Secondly, Derzexport control is not included in the list of licensing authorities and therefore does not issue licences to operators for certain types of farming activity, nor does it carry out State supervision, control of the economic activity of operators. Therefore, there is a need for legislative regulation on the application of State oversight, control in the field of economic activity on matters related to the implementation of State expert control measures. Thus, by amending article 2 of the law and excluding this activity from the law, it is proposed that this issue be settled. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u76	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Mikhail Vasilovich, what about the committee's decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u77	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law provides for the addition of an article of the second Ukrainian Law on the basic principles of State oversight and control in the field of economic activity in part, that the act of this law does not extend to relations that arise in the course of State expert control. The adoption of the law will avoid relying on the State expert control functions, control in the field of economic activity, which are not related to the implementation of State policy measures in the field of State expert control, which is carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on State control over the transfer of goods of military use and dual use, as well as duplication of control measures. the activity of the subject. The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship reviewed the draft law and unanimously decided to support it in the first reading. I'm going to the session room to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u78	Yes, Your Honor, I'd like you to sign up for a discussion. Yes, name of the national MPs. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, if this bill had been adopted a few years ago, we would have been able to save in Zaporozhye a beautiful and wonderful legendary company called Spark, which produced beautiful radio-location equipment and which had little misfortune to place this radio-invite equipment abroad. And all the follow-up actions -- repairs, supply of kits, self-contracting -- immediately hit Derzexportcontrol, the Ukspec defense. And then there, the experts, all these controlling, banning organizations of states, banned Iscree from going out on its own into the external market, which eventually led to this long-term crisis, which is now going through this beautiful collective, where our nation's assembled radioelectronics elite can no doubt say that. It is clear, then, that this bill should be adopted. And it would be nice, probably, if it were to say that Derzexport control does not extend to goods that do not have a double assignment, then this bill could be adopted in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u80	Yes, Valery Kamchatny, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u81	Please pass the word to a colleague from our MP's "Reform for the Future" group, Bully Hennadia.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u82	Who? Ah, Hennady Bully, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u83	MP Reforms for the Future, Deputy Zadirko, Mikolayevščina. The project is proposed in part two of the second article of the Ukrainian Act "On Basic Principles of State Control and Control in the Field of Economic Activity" after the words "mind control" are added with the words "State Export Control". To this end, the law does not extend to relations arising from foreign exchange controls, customs controls, government export controls. In principle, we understand that it's simply a matter of order in this bill, in this article, so we propose that the MP group "For the Future Reform" vote in favour of this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u84	Yes, distinguished national MPs, no one insists on the speech? I can't see. The committee proposes to adopt legislation on the basis of which the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that a bill can be adopted as a basis. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity. [[concerning State export control]] Registration number 8488. Please vote. [[17:19:42]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal to adopt the bill as a law. Is there a denial? None. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft law as a law, namely, to amend article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity. [[concerning State export control]] Registration number 8488. Please vote. [[17:20:28]] For 257 The law is passed. Thank you. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. [[on the provision of pharmaceuticals for medical and scientific research]] Registration number 8175. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:21:06]] For 218. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Victor Petrovich Korz. Correspondent is the head of the Health Committee’s Subcommittee, Yuri Alexanderovich Haydaev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u85	Your Honor is presiding! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes to amend article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices by supplementing the list of grounds for import into the customs territory of Ukraine of unregistered medical devices. The relevance of this problem is that for quite some time, domestic manufacturers of medical devices have been deprived of the ability to import samples of substance, pellet, so-called "in bullk", including standard and reference links that are not registered in Ukraine. Such facilities are used by companies at the pharmaceutical stage and are needed to work on technology, to produce research series, to test analytical methods, and to control quality. This was as a result of the termination of the MOH of Ukraine by the issuing of appropriate permits required by the customs authorities of Ukraine under the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. In turn, the customs authorities do not miss samples of unregistered medical devices that are being processed for further registration without a permit from the ILO. At the same time, raw materials for domestic medicine are mainly purchased abroad. Research into pharmaceutical development is carried out by a manufacturer, but it is not possible without a certain amount of research raw material. The purchase of samples of raw materials is geared towards choosing the optimal quality and safety of suppliers. The current situation can lead to the laundering of domestic drugs, the final washout from the Ukrainian market, and the inevitable increase in the cost of treatment for Ukrainian citizens. The adoption of the law will allow the production of medical devices by domestic enterprises to be unlocked and their price reduced by consumers from five to 20 times. As for the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, it was somewhat groundless we agreed on it and there are no objections on its part today. The Ministry of Health supports the bill, the committee of profile considers it and unanimously supports it. Please consider it and support it as a matter of law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u86	Thank you, too. I invite the head of the Health Committee’s Subcommittee, Yuri Alexanderovich Haydava, to address me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u87	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Masterful colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Health at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. National MPs, members of our committee unanimously noted that the bill is essential in terms of providing, updating and extending the nomenclature of domestic pharmaceutical industries by introducing generic medical devices. Today, 73 percent of imported pharmaceuticals in Ukraine’s pharmaceutical market make up, think about it, 73 percent in value terms and 34 percent in packages. It is no secret that on a generic basis a medical device is several times cheaper than a regional medicine and does not give in to quality and efficiency. The use of generic drugs can significantly increase the financial availability of medical supplies for the population and increase the volume of government medicine purchases for the health care system. And so the introduction of generic drugs today is artificially inhibited because of the imperfections of legislation, namely, because the actual version of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices does not provide for the possibility of importing unregistered substances for pharmaceutical development, stressing the development, development, and operation of their manufacturing technologies. The bill removes this gap and enables the production of lifesaving generic medical devices. In view of the above, we consider it appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u88	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. The names of the national deputies please be placed on the information board. Taras Cranvil is a member of the Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u89	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, I accidentally pressed "for," but in this particular case, we have a very serious warning about this bill. Because this is about medical devices that can be imported into Ukraine without certification, and we don't see now, unfortunately, a full guarantee by this law of the fact that they will be used really exclusively for the development of new other medical devices that should already be certified. There's no certainty, there's no guarantee, so there's no doubt that if we had a little bit more time from the moment of inclusion to the agenda and until the moment of full consideration in the first reading, our MP group "Reforms for the Future" would probably have every reason to vote in favour of this bill. Unfortunately, now that we are literally consulting here in this room, we conclude that we don't see enough guarantees in that text that are being amended into the law to make sure that we don't abuse the import of these materials. Unfortunately, because of this accelerated work, and considering that it has no acknowledgment, we will not be able to vote in favour of this bill. Maybe there's a point to delay it and normally, by the next plenary week, to make sure that they actually present us with evidence that it can't be used as an abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u90	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. Please vote on the bill as a basis. [[Registration number 8175]] [[17:28:07]] For 244 Decisions were made.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, there was an offer to vote in general, but there is a denial with which Taras Crnrowil spoke. Please, Haydayav, microphone. But, dear fellows, if you don't mind one MP, I don't have the right to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, I just want to explain, in order to produce the drug, the generic drug, you need to introduce the substance that you have to pay for, and the price of the drugs is rising dramatically. I would specifically say in my report, stressing that it is imported only for the development of these drugs, only! There is no way this drug will come on the counter. In no case will this drug be treated by people who are being imported specifically for the development of a generic drug. Therefore, I would like to ask Taras Vejacheslavovich to listen to my opinion and the opinion of the Committee and withdraw his remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u93	Please, Taras Blackwall. Just a minute. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u94	Well, first of all, I'd like to ask some people there not to demonstrate their special level of intelligence. And as far as I'm concerned, the rapporteur on this issue, Mr. Haydawev, I say again, we understand the need for this law, but, well, we have a position in our faction. If we don't feel confident that the law can't be used for evil, well, there are taboos for us. We want to see and see. Is something gonna change this week? Why is it so burning? Explain? When you start in Crimea in such haste, well, it's hard to believe in good intentions. In this case, there will also be a signing by the Head of the Supreme Council, for the President's signature, for the publication. What's so burning? What does the week change? Come on, prepare normally for the second reading. We may not have warnings, but we want to check. Here is the life and health of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-31-m1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, we have adopted the bill as a basis. In accordance with the Rules, if there is a denial of either member, we cannot put to the vote a motion for acceptance as a whole. Well, I think that's obvious, it'll be ready in a week, let's see. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered all the issues that were scheduled for Tuesday. Therefore, my distinguished colleagues, the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow we will continue to work in plenary mode, as we agreed with you, first the speeches of the national MPs, then the information of the Attorney General, then the plan. Thanks for the job. I declare once again the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
