ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:59]] They registered in the 389 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 15 to 18 November 2011. Six plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, 113 questions of the agenda were considered, 17 laws and 11 regulations were adopted: 19 bills were adopted, 2 bills were sent to the committee for re-reading, 2 bills were returned to the subjects of the legislative initiative, 28 bills and 9 draft regulations were rejected; 3 laws were adopted in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 1 law was rejected, 121 parliamentary requests were announced. Dear colleagues, this plenary week is no less tense, and the Conciliation Council has supported the initiative of Aleksandra Sergiyovich Efremov that we will put to the vote a proposal to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the conclusion of all the issues identified by the schedule for each plenary day. So I ask you to prepare for the vote, and now we're going to put this proposal to the vote. And while you're preparing, dear colleagues, I'm taking you to your well-known announcement. According to this statement, and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zeynalov Eduard Zhangirovich, from the composition of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Another announcement, distinguished national MPs. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and according to the signatures of 15 Ukrainian national deputies, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of an interfractional parliamentary association "Equal Opportunities", which aims to achieve gender balance in Ukraine, particularly through the active involvement of women in public political life. The head of the Interfractional Union "Equal Opportunities" elected the national deputies of Ukraine, Kovalevska Julija Sergiyevna, Kondratjuk Olena Konstantinovna and Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovna. I ask, fellow believers, to give every contribution to the work of this interfractional parliamentary union, well, and to the men actively approach it. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we decided to form an interim commission of inquiry into the events that took place in Donetsk and led to the death of Gennady Konoplov. Deputies within 12 hours should submit their proposals for membership in this TSC. At 3 p.m., we will have a meeting of the Conciliation Council, with the participation of the faction leaders and, accordingly, the individual committee heads who are invited to discuss issues on the Conciliation Council. By this time, I would ask that we draw up all the proposals and draft the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree by agreeing on the positions of head, deputy and secretary of this commission. In the evening session, we should make the right decision. No objections? We made a deal then. Dear National Deputies! Before I move on to the factions authorized by the factions, I am voting on the proposal to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the finalization of the issues set by the schedule for Tuesday, December 6. Please vote. [[10:05:32]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, on Tuesday we hold presentations by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, messages, and information. The factions and groups would like to sign up for the performance. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Sergey Gordienko will be next. Or is it a faction?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u2	Respectable compatriots! Dear colleagues! Since the first day, the authorities have not only been working for self - destruction but have been leading the entire country into a chasm. Pensioners and pensioners were mugged. They try to launch protests by killing the sick elderly. The economy at the freezing point. Public corruption is on the rise. The point of detention of high - sales workers who did not want to share is simply an emphasis on its scale. And in these circumstances, the authorities are not ashamed to take the last cents into the sawdust, and they refuse the money that is due to them in court. They were going to walk around the homes of single mothers looking for luxury items in paws, such as bicycles, just to get the help of the needy. After a wave of indignation, the government seemed to have called off the bill, but not individual bills, but the whole government. Instead, the government spends an empty budget, spending all new and new billions on its maintenance, especially on the force. Not surprisingly, Ukrainians go to mass protests every day: Donetsk and Lviv, Crimea and Poltava, entrepreneurs and Chernobyl, Afghans and peasants. It's not a splash on the water, it's a sign of a storm. The storms of the Supreme Council and the multi-thousand rallies under the Cabinet of Ministers have only become the beginning, and they have mass protested in the basic electoral areas of the Party of the Regions. People with villas storm the district administration in Donetsk. In Crimea, young mothers and children demanded social assistance at a rally. Those who voted in favor of today’s authority are now cursing their choice. Citizens are self - organized and united, protecting their social rights. There is a powerful social demand to unite the opposition. We are bound to stand together to protect people, our European choice, our future state. If the authorities have forgotten their promise — to hear everyone — this is a direct duty to the opposition. The choice between responsibility and the personal ambitions of some leaders. The opposition has no right to lose. Therefore, the united opposition is already working together on a future victory in the parliamentary elections. There's an understanding between the absolute majority of the opposition forces, and there's work to be done on identifying joint candidates for majority districts. We're working on a platform for collective opposition, we're going to do everything we can to prevent counterfeiting, we're going to fight for the vote of every voter, we're going to create a democratic majority in Parliament. For today’s authorities, this means complete failure. Efforts by the authorities to intimidate society failed, and the protest takes turns. More than a million signatures against Yanukovic have been collected in Ukraine, but not all have been willing to place their signatures. Dozens of millions of citizens, using football terminology, show this authority the red card. All new mass stocks are being prepared, and thousands of people are coming out. So the least painful option for power is that if it went away as a result of transparent and honest parliamentary elections, it would be thrown out by street protests. I'm calling on the leadership of the state to stop until the social explosion blows up the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u3	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Alexander Kuzmuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u4	Dear Chairman, dear compatriots! The election to the State Duma of the Russian Federation ended, where our comrades in the struggle, the Communists of Russia, achieved great success, effectively doubling their representation in the higher legislature of the state, with which we sincerely welcome them. The struggle of workers and companies in Russia also inspires our people: protests by Afghans, Chernobyl, children of war, veterans, pensioners, other population categories that have suffered the most from liberal reforms, total cuts in social benefits and programs require serious analysis and reflection from the whole society. These actions are a direct extension of those who have conducted and conducted communists, persistently and consistently defending the life interests of a person's work: the right to work and a decent salary, to rest, to free medical care and education, to a well-deserved pension, to affordable prices and to low utility tariffs, is something that has been destroyed by the destruction of socialism and the establishment in Ukraine of capital dictatorship and criminal bourgeoisie. For 20 long years, the bourgeoisie has been cynical about the work of the workers, 20 long years of fighting unorganizedly and indistinguishablely. Sailors and teachers, pensioners and students, small entrepreneurs and other categories of our citizens tended to stand only for their own personal or narrow-group interests, forgetting those who also suffer from capitalism. The main and key issue of the class struggle - regime change and the political system - the protestors did not violate. That's why the Company is so hard on the issue of the immediate change of the political system and the transition of power into the hands of the people. Twenty long years, it's the communists who keep saying to the people of Ukraine, "Get up against capitalist slavery. Unite and Organize! Do not be fooled by the cheap demagogies and by the finesse they take the next day. Get rid of the fear of exploiters, because you have nothing to lose but your chains." Today, by the walls of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, in the areas of cities and villages, our comrades demand that the authorities give up criminal incursions on deserved benefits. In response, the frightened regime resorted to outright reprisals, counting on the embryo to destroy the will of our people. Unfortunately, in this fight there is also the first human victim, the Donate miner, the pensioner of Gennady Konoplov. The Afghans, the Chernobylites, the children of war, the veterans, who saved and protected their health and rebuilt the Motherland, today are very difficult. They're back on the front. Therefore, the Communist Party of Ukraine calls on all people to uphold their just demands. Our strength in organization and solidarity. All workers have common interests. By working together, feeling the elbow of a comrade in combat, we can now force the rich to count on man’s work. But that's not enough: from socio-economic requirements, we have to move on to political ones. It is important to understand that as long as power remains in the hands of the great capital, there will be no radical change in behalf of the people. The Ukrainian bourgeoisie still has the opportunity to carry out its horrendous thefts without penalty, for it has been cut off from the people by the armament of a capitalist state based on power and deceit. Its arsenal has a network of subversive means of mass misinformation, power structures, police, prosecutors, and courts. They are used to intimidate people and suppress protest moods. It's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u6	The main weapon of bourgeoisie is deception. The question of power is a key question of the moment. The company developed and brought to justice the people's anti-crisis program, and we offered a real economic recovery program and we're ready for ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u7	Thank you. Alexander Kuzmuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u8	Companions of the Magnificent! Dear compatriots! 20 years ago, on December 6, 1991, the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act was passed in this Hall. This law assigned tasks to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, approved structure, approved rights and duties of military personnel. A small group of state patriots in three rooms of today’s budget committee took over the administration of nearly a million people in Ukraine. They took on political responsibility for the peace of the Ukrainian people, for the peace of the world, holding the third in power the nuclear potential. In 20 years of independence, we can be proud that in short periods, no one has ever done anything to us, we've created a central body of executive power, the Ministry of Defence. On the basis of a variety of groups, we have created modern - day Armed Forces. We've adopted all the necessary legislative framework for their functioning. For the first time in the Soviet Union, in post - Soviet space, Ukraine, without experience, became a world peacemaker, taking part in the construction of a new world security architecture, participating in peacekeeping operations, and becoming one of the most authoritative peacekeepers in the world. Nearly 40,000 officers from all over the former Soviet Union came to Ukraine, deliberately devoting themselves to the service of the Ukrainian people. The army and the fleet can't function without three basic things. The first is trust, trust is 90 percent of the military itself. The second is respect. And the military deserves respect because they have voluntarily restricted themselves to rights and opportunities and not only to themselves but also to their families. Concern is the comprehensive provision of our Armed Forces, and, above all, the legislative provision of the Supreme Council, the adoption of a real budget -- 1.35 gross products -- for the following year, and we can. Soldiers are special people: they never betray anyone. And on that day, I sincerely welcome all of you Ukrainian parliamentarians, the entire Ukrainian people, to the faction of the Party of the Regions. And the low cost to our military and their families for their service to our Fatherland. Glory to Ukraine! Praise be to her Armed Forces!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u9	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u10	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear citizens, no one will be surprised that our time is a time of trouble. There are problems that only politicians are concerned about, that are largely around power, and that is, at any cost, to return to it. That is why there is so much talk about elections today. There are problems that are real, and there are those that cause society to break it apart. In fact, many important issues need to be addressed: education, benefits, and youth. But of all the others, there are those that don't depend on party colors or ideologies or revolutions, and they touch everyone -- they're health problems. Oncology has become a threat to everyone. Mortality from this disease increases every year, and the word "cancer" has become a terrible diagnosis for which neither money nor relationships solve anything. But among all cancers, the worst thing is that it beats the better half of humanity, is breast cancer. "Isn't that too narrow for a national problem?" - someone will ask. But ask any woman -- and understand the answer. According to experts, every seventh woman has a real chance of getting a terrible diagnosis. But the fear of getting sick is common. How much anxiety, despair, and sorrow this disease has brought. Every year, about 14 to 15 thousand breast cancers are registered in Ukraine. About half the patients, despite the efforts of doctors, die from this pathology. On the average, a sick woman loses - let's think! 17-18 years of life, and the age of the sick goes down every year. To understand how terrible this is, one woman dies every 30 minutes in Ukraine. And this is based on the 90 percent cure of the same disease in more developed countries. Where's the women's protection system, the dissipation system? Why are 80 percent of breast cancer patients diagnosed in Ukraine only in the final stages of their disease? Does every woman consult with her mother each year? Where does the nearest mammoth center end up? The answer is obvious: An active system of prevention and diagnosis that covers the entire population, which is missing. On the other hand, the secondaryity of the health issue in the system of human values, the lack of basic knowledge, the tendency to self - heal, the lack of confidence in medical institutions, has led to the fact that in many cases the final diagnosis has been established at the last stages, which have already been discussed when, unfortunately, the processes are irreversible. In view of the difficult situation, I introduced the draft Law on Prevention, Diagnostics and Treatment of Foreboding and Breast Cancer, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading in 2009. Sadly, by this time he had not been introduced into the second reading and adoption as a whole. And the problem isn't just staying -- it's growing out of the lives of thousands of our mothers or our wives. I believe that most Ukrainian citizens have learned in 20 years to share the problems and problems that have come true. If half the population lives in sickness and the other population can lose the nearest person, that is the problem for everyone. No one is allowed to reject the question of thousands of lives, the health of millions, the moral and psychological comforts of all. Because, forgetting this problem today,
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u12	Forgetting this problem today, we're not just denying the hope of the sick -- we're signing a verdict to this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u13	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Next up will be Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens! At the beginning of the third millennium, the world faced the threat of famine. According to the World Health Organization, 24,000 people die every day from hunger. The United Nations has published even more dramatic figures: one child dies every five seconds from malnutrition, a total of 6 million a year. One out of six inhabitants of the earth, more than 1 billion people, is hungry. In doing so, if Ukraine’s agricultural potential were to be properly exploited, we would also add to the needs of citizens around the world. Experts estimate that under a rational land use structure and adequate scientific and resource resources, our country is capable of producing food in a quantity that meets the needs of 150 million people. Scientists claim that the total cost of Ukrainian countries is $340 billion. And we'll add, it's priceless. However, our agricultural productivity remains 10 times lower than in Canada, the United States, or European countries. So the MP's Reform for the Future is convinced that today is the time to return to the topic of placing grain in our country's global food supply. Our nation sees grain reserves as currency reserves. And he sees his prospect of forming the very world grain reserve fund at the United Nations. In its time, the Ukrainian government has supported the initiative of scientists to develop the concept of the creation of a world grain reserve and to identify Ukraine’s place and quotas together with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. The formation of such a reserve, in our view, will only increase the stability of the world’s food markets. And Ukraine would have to form annual quotas for the UN’s global grain reserve of 10 million tons each year. While there is no clear answer to Ukraine's proposal. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization is well aware that sooner or later the idea of storing supplies as a large world reserve will be realized. And the UN or any other world organization will agree to put this idea into effect. Finally, the above statistics on human mortality from malnutrition are the best argument in favour of its implementation, because it is God's business. And Ukraine can't miss its chance. Moreover, food problems are increasingly disturbing the world’s community. In the summer of this year, the ministers of agriculture in the Great Twenties agreed to explore the possibility of creating extraordinary food reserves in countries that lack food. That's why we're asking the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to immediately start preparing for the World Bank of Grains right here in Ukraine's native niece, and ultimately to prevent further errors in the introduction of export duties into grain, resulting in the loss of a significant share of the market for Ukrainian grains, and to initiate and implement a program of creating high-tech capacities for the storage and processing of grain in Ukraine. For the sake of the future, the MP Group is ready to make every effort to make sure that this issue is resolved in the interests of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u15	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! On December 1, 1991, more than 90 percent of the citizens of the then Soviet Union who lived in Ukraine expressed their support for the act of independence and their desire to live in their own Ukrainian state. What Ukraine became 20 years later, you could clearly see on December 1, 2011 in the 20th year of the independence referendum. This must be the most important Ukrainian festival for a normal civilized country, for a normal civilized authority, because on that day it was the people who determined its future. On the other hand, the President of Ukraine celebrated this day when he was in Israel, where he met a number of officials and dozens of deputies of the parliamentary majority with orders for a significant contribution to the construction of the Ukrainian state. On this day, the Prime Minister with the government attended a party dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Football Federation and rewarded the football players. At a lower level, officials and officials, as usual, solved their own problems and problems for their families and friends. Perhaps the most profanity of the 20th year of the referendum was observed by our prosecutor's office, who allegedly invited the well-known authority of the baroque world and studied with him famous helmets: "Small," "Amnesty," "Brother," "Don't shoot each other." I wonder if the prosecutors discussed the possibility of a criminal case being brought against them by analogy with Lucenk, who they had already opened the case for considering marking at the state level the day of the police? A certain symbol of what Ukraine had become in 20 years under the present authority was the Court of Appeal in the case of Julia Timoshenko, who had not been released to either MPs or journalists. And the judge who got sick was forced by the authorities to read a decision that was proposed and sounded just in the 20th anniversary of the independence referendum. Perhaps the only sign was adopted on December 1st by the Resolution of the European Parliament. This resolution is an indication of what Ukraine’s current authorities have done in 20 years. From 15 paragraphs of the Resolution: 6 directly determine the assessment of the judicial political persecution of the opposition, 5 refers to the problems of freedom of speech, the organization of elections, and the judicial system. So, based on this document and considering that President Viktor Yanukovic has stated that he appreciates this resolution and considers it necessary to take it into account, the BUT faction demands that the main requirements of the European Parliament be met. First. In accordance with paragraph 2 of the European Parliament Resolutions, amend articles 364, 365 and bring these articles into line with European standards regarding persecution of political opposition. Item two. In accordance with paragraph 6 of the Resolution, ensure an open and transparent trial. And the third point. In accordance with paragraph 3 of the Resolution, ensure that Julia Timoshenko participates in future elections in Ukraine. In addition, we demand that the authorities allow international medical expertise and proper treatment to be carried out by Timoshenko, Lucenka, Yvashchenka, whose family members have appealed to the relevant committee. We demand that a commission sent by the Government of Canada do so because such a statement already exists. Instead, it became clear that today at 10 a.m., a sick man named Timoshenko is being questioned again to open a new case 15 years ago. On the one hand, it is said that it will be provided with European medical conditions. On the other hand, they're being questioned. So on the 20th anniversary of independence, we have an authority for which the values of democracy and statehood are not a priority. Which today has become more than just a norm. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u17	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u18	which today has become the norm not only of persecution of political opposition but also of persecution of business, journalists, all those who define the general line of power. Today's government does not stop before the physical destruction of political opponents, does not stop before the physical destruction of the protesters, so we demand that the President, in general, stop the killing of political opponents, stop the killing of democracy and the statehood of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-06-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. For suggestions that need response, please prepare the secretariat with appropriate letters, addresses, and assignments. Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the BUT faction – "The Fatherland", the "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" faction, in accordance with the Rules, require a recess to be announced for consultations. So should the Conciliation Council be gathered or what? Yeah, maybe this is how we do it: to keep the meeting going and we're going to the Conciliation Council? Let's maybe make another suggestion: let's take a look at the inclusion in the agenda, then we'll make an announcement. One minute, I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to the faction manager. So now, maybe we've voted for inclusion in the agenda so the committees know how to work, then they've announced a break? Oh, no? There's a five-minute recess.
