ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:13]] Cards were registered in the 375 national deputies’ session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, let's move on to "Inclusion in the agenda of the day session." Dear colleagues, this is a proposal: we will now go through every bill that is proposed for inclusion in the agenda. Those who will be supported will be formed as a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the agenda of the day session in order to comply with the Rules. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the Ordinance on the Registration of National Deputies of Ukraine and the fixation of the results of their personal vote by means of a sensory key. [[Registration number 8218]] Please vote. [[16:02:28]] For 297 Decision taken. Please. The factions? Please. Regional Party – 155, "BUT – Fatherland" – 37, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 35, Communist faction – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 6. Please. But it's a day-to-day inclusion. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask the committee to consider tomorrow at the meeting so that we can make a decision on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Single Customs Tariff. [[on Taxation of Imported Goods for Publishing Activities]] [[Registration number 8096]] Please vote. [[16:03:35]] For 262 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the introduction of the principle of State registration of legal persons on the basis of a model statute. [[Registration numbers 8146, 8146-1]] Please vote. [[16:04:13]] For 255 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the establishment of the principle of the conduct of business by private law entities without the application of seals. [[Registration number 8215]] Please vote. [[16:04:53]] For 285 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Act on Shareholder Associations and other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[regarding the restoration of the name at the legislative level of an open stock company]] [[Registration number 8174]] Please vote. [[16:05:30.]] For 237 Decision taken. Asking the committee to consider this question so that we can make a decision. Yes, I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 6 of the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR on the definition of housing and general real estate. [[Registration number 8203]] Please vote. [[16:06:13]] For 291 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to streamline the budgetary process and increase the responsibility for the implementation of the State budget is put to the vote. [[Registration number 8083]] Please vote. [[16:06:48]] For-76 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Non-inclusion in the agenda means a rejection of the bill. I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues, well, we're not going to lynch now, read the Rules. I'm voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. Registration number 8049. Please vote. [[16:07:38]] For 325 Decision taken. I'm voting for a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project a decree marking the 120th anniversary of the birth of the great Ukrainian writer Michael Opanasovich Bulgakov. Registration number.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u2	I read the title of the decree. Registration number 8111. [[16:08:17]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I cannot correct the draft ruling. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting for a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the National Military Memorial Cemetery, registration number 8052. [[16:08:52]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, all the questions that have been found in support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will be included in the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on Change in the Order of the Day Session. Let us now consider the questions in the second reading. It is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex, registration number 4757. [[on the use of additional measures for the production of modern competitive agricultural equipment]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Grigory Mikolayovich Kaletnik. Please. Yes, the reporter! I suggest you, Your Honor, let's postpone the question, I ask the Secretariat to look for a reporter. Yes, a draft Act amending article 38 of the Ukrainian Veterinary Act is being introduced."Well, here goes the whole series. "For veterinary medicine." Here is also the reporter Gregory Kaletnik. I ask the secretariat to find the committee head. Is Anatoly Grizzenko there? Well, we'll look now. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on improving the disposal of military property]] The rapporteur is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u3	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! This bill was prepared for second reading on the committee, and all members of the committee voted unanimously in favour of the proposed edition. So I ask you to support him in a second reading. 15 amendments to proposals were made, and four, editorially two, the rest nine, relating to terminology issues, were rejected. I would ask colleagues who made these suggestions, taking into account the explanations, not to insist on them. This document will allow more efficient disposal of military assets and, in accordance with the State Budget Act, direct the funds received for the disposal of military equipment, weapons and so on. I'd like some backup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u4	Dear colleagues! Let's do some repairs. Correction one is included. No warning? None. The second one is edited. No warning? None. Amendment three, Yuri Carmazin. Declined. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u5	Yuri Carmazin. We adopted in the first reading an article called "Military Realmation." All the legislation that we've done in the past has been determined by what the Cabinet's ruling has defined as what it is. It's a combination of military weapons, ammunition and military equipment to ensure their use. That's why I'm proposing the title of article 6. So this is a broader concept of weapons. Because military property is a little bit different. As a result, I don’t understand why they didn’t consider the amendment. I think it's quite meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u6	Please, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u7	Dear colleagues! We have worked closely on this and other amendments to the same content in conjunction with Kabmin, with the Ministry of Defence and with our scientific and legal administration. After all, military property is a broader category than weapons. There is a medical property that can never be called weapons. There are many other types: engineering and other techniques that are not weapons. That's why the term "military property and its disposal," to our belief, covers those measures that relate to both weapons and technology and ammunition and everything else. I'd like to support an editorial from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u8	Yuri Anatoliyovich, please don't insist on your amendment, because the committee head has absolute logic. Do you insist on voting or not? I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 3 of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u9	He doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u10	Don't insist. Take it off, please. Then the 4th amendment, it's also taken off, it's similar. 5 revisions. Is there a miracle in her? No, it's not. 5th. 6th, accounted for. No warning? Next, Yuri Anatolyovich, 7th. It's the same thing. Strange doesn't insist. The 10th is the same. The 11th is the same. Well, all the other amendments are included. Anatoly Stepanovich, say the address.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask, given that colleagues who have made amendments, I thank them for this, they have agreed to the position of the committee. In fact, it's all taken into account. Support in the second reading as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u12	Honorable colleagues, the Chief Legal Authority, have called for a bill without notice. So we have every reason to put to the vote the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading and as a whole the bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. [[on improving the disposal of military property]] [[Registration number 7048]] Please vote. [[16:15:35]] For 318 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I am now announcing the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex. [[on the use of additional measures for the production of modern competitive agricultural equipment]] [[Registration number 4757]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Grigory Mikolayovich Kaletnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u13	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The purpose of the bill is to create more favourable conditions for domestic machinery companies that would encourage the development of better agricultural machinery with the use of a modern basic foreign production base, with further improvement of the production of their own high-tech agricultural technology in Ukraine, to activate an effective mechanism to accelerate the release of modern domestic competitive technology for Ukraine's agricultural complex. Tax policy regarding agricultural machinery includes tax taxation on nodes, aggregates of foreign production that are not produced in Ukraine and imported by machinery companies for the production of agricultural equipment. In the second reading, 17 suggestions and amendments were made by the Ukrainian people’s deputies. All suggestions have been carefully considered and discussed at the committee meeting. Most of the proposals, unfortunately, had to be rejected as non-conforming to the concept of the bill. As an example, the bill proposes to reduce the value of domestic production in the value of technology, especially during the initial period of the production of new samples, with the proposals of some national deputies increasing to 100 percent and 90 percent respectively. So it's almost a hundred percent transportation of imported technology. Such proposals are rejected and taken into account by those who improve the content of the bill. I would like to thank the national deputies who have worked and made their proposals to this bill. Some comments from the General Legal Office regarding disagreements with the Budget and Tax Codes may be accepted. But the changes and additions proposed in articles 1, 2, 3, 6, 12, 14 of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex do not affect the formation of the State Budget this year, the acquisition of them from the date of publication, and do not conflict with the provisions of the Ukrainian fiscal and tax codes. Acquiring the validity of other changes and additions is appropriate to agree and move them from January 1, 2012. Committee proposal: recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the second-reading bill and generally as a law of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, let us now consider amendments and suggestions from the Ukrainian national deputies. Amendment 1. Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u15	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, let's think about what the law is about. The point is that the Ukrainian State pays the tax. For whom? For Ukrainian manufacturers, they used our metal and all that. As a result, I propose article 1, paragraph 3, to read: "National technology and equipment for an agro-industrial complex is the technology and equipment produced by Ukrainian enterprises, whose costs, their drinking weight, materials, nodes, aggregates, parts and components of domestic production are 100 per cent." [[marked in paragraph 1 of this article]] It's obviously a native technique. You say, "it's more than 50 percent." So tell me, let's say it's Japan or Germany or the United States. We're always going to be this backward country, or you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, please take your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u17	I want to say again, Yuri Anatoliyovich, that we have studied very carefully what we are now able to do in Ukraine and the experience of other countries. By the way, I'll tell you that in the United States, and in other countries, they already have, they use nodes and aggregates that they get from other countries. But, we do. But we're talking about our Ukrainian. We can't today, at all we want to do a technique that is accepted by domestic agricultural producers for use if we don't use certain nodes that we can't actually reach that level. And that's why we're going to make this technique native. But who will buy it? So we need some sort of smart compromise that we've been looking for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u18	I'll bet you vote number one, Yuri Carmazin. [[The voice from the hall. Please back up!]] [[16:21:45.]] For-22. Correction not supported. Amendment number two, Anatolia Seminoga. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment 3, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u19	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another matter. It's not about encouraging you to drive in here or something with a screwdriver, it's about the definition of domestic technology and equipment. So, in paragraph three of my amendment 3, it says, "Delete paragraph four of the first part," which refers to domestic technology and equipment: if, in the first year, at least 30 percent is produced in Ukraine, in the second, 35, in the third, 40, in the fourth, 45, and in the subsequent year, not less than 50 years. Well that's all they're going to find, it's going to be called joint production, whatever it is, but it's not native technology and equipment. And because it can be distributed 100 percent of the benefits we want. Let's make a differential between this technique and less aid. Let them do it, let them do it, but it'll be different, it'll be different.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u20	An explanation is the same as what I said after the first amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u21	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 3 of Yuri Carmazin. [[16:23:32]] For-28 Correction not supported. Amendment 4 Yuri Karmazin Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u22	Yuri Carmazin. I would like to present a part of the first article 2 in this paper: "Fundamental machinery for the agro-industry complex is a set of industrial enterprises, scientific research, design organizations, educational institutions and other institutions that provide a systematic approach to the creation, testing, production, operation, repair, maintenance and services, market monitoring, training of human resources to ensure the needs of agricultural production, food and manufacturing in technology and equipment, in the total production volume, which is a product for the cultivation, collection, storage and processing of agriculture, is 100 per cent." What was suggested in the first reading is about 50 percent. Please note that if we want to create something, once in Ukraine. We give preferences, and for these preferences, we attract capital so that it doesn't happen the way it does now. Who bought it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u23	Vote number 4 Yuri Karmazin. [[16:25:04]] For-23 Correction not supported. Amendment 5 Yuri Karmazin is included.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u24	The 6th count.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u25	Amendment 7 Yuri Karmazin Microphone. And 8th, and 9th, and 10th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u26	Yuri Carmazin. 7 The amendment refers to where budget allocations are planned. I propose in paragraph 3 of the first part of article 8, section I of article 8, to read: "Budget allocations are aimed at financing such measures in support of the priority development of exclusively domestic construction machinery for the agri-industrial complex." So everything that's being created in us is going to be primarily, and of course, there's going to be tax taxes, as prescribed by the law, 50 percent of the tax standards in force, of the customs congregations. This is a very serious support. With such funds, we can organize everything in Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u27	Yuri Anatolyovich, I'd like to address you with many amendments. Ideology, maybe I'll tell you the concept in general. Because of what we want to do 100% of our own, we are today buying ready-made combines, tractors of foreign production. So let's start with something. The bill is designed to make it possible, in fact, not to waste time and create jobs, to use technology already achieved, and to add all the better things that we have when we start. And then we can catch up. We can create our best technological solutions. We're going to use them and we're going to go 50 and 75 and 100 percent. But today, in the 100 percent drive, we just have 0, and we buy ready agricultural machines, 100 percent-cost combines, paying not only jobs, but everything that's put into this price by a foreign producer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u28	I'm betting on the vote for Yuri Carmazin's 7th amendment. [[16:27:39]] For 20 No correction supported. 8 The Reformation of Yuri Carmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u29	8 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. I propose paragraph 5 of the first part of article 8 to read: "Party, up to 40 percent, State credit for complex equipment for the domestic agro-industry complex exclusively domestic production by agricultural producers and the food and processing industry. I, you know, address you and think, Lord! You're buying everything abroad now. We've offered you microwave plants and everything; the yield is increasing to 50 percent. Why are you letting your own president down? Why aren't you telling him? Why do you say we're all inscrutable, Ukrainian, and so on. I'm convinced that if we don't change this bill, it's going to lobby Chinese and everything else, you know, not Ukrainian. I insist on mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u30	I'm voting on the proposal for amendment No. 8 of Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:29:13]] For-25 Correction not supported. Amendment 9. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u31	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! If something's lobbied, let's be honest that we're lobbying. Let's just not say it's Ukrainian, then define it. Part 2 of article 8 I propose to write in this paper: "In the total volume of government procurement of goods, jobs, services, there is a provision for the supply of basic types of domestic technology and equipment for an agro-industry complex that is purchased at the expense of the State Lease Fund and other sources that are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The cost of the State Lease Fund is fully used for the purchase of exclusively domestic technology and equipment for the agro-industry complex." That's the end of the quote -- we need to encourage production here in Ukraine, and there are these patterns, and it's going to be good, but somehow we believe and believe that something Western is better. I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u32	I'm betting on the vote on Amendment 9 of Yuri Carmazin. [[16:30:44]] For-31 The amendment is not accepted. 10th Amendment, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u33	Yuri Carmazin. Honourable National MPs, the substance of Amendment 10 is to delete the addition of Article 11 with the following wording: "Purchase taxes of 50 per cent of the current tax and customs standards on nodes and aggregates of foreign production, which are not produced in Ukraine and imported into its customs territory by domestic engineering companies for the manufacture of technology and equipment for the agro-industry complex." I emphasize that only then will we produce and buy Ukrainian if we create such preferences for domestic business. In this case, we create preferences not for domestic business, but for other foreign companies, for example. I think they're already defined, the companies under which this law is made, I'm sure of it. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u34	I would like, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, to respond once again to this amendment by Yuri Anatoliyovich, that a bill aimed at stimulating the production of sophisticated agricultural techniques involving such nodes that are not produced in Ukraine is now directed to the very needs of our agricultural producers who are to work and use this technique. And no one's forcing them today, they're for the last penny, for their money, but they're trying to buy a technique that allows them to do farm work at the right time, not to lose so hard-growing bread, grain crops, or sugar beet, or soy, or rape, or anything else, or sunflower. So let's see, by hurting for them, what kind of technique do they want to buy? And we want right now to, at least a little bit lessen and give money the opportunity to spend and create jobs in Ukraine, rather than chasing what you want, a hundred percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u35	I'm betting on the vote of 10 Yuri Karmazin. [[16:33:27]] For-22. Correction rejected. 11 Amendment, Anatoly Seminoga insists? No, it's not. 12th, Eugene Kirilchuk, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 13 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u36	Yuri Carmazin. I had no right to comment when the honourable chairman of the committee was now commenting. Ukrainians want to buy Ukrainian quality technology, and I suggest you go to Belarus. Well, why do they encourage and release theirs? Because they don't make such stupid laws, and they don't go through committees, because that would be an anti-government law. And here I propose, in the first part of article 12, to put it this way: "The credit for the production of domestic machinery and equipment for the domestic agribusiness complex is being made on a general basis and a special lending regime, which provides for a two-year two-year extension of the loan rate of up to 70 per cent of the accounting rate set by the National Bank of Ukraine." End of quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the 13th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin, [[16:35:09]] For-29 The amendment is not accepted. 14 Amendment by Yuri Carmazin, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u38	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to ask the National Deputy of Boguslayev, who is making engines for helicopters all over the world today. Are we capable of making good techniques? Obviously, they're capable if our engines are both buying Russia and Poland is a NATO country and they're putting on arms, and other countries, and everything's fine. And we, you see, can't do agricultural technology that we've produced in colonies before. It's for your reputation. We just don't want to produce Ukrainian and buy Ukrainian. Because of this. I would therefore like to present in this paper: "The sovereign body that introduces the national policy of prioritizing the development of domestic machinery for the agro-industrial complex contributes to the creation by subjects of the forecasting of the market of technology and equipment and services from the technical service for the agro-industry complex." End of quote. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u39	Yes, please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u40	Thank you. I'd like to go back to Yuri Anatoliovich, because these are all his amendments, which, unfortunately, I'm sorry that it's so formed, that I had to reject them. And we're happy to take your two adjustments into account. But I would like to get you to know what language is for agricultural engineering, and Ukraine long ago and in airplane construction and missile construction was in front and in part of the Soviet Union. But Ukraine also worked in agriculture with tractors and combines, which unfortunately were not produced in Ukraine. So the whole agricultural machinery sector today is in a very and very difficult position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u41	I'm betting on the vote of 14 Yuri Karmazin. [[16:37:59]] For-36
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u42	But it's the same. That's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u43	"To" is 36. The amendment is not accepted. Yes, the 15th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u44	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! You and I are adopting a law that affects the spending and income of the State Budget Act of Ukraine, the State Budget. We heard today's disgraceful report from the finance minister, who was developed by the head of the House of Auditors, who said culturally, "not done by income or expense," you didn't respond. And I would suggest in the Final Order that we put it this way: "This law is effective as of January 1, 2012. Gregory Mikhailovich, you just reported and said yes, you hit the stand in this law that the correct offer was from January 1, 2012. But all of a sudden you're writing here that it's rejected. So maybe you should change your mind, don't look at me as an opposition, see what I'm telling you, if you were listening to them, you wouldn't be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u45	I apologize for this law. I want to remind you that this Act is about stimulating machine building -- it's not the Euro-2012 Act, so there's no stand here. It's not about the stalls.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u46	Dear colleagues! I'm betting on the vote of amendment 15 Yuri Karmazin. [[16:39:53]] For-40 No correction supported. Amendment 16 Yuri Carmazin, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u47	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! There is no article 27 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget. I emphasize that these are the same codes as the budget code that needs to be followed. That is why we cannot follow only the law that you want. I understand you have everything: your government, your majority, your president. But let's think about what our Constitution and our laws are. I propose that section III, paragraph 2, of the Final Order, read: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine prepare and submit proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the adoption of legislative acts in accordance with this law for a period of three months. To bring its legal acts into line with this law and to ensure that the central authorities of the executive branch adopt their legislation in accordance with this law." Maybe then you'll understand how you're stimulating not Ukrainian at all, in fact, and in the letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u48	I want to confirm that it is by this bill that the deadline for its entry into force is entirely consistent with the existing legislation, the Budget Code, which clearly states that bills that have some impact on the expenditure or income portion of the budget should be adopted in the process of creating a new budget. It starts with a budget resolution. I think you know very well that we haven't adopted the budget resolution yet. Thus, the adoption of this law is in line with the requirements of the existing legislation and of the Code of Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u49	An amendment shall be put to the vote. Dear colleagues, Paul Zebrovsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u50	Mr. Gregory, well, you're actually a little tricky. Because the adopted law should be in force before the budget process begins and enter into force next year. That is, the law has the right to enter into force, according to the 27th article of the Budget Code, not earlier than January 1, 2012. This is article 27 of the Budget Code. And to adopt, of course, we have this law before the start of the budgeting process.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u51	I think and I want to tell you that there is no wickedness. Rather, it may be necessary to focus on the inattention that is sometimes shown by national MPs who do not hear the report. In my report, I said that the articles on the financial part were being postponed until January 1, 2012. However, the other thing about the introduction into the process of making is that it will be the first to adopt the law. Thus, to the budget resolution, to the Budget Code, we have deferred articles that have financial burdens. And they go into effect on January 1. I'd like you to listen more carefully to the law report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, the amendment 16 of Yuri Carmazin is put to the vote. [[16:43:42]] For-36 The amendment is not accepted. Yes, the amendment was 17 people's deputies, but since January 1, 2011, it has now lost its meaning. Yes, final word, please, Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u53	Thank you for an active discussion, thank you for understanding. I think that this bill will allow us to support our agricultural machinery and facilitate its introduction so that our producers can work on the technology that is produced in Ukraine, for which additional jobs will be created and used materials that are produced in Ukraine. I thank everyone for the active discussion, the support. Please vote as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u54	Eugene Kirilchuk, microphone, please. Faction "BUT" is "Paternity."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u55	As long as there's a committee head in the rostrum there's a situation. You described that all those complex machines and complexes that are not produced in Ukraine and shipped to Ukraine have preferences. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u56	The knots, not the cars, the knots.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u57	That's a negative on Ukraine's budget. It's a reduction in the income part of the budget. But I have one detail. If these complex complexes were set up by Ukrainian manufacturers to produce individual nodes, well, for example, Class is not produced in Ukraine. Ukraine needs it. And before that Class, we have solomoths in Ukraine, other complex knots. Did you put preferences on them for our manufacturers or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u58	I think that's how we'll work it out, dear colleagues. It was before the vote that the question was raised. Find out after considering the bill. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading and generally as a law. At the same time, the General Legal Office's observation is that the bill is subject to rejection as one that is contrary to the legal principles of the functioning of Ukraine's budgetary and tax system. I'll bet on it. This is to take into account the conclusion of the General Legal Authority. I am voting for the first proposal by the adoption committee in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex. [[Registration number 4757]] [[on the use of additional measures for the production of modern competitive agricultural equipment]] [[16:47:04]] For-84 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending article 38 of the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the reformation and issue of a duplicate permit]] [[Registration number 7187]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Grigory Mikolayovich Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u59	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 38 of the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act, designed to implement the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, is being submitted to your consideration. In general, the draft law is aimed at regulating the relationship between the allowing authorities and the operators regarding the granting of permits for exhibitions, fairs, auctions, animal exhibitions, and the settlement of the issue of grounds for the transformation and the issuance of a duplicate permit for the conduct of appropriate measures. During the drafting of the draft for second reading, two proposals came from the Ukrainian, Karmazin and Amazing National Deputies, which the Committee proposes to reject, because the term “dissemination, preventive treatment and laboratory prevention measures” varies within 30 days, depending on the type of animal that is being treated, the type of diagnostic research, etc. All of this is provided in the instructions on prevention and control of related animal diseases and can change in line with international requirements and the epidemic situation in Ukraine and the world. In connection with the presentation, the committee suggests that the bill be adopted in the final edition proposed by the committee. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u60	Yeah, let's get to it. I'm sorry. 1 amendment - Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u61	I don't insist on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u62	Thank you. 2 amendment of the authorship of the People's Deputy Wonder. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, the Chief Legal Authority has no comment on the bill. I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Act amending article 38 of the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act on second reading and generally as a law. [[concerning the reformation and issue of a duplicate permit]] [[Registration number 7187]] Please vote. [[16:50:12]] For 319 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance for Persons Without a Pension and Disabled is being announced for consideration. [[on State Social Assistance for the Care of War Disability]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u63	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. National MP Suškević, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, there is a table adopted at the committee meeting, bill number 4535 on State social assistance for persons who do not have the right to a pension and disabled persons. [[on State Social Assistance for the Care of War Disability]] Unfortunately, in some ways, our legislation's inflexibility is that there are different sizes of pensions in various legislative acts to care for the disabled of war. [[Allowances]] Thus, according to our committee, a draft by national deputy Zibenka Petar Stepanovich, who proposed the harmonization of laws in order to be the same size of aid for the care of war’s disabled. After the proposals were made, the issue was dealt with accordingly, because the bill was aimed at further development and, following further development, we are submitting the bill to the hall accordingly from our committee. Why did I say that in detail? Because five proposals were considered during the revision, three complete and two rejected from the bottom, because those two proposals, which were rejected, refer to the draft of the bill that was sent for further processing, which actually went back to the first one, these two proposals. So they were actually rejected. And so there's a comparative table that takes into account all of the positions right after processing. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, let's talk about the amendments. 1, 2 amendments, which are not included, by the National Vice-Deputy. Are you insisting on her? No, All other amendments are included. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice. That's why I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons Without the Right to Retire and Persons with Disabilities. [[on State Social Assistance for the Care of War Disability]] [[16:53:29]] For 310 The law is passed. I am announcing before the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on improving electricity legislation in the area of the establishment and delimitation of responsibilities of entities]] [[Registration number 4137]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Romanyuk Mikola Prokopovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u65	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On December 2, 2010, by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Bill No. 4131 was sent for re-reading. No amendment was made to the terms set by the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of proposals and amendments to the comparative table of the bill for re-reading the Committee. Therefore, the same table of amendments prepared for the second reading is presented for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and has already been considered with every amendment. The committee proposes to determine the fate of the bill and, for its part, reiterates its proposal to adopt the bill on second reading and in general. Please support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, are there any objections? We have voted on these amendments on more than one occasion. You don't? May I put it to a vote? I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on improving electricity legislation in the area of the establishment and delimitation of responsibilities of entities]] [[Registration number 4131]] Please vote. Moreover, the Chief Legal Authority has no comment on this bill. [[16:55:39]] For 262 The law is passed. Yes, I suggest your opinion, Your Honor, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. [[Registration number 6358]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee, Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u67	This bill amends the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement and Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. It was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and aimed at improving the implementation of the judgements of the European Court of Human Rights. The bill also called for the elimination of some of the problems and inaccuracies that had arisen in the implementation of the Law “On the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights”. The bill was considered by the Justice Committee at its meeting on 22 December 2010. The comparative table for second reading was distributed to the deputies. During the preparation for the second reading of the bill, 8 amendments were tabled, all of which were rejected by the Committee's decision. Thus, on second reading, the Committee supported the Cabinet of Ministers Bill unchanged. I will recall the major changes proposed by the bill. In order to properly implement, increase the time frame for implementation. Actions aimed at enforcing decisions of the European Court of Justice. Publication of the concise content of the decision, dispatch of documents to the executive office. The rule on the need to send the original to the Minustos, copies of the decision by the applicant, is deleted because he receives a decision directly from the European Court of Human Rights and access to the decision is available on the official website of the court. It is incumbent upon the executive authorities to notify the person to the deposit account if they so wish. The grounds for closing the proceedings would not only be the write-off of the compensation, but also the implementation of all the actions is set out in the resolution part of the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. The Legal Office made one point: to increase the time limits in the draft legislation relating to the various actions aimed at the implementation of the European Court's decisions, the publication of the concise content of the decision, the dispatch of documents to the executive office. However, this increase is driven by a practical need, as it is not possible to implement these actions within a three-day period. Please support the Committee's decision and adopt the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u68	Eight amendments to Yuri Carmazin. Let us begin their consideration. First amendment. Yuri Anatolyevich, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u69	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose, in paragraph 7 of the first part of article 1, that the following should be made: "Counsel: (a) a person or group of persons whose decision by the European Court of Human Rights has been rendered in favour of it or with which a friendly settlement has been reached; (b) its representative, the successor; (c) a person whose decision by the European Court of Human Rights defines Ukraine's duty in the international case." [[which]] [[of which]] [[of which]] [[group of persons]] And I didn't see the motive behind this amendment being rejected. I would like to hear a distinguished reporter say that this amendment has been rejected. And I'm addressing you: I also look closely at the next amendment, where the attack on the Ukrainian Parliament and its parliamentary newspaper, Voice of Ukraine, is actually coming back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u71	In the Committee's view, the amendment was rejected as there was no need for clarification. If a decision is rendered in favour of several persons, they will all fall under the term “recipient”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u72	I'm betting on the vote for the amendment of the first Yuri Carmazin. [[17:00:11]] For-34 Correction not supported. The second amendment of Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u73	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that I offer to return to the first. to the previous edition, because I propose that part of the first article 4: "For three days from the date of receipt of the report on the decision on the status of the final representative body prepares an immediate presentation on its official website of the Ministry of Justice in the language of the decision. Next, a concise presentation of the decision to include. ".. I still don't understand what the words "and the Voice of Ukraine" are for, that is, the Voice of Ukraine, where. Parliamentary newspaper, where people always stand. They like to read and read, usually about the implementation of decisions, the normative base, we're shutting it down now, but we're leaving the government courier. Maybe the government courier needs to be removed? Government courier. But "The Voice of Ukraine" for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Amendment No. 2 of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u75	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u76	Yeah, I get it. [[17:01:44]] For-38 The correction is being rejected. The third amendment of Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u77	Yuri Carmazin. I would like you to be aware that Parliament is giving its mandate, that its newspaper continues to attack parliamentaryism, including through this law. Part two of article 4 of this law is proposed in the following wording: "On the first page of this article, a concise presentation of the decision is available immediately after it has been received." This is extremely important for our people, who today, without finding solutions and justice in Ukraine, are searching for it abroad. Information on official websites should be kept permanently. The official website should provide for a free subscription function in order to receive news updates on this website by e-mail or in RSS format, a simple collection of collected information.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, the third amendment of Yuri Carmazin is put to the vote. [[17:03:17]] For-31 Correction not supported. Carmazin's fourth amendment, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u79	Yuri Carmazin. I propose a part of the first article 5 to be edited as follows: "For three days, the representative body shall send an e-mail using an electronic digital signature a concise form of the decision to the retractor, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, all state authorities, officials and other subjects directly involved in the decision-making process, together with an electronic copy of the original text." I'm explaining why it's necessary. This is necessary for everyone to see right away what is the solution, how to respond to it, and how to avoid further human rights violations in Ukraine. Because of this, I'm surprised that we're rejecting these amendments and we still want to work in the old ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u80	The fourth amendment of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[17:04:42]] For-31 The correction is being rejected. Fifth Amendment of Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u81	Yuri Carmazin. I propose a part of the first article seven in the following wording: "For three days from the date of receipt of a notice to the court concerning the acquisition of a decision of status definitively, the authority of representation. ".. And it's still in the text. You understand what I've been asking for three days, not ten days. Over the course of the week, they end up with us making decisions longer and longer. This does not promote the authority of Ukraine and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. Today, we can apply all of this more quickly. So I'm asking questions in three days, not ten days. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u82	I'm betting on the vote on the fifth amendment. [[17:06:04]] For-27 The decision is not made. Correction six, Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u83	Yuri Carmazin. Please add, more faithfully, to make such changes. Part of the first article 8 reads as follows: "Payback to the payee shall be made within three months of the decision of the final status, but not later than the period provided for in the decision." Dear National Deputies! This is about speeding up the implementation of these decisions and thus shaping Ukrainian practice of applying the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. I think it will only contribute to enhancing Ukraine's authority in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u84	I'll take a vote on the 6th amendment. [[17:07:22]] For-25 The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u85	Yuri Carmazin's seventh amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u86	7 the amendment refers to the changes to the part of article 9, which I propose to make in the following edition: "As soon as it is converted to the deposit account of the State Executive Service, the State Executive Service shall report this to the recaller at his specified telephone and address, e-mail, and shall send a written message to the recommended letter describing the deposit." Why is the term "emergency" used? Because man is waiting for reparation. That's why the question is that it's urgent. And all that's supposed to happen is absolutely possible. I also propose that part five of article 9 should be made available as follows: "The claimant for damages incurred by the State of Ukraine as a result of the payment of damages shall be made by the representative body, which shall be liable within six months of the time specified in the part."..
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u87	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 7 Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u88	Please back up! [[17:08:53]] For-30 The correction is being rejected. And the 8th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u89	Yuri Carmazin. I propose a part of the first article of article 14, which reads as follows: "For one month from the date of receipt of the notification of the decision on final status, the representative body shall prepare and send a submission on the use of general measures to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which shall immediately be posted on their official websites." [[Next, Pass]] Because it is a decision to Ukraine. That's why I'm asking the question what should be on the Ukrainian Cabinet's website "immediately" noted. Because the state has to be responsible for its actions. I think that one million 30,000 just called in the children of war who are satisfied is a million 30,000 that can be decisions against Ukraine. I'm addressing this government, I'm addressing President Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u90	I'll bet vote on the 8th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u91	Please back up! [[17:10:24]] For-27 Correction rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. [[Registration number 6358]] At the same time, I emphasize that the Chief Legal Authority has made a number of comments to the law. Yes, please vote. [[17:11:07]] For 270. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System in the Field of Economic Activities. [[on transformation, issue of duplicates, cancellation of documents of a permissive nature]] At the same time, honourable colleagues, the Chief Legal Authority, noted that the text of the bill did not meet the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. I ask the committee to bring the matter into line with Rule 116 of the Rules, and then we will consider it. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you the draft Law amending article 143 of the Ukrainian Family Code. [[regarding the father’s obligation to take the child out of the maternity home]] [[Registration number 6007]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u92	Honorary colleagues, a bill that was adopted on the basis of February 1, 2011, propose that a man who is not married to a woman who has given birth be removed from the maternity home if his fatherhood is established. Three proposals were made. All accounted for. The proposals made by Ukrainian and Dry deputies came to the February 14th Committee and were not considered by the Committee that the Supreme Council of Ukraine had decided to shorten the bill to second reading. And on February 8, the Committee decided to introduce a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a second reading. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded in general that the bill could be adopted in a second reading, taking into account comments. Regarding the comments of the General Legal Department. The change in maintenance is caused by the question, where and why are they taking the child during the first reading of the bill? Secondly, according to article 52 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the State has an obligation to maintain and raise orphans and children deprived of parental care, while legislation does not determine the specific obligation of parents to maintain and raise children in families. As far as the status of a single father is concerned. I want to say that we have not only a single father but a single mother. Ukraine’s Law on State Aid for Families with Children defines those who have the right to help a single mother. The concept of "single mother" is defined only in the Order of the Plenum of the Supreme Court of Ukraine "On the Practice of Courts of Labour Disputes" of 6 November 1992.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to receive a second reading and in general what Catherine Eugene has just reported. The Legal Office made a number of comments to the bill. Which is what you've just been told. I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and as a whole a bill amending article 143 of the Ukrainian Family Code. [[regarding the father’s obligation to take the child out of the maternity home]] [[Registration number 6007]] Please. [[17:14:55]] For 284 The law is passed. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the granting of State social assistance to low-income families and disabled persons is under review. The reporter is Jaroslav Suhi, please. Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, your point is a comparative table and a proposal to adopt the Law, in the second reading and in general, on the basis of social protection for homeless citizens and homeless children. A working group was set up, which was adopted by the bill's author, National Deputy of Ukraine, Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević. The decision to accept was made. The comparative table of 20 proposals made for second reading came from the National Deputies, including 13. I'll explain the deviation right away. There is an amendment, for example, by Valery Mikhailovich Suškević. Under his amendment, three more amendments are the same. We take into account the amendment made by Valery Mikhailovich Suškević, we reject those other amendments that have no relationship since we considered this amendment. Thus, the working group agreed with the drafter's proposal on the deletion proposed earlier, of 25 per cent for the payment to disabled persons from the State social assistance childhood in view of the fact that we today have another rule that regulates and requires the introduction of this rule up to 122 articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code. At its meeting on 12 January 2011, following the work and activities of the working group that examined the bill, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour decided to agree with the text of the comparative table and to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on second reading and in general. Once again, this bill does not have any bearing on the extra part of the budget, nor does it regulate the state policy of providing public social assistance to low-income families and people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Amendment 11, Yuri Carmazin, rejected. Are you insisting on her? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u96	Is that the 11th Amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u97	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u98	11th, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, and you say 12th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u99	11th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u100	I propose part four of article 3 of the State Social Assistance Act to read: "The acquisition of care for a disabled child under the age of 18 is assigned to one of the adoptive parents, the caregiver, the caregiver in case a disabled child needs home care and actually takes care of a disabled child." A single mother, a single parent's allowance for caring for a disabled child is assigned regardless of the fact of the job, removing the words “who do not work, do not learn, save for the obstetric form of education, do not serve, do not take an elected position because they are on leave, including on leave to care for a child until he reaches the age of three, leave in connection with pregnancy and childbirth, leave without pay” because there is a disabled child to be cared for and regardless of the fact that he or she is working or is not working. I'd like to take this amendment into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, I immediately apologize to Yuri Anatolyovich. We're all Ukrainian national deputies here, as equals, we're all wise here, and we all have a lot of experience in life. Please don't insult me. In order to shorten the time for consideration of this bill, I stressed, there are amendments, two amendments by Valery Mikhailovich Suškević, they are your amendments, he made them, we counted them, but there can't be three amendments to the same identical content. If necessary, Vladimir Mikhailovich raises his hand to Valeriy Mikhailovich, he can explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u102	Valeriy Suškevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, I confirm that I personally worked very well with the Committee on Social Policy and Labour as an author, personally with my colleague Suhim. Thank you for your cooperation. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the question is that all the amendments were in agreement with Minfin, but I have just spoken to the Deputy Minister of Finance, we need to agree another position with Minfin not to fail the bill, request to postpone the final vote after the second reading to the next plenary week. Just now, from the Ministry of Finance, colleague Tkalenko knows about this, they asked for a transfer so that the bill would not be overturned.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u104	Let's work it out, dear fellows. If we cancel anything after someone's call, stop. Who from the Cabinet of Ministers gave the order, who? The cabinet of the ministers is large, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, has been called by one of the employees, and we are stepping back. So let's look at the issue as it belongs to the Supreme Council, or else it'll be called to work. Some of the Ministry's employees wanted to put off. Well, that's disrespect for the Supreme Council. Let the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers come and express his thoughts on the matter. Yuri Anatolyovich, we're taking yours off then, aren't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u105	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I thought I'd save time, and it turns out I'm stretching my time out of goodwill. This amendment and the Javorowski amendment are part of the amendment by Valery Mikhailovich Suškević, which is why we wrote. We counted it, but we wrote the first amendment of the bill by Valery Mikhailovich Suškević. It's included in Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u106	Then, dear colleagues, once again we say that the amendment of Yuri Karmazin 11 is included in the 10th amendment of colleague Suškević. There's no need to vote. Now for the amendment of the next Yuri Carmazin 15. Is it also included in another amendment or not? Jaroslav Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u107	Yuri Anatoliyovich, this is the same amendment made by Suškević, which refers to the provision of assistance to disabled persons who are serving sentences at places of deprivation. Is this the same repair? So please don't insist on her because she doesn't make sense right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u108	Well, if she doesn't insist, and she's included, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, the other amendments are already under consideration. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, I request everyone. Once again, you know very well that in the Committee on Social Policy and Labour most members of the Party of Regions. Bills that would go in such a way that we either vote, and then we veto -- we don't miss, because bills that can be rejected, because they put too much pressure on the budget we reject. The bill is in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, and it regulates the state aid system for poor families and disabled people. And one more thing I want to remind you about the pension system. We have a pension, a separate kind of pension, which is called a disability pension. Therefore, this bill regulates our activity. I urge you all to vote for him in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u110	Dear colleagues! The Chief Legal Authority does not have any comments to this bill, so we have every reason to put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft. What? Take down the vote. Please, Suškevich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u111	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for considering my request. Dear colleagues, Bill, colleague Suhi will confirm that he worked with two Minfin employees in the working group and in the committee. There were no comments. The point is that we vote in favour of helping the first group A disabled: no legs, no hands, and no eyes. Please vote, I beg you to adopt this law in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, in general, as a bill of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the granting of State social assistance to low-income families and disabled persons. [[Registration number 2159]] Please vote. There's a vote coming. [[17:24:12]] For 122 The decision is not taken. The factions. Regional Party – 6, "BUT – Fatherland" – 41, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 26, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, "The People's Party – 5, "Afterfaction" – 4. Dear colleagues, for a second read, it's for us to take him down and not accept him. Let's either accept it or not accept it at all. What will the second do? Do you want us to seal off the work of the Supreme Council? I'll put it to the vote again: a return to this bill. Wait a minute! On the return to the draft bill, registration number 2159. [[17:25:13]] For 316 We're back. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we receive a second reading as a whole. The principal legal administration has no comments. We've already discussed this, we've come back, we've created a working group. That's why I'm voting again. If not, the bill will be rejected. I am voting on the proposal: the adoption of a second reading and generally as a bill of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the granting of State social assistance to low-income families and persons with disabilities. [[Registration number 2159]] Please vote. [[17:26:03]] For 323 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[on the elimination of the requirement to make a warning only in WTO member countries]] [[Registration number 6192-d]] The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u113	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, your point of view is proposed for a second reading of the draft Law amending the second part of the Insurance Act, which deals with the deletion of the requirement to make the alarm only in the WTO countries, under registration number 6192. The Committee on Finance and Banking received only one amendment from the National MP, which was included and the bill itself contains only two standards. The first rule concerning the lifting of the ban on insurance in countries that are not members of the WTO and the second is to clarify the rule on the non-inclusion requirement of the State where the non-insured non-resident is registered before the list of offshore zones. In view of the above, the committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the bill in its second reading. I would also like to point out that there are no comments from the legal authorities. In view of what was discussed in the first reading, I would like to remind you that there have been some reflections on tax evasion and on the fact that we have adopted the Tax Code, which in the transitional positions for this year applies that standard to the existing one, that is three percent of the total gross turnover of the insurance company, and that next year all insurance companies will work for the only form of payment of taxes. Therefore, there will be no motivation for tax evasion. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u114	Arzhivetin Stanislav, please, before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, we really need to support this amendment because we are doing this for Russia, which is not yet in the WTO, and there are many of our reinsurers, so, of course, in order to improve Russia's trade relations, Ukraine needs to support it. And also, honourable national MPs, I'd like to apologize to you, but to say a little bit off the subject, because 72 years ago, it was at this very moment that an independent Ukrainian state of Carpathian Ukraine was declared to be Ukrainian, the color of the State Flag is blue and yellow, the State Herb is a trident, the State Hymn has not yet died in Ukraine. It was the fifth attempt in the past century to declare the independence of the Ukrainian State. I apologize again and welcome all the Ukrainians to this event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a second reading proposal and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending the article of the Ukrainian Insurance Act, registration number 6192-d. [[on the elimination of the requirement to make the alarm only in the WTO member countries]] [[17:29:58]] For 252 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the first reading of the bill. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on public procurement, registration number 7532, 7532-1. Reporters: Deputy Minister of Economy Sukhomlin Alexander Anatoliyovich, National Deputy of Ukraine Semerak Ostap Mihajlovich and co-rapporteur, Head of Committee on Economic Policy Plitników Aleksy Vitaliyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? If it's too short. There's an offer, I'm putting it to a vote. The offer was, I'll put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] They're so alternative. Two reports, then there will be a discussion. [[17:30:58]] For 202 Decision taken. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u117	Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, good afternoon, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on public procurement, registration number 7532. The bill provides, firstly, for the purpose of taking into account proposals made by executive authorities and public procurement entities to simplify the application of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement to amend paragraphs 4 and 10 of the first article 10, which define the notion of "public funds and customers" and the legal persons or their associations who make industrial production of agriculture, commercial activities do not fall within the scope of the law. The other one. Simplify the procurement procedure with one participant, eliminating the need to maintain the approval of the authorized authority in the field of public procurement. Third. Set a comprehensive list of cases in which the essential terms of the purchase contract can be changed. Four. Allow the purchase contract to continue its validity at no more than 20 percent of the cost. This is especially important at the beginning of the year. Fifth. Establish the possibility of purchasing in framework contracts with one or more parties to a buy-in procedure that does not exceed 4 years and that sets out the basic conditions of this agreement for the conclusion of appropriate purchase contracts during the term of the framework agreement. [[by this framework agreement]] Thus, the proposed draft law would simplify the order of procurement by domestic industrial enterprises, which would increase their competitiveness. In view of the fact that some positions have already been adopted at the time of consideration, and in view of the fact that the European Union has taken great note of this law, I ask that it be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u118	Thank you, sit down, please. Ostap Mikhailovich Semerak for an alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u119	Semerak, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues! Your opinion is on an alternative bill submitted by the government. Why did we introduce an alternative bill? The situation is very simple, a bill proposed by the government is expanding the ability to use government funds in a corrupt and unscheduled manner. Our bill is aimed at closing this hole in the state budget and directing these costs, which will be spent from the state budget, to purchase through clear transparent procedures. In fact, I am surprised that the government today, introducing a bill, is avoiding other things where they hide and make it impossible for the public and the media to access information: who are they buying, at what costs, and why? Unfortunately, there is not enough time and I have to break the report, but I have to tell you that my bill proposes to amend two laws. The first law is about public procurement. And limit the extension of this law to the purchases that are taking place to finance the state programme in Euro-2012. The second law to be amended is the Act on the organisation of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. And there are a lot of questions for me about the financing of the state-of-the-art Euro-2012 programme. So I would like to focus on that. Through this program, the government is making a lot of comments and funding for things that have absolutely nothing to do with Euro-2012. Today's the minister of finance, reporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u120	Please, mike, finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u121	Today, the finance minister, reporting on the 2010 budget and 2011 plans, said that the government plans to spend 18 billion dollars on Euro funding in 2011. Dear colleagues, if you count these 18 billion dollars for a minimum pension, you should be told that another minimum pension could be paid to another two million people over the course of the year. Last year, some 14 billion dollars were spent on financing the Euro2012. Last year's Euro-2012 government programme, which is being implemented without any tenders, currently in force, is building helipads in Canoe. Incomprehensible costs are being spent, and the government still cannot make clear what amounts are being spent on these things. Costs are spent in sums commensurate with Lanos cars for the financing of benches.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u122	Thank you. Time's up. Well, please make an agreement on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u123	So, dear fellows, my bill proposes this. It's spending money from the state budget to cover. I propose to support my bill in the first reading and later in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u124	Thank you. Yes, Alexy Vitaliovich Plonikov of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u125	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 11 January 2011, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on State Procurement, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[7532]] The bill proposes to amend the law to simplify the procurement of enterprises, clarify the grounds for applying the procurement procedures to one participant, establish a new mechanism for applying the procurement procedures to one participant, under which there is no need to obtain the consent of the authorized authority in the area of public procurement, establish a comprehensive list of cases where the essential terms of the purchase contract may be changed, allow the possibility of the contract to continue to operate at a maximum of 20 per cent or so. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded on January 11 that the first reading of the bill could be adopted as a basis. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on public procurement, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, to be adopted as a basis. With regard to another bill, Ukraine’s draft law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts on public procurement was registered by Ukraine’s national deputies Soboljev and Semerak on January 13, 2011. [[7532-1]] The committee did not consider it, since on January 11, a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was considered. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council on the one hand seems to agree with the drafters. On the other hand, it is appropriate to draw an expert conclusion from the government. The committee has reached the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers for the draft bill, which states that the draft law is not supported. This is explained by the fact that the exclusion from the legislative provisions on the specificity of purchases for the Euro-2012 needs will lead to a breakdown of the timetables for the preparation of infrastructure objects and a threat to the championship itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u126	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u127	According to the government, the current rules on the specificity of procurement for the needs of the championship do not conflict with the principles of public procurement as defined in article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement. So the committee supported the government bill and all of this goes into the session hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Eugene Suslov, "BUT is the Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u129	I'd like a word with Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u130	Mikola Tomenko, please. Catherine Samuelnko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u131	Dear colleagues, I'm worried I don't see any major fighters here with the solicitation mafia. I just remember a few years ago, we fought together against a so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called mob. And when these people aren't here today, I'm worried. Since this approach, when we adopt this government bill, we won't know what's going on at all, we haven't been in the worst of times. So imagine, we are now, the government is proposing that we cancel the publication of the Procurement Report. So let's actually write that in this law. Let's identify one company for which tenders are to be made, and put a responsible man in charge who's going to win this money. Well, this is a disgrace to all the international structures that have taught us over the last five years to fight corruption. And the government is now asking us not to even inform us what ended the purchase of one performer. Second position. It is proposed that the government be given the opportunity to conduct a procurement procedure for one participant with special economic, social circumstances. But every day we have special social and economic conditions. Today, too, they are special, and tomorrow they are special. Is that what the bill says? Third position. It's about the situation. This is the Secretary of Defense who's about to appear and will report. I get it, it's a tough story today with the food purchases we have in the army. Well, you have to understand clearly, here comes a discussion for a few months, which means why and what happened with the provision of food for the army. If we're helping soldiers, I'm in favour of making concessions. Well, if we're helping fight between a few, a few structures that are looking for market access, a fantastic budget to buy food from the Ministry of Defense, that's a completely different story. Well, finally, in principle, the good idea, the only one I'm willing to support, is to simplify the procurement procedure for our national collectives that are performing in international competitions. Because they only have to use certified things. But even this good idea, in our practical circumstances, turns into absurd things. I started communicating with our teams right now, and it turns out that the officials of the Ministry of Education, now, science, youth and sports have made such a structure that tickets can only be purchased in one company and they are the most expensive tickets in Ukraine. I mean, on the one hand, it's like we're helping athletes, on the other hand, it's increasing. Now our biotlon collection, which showed a brilliant result, has been purchased by the Ministry four times more expensive than in the market, and these bullets don't shoot in the street, they can't shoot in the street. So I think even this story needs a sufficiently responsible attitude. So I think that the government, when it went to lobbyist influences, made a serious mistake, because the bill actually nullifies a democratic, transparent procurement procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u132	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u133	Thanks for the applause. Perfection really has no limits. Their comments were correct. But I would like to say that we don't have to speculate, especially on Euro-2012, because this is the image of our state. And the previous government submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a law every month, the rulings that applied to the Euro-2012. And the Cabmines have changed, and the view is changing. Then it was appropriate, now it's no good. Of course, with regard to this government law, it needs to be supported, so almost all large businesses that use budget money and not just budget money are now blocked. An example is our Herson factory, the Palace, which stands there and can't even use the money that investors invest because we're guilty, and because we're looking at the bill very late. And we have these factories that are not alone. And, indeed, investment has slowed down to our nation and to the fact that we have put the bill in order many times and then called it off. So in this context, I would like to address everyone, let's no longer engage in speculation and change our position from who we are today, or opposition, or most, let's unlock this question and I suggest we accept it in the first reading and in the short term prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u134	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u135	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to a few positions that I've been paying attention to, including the Vice-President of the Supreme Council, Mikola Tomenko. I'd like you to see what we're doing. And I would like you not to read my opinion, my opinion is that of opposition. And if you don't listen to the opposition today, that's exactly why the power that you don't listen to is gone. That's why things like this are bad in the state. And in our time, we listened to you. I'd like to show you those novels you're introducing. You're making changes to the Code of Masters and you're writing, you're proposing the words "Determined by the Law of Ukraine on State Procurement" to replace the words "in order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." What does the science and science department think about that? And she thinks so, quote, "This procedure has become uncertain that in our view it can contribute to the deepening of corruption in local self-government." But it's obvious that these are corrupt positions, obviously. Therefore, do not be hasty to shorten your deadlines. I understand you're all you can go through, but if you want to go through with it. The second question. I'd like you to see what you're doing with administrative legislation. So we're just going to go into domestic law. Now the Code of Administrative Offence. 38. An article in the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offence is the norm of general action, of the general part, and there you suggest what to do, 3 months and, I mean, the term of attraction, and 2 years if the offence is established. These terms are far greater than even in comparison with corruption. Well, what are you doing? And for just one piece of administrative misconduct? Is that a serious approach? That's what.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u136	Yes, Jaroslav Suhi, please. Well, I'm being blamed. I just turned off the microphone for the Communist faction. Well, I won't make an exception for others. Yuri Anatolyevich, well, you'll understand. I've read all of this. Please, 1 minute, Jaroslav Suchy from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u137	Dear colleagues! This bill was written by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Then the government, in exchange for ours, passed its bill. What was that all about? Where did this idea come from? The new AN-148 has 20 orders. He has to buy 40 engines. Where? One factory produces these engines. No, he has to announce them at the competition. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no helicopters, no helicopters, no helicopters, no more Lanos. This is about strategically important businesses that can buy just as much as they do. You don't know where, I'm not going to tell you, but "The Ring" for what was produced in Ukraine can only be purchased at one factory, no one manufactures them anymore. So I'm proposing to support the government bill. And in paragraph 4 of the first part of article 1, the word "costs of the national material reserve, the costs of the agrarian fund" is deleted, and the first part is added by a new paragraph of that content, and I can pass it on to the committee, these observations and suggestions that I would have to make here, but I don't have time, because I only have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u138	Question completed. Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote the first government bill according to registration. In the event of its adoption I ask and propose a committee, I think you will support, there are positions that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine must be deleted. In particular, there is a transfer of powers to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to regulate issues that are governed solely by legislation. By the way, it's about the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So once again, if you accept it in the first reading of the committee's request, you take these circumstances into account. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on public procurement issues. [[Registration number 7532]] Please vote. [[17:50:54]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you. The commission? Yeah. Dear colleagues, we have two weeks' work on the committees and among the voters, that's enough. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our evening session for 15 minutes, that is, 18 hours 15 minutes. At your request. A draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens is under consideration. [[on how to process travel documents abroad]] The rapporteur is the first Deputy Foreign Minister Ruslan Demchenko. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Taras Cnerovil. At the request of the committee, I put to the vote a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:52:06]] For 213 Decision taken. Please, Ruslan Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u139	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act "On order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens". As of today, the current law provides for the provision of passports for Ukrainian citizens to travel abroad to foreign diplomatic institutions in Ukraine only for Ukrainian citizens who are permanently resident, who are in a long-term assignment and training, internships, work abroad or are in treatment. At the same time, Ukrainian citizens who live abroad for other reasons are deprived of the right to be documented by a Ukrainian citizen’s passport. In this connection, we propose a third part of the first part of article 4 of the law to read: "Ukrainian citizens who live permanently or temporarily abroad and who have reached the age of 16." The proposed change will help to ensure the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens who are outside it, including the right to document passports, will be granted to all Ukrainian citizens who are legally residing abroad. The implementation of the law will not require additional material and other costs from the State Budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u140	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Taras Cranville, committee decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u141	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered the issue – and recommended, I mean, unanimously recommended that the bill be supported. This bill is designed to facilitate conditions for Ukrainian citizens. What is essential, as I think, is our task. For some reason or another, our citizens may be detained abroad by circumstances that are not clearly defined in the exclusive list of laws in force today. They have problems either in connection with the loss of a passport or in connection with the need to continue, the replacement of a complete passport, and so on, to obtain a new passport. Today they must either switch to illegal status, or via the embassy, by getting help there, say, on the temporary use of, well, a document that replaces a passport, or a short extension of passport activity, return to Ukraine, form here the whole procedure of a new passport and then go back to the same place where they may be from those or other circumstances. The bill proposes simplifying the system and bringing the activities of our consular institutions to the same subject as they were originally designed to provide for the needs of Ukrainian citizens and foreigners, primarily Ukrainian citizens. The bill is incredibly simple, and the words "always live, stay in a long-term assignment, study, internship, contract or treatment abroad" are suggested to be replaced by a very short formulation: "who live permanently or temporarily abroad." And so our committee asks you, under these circumstances, to vote, not on the first reading procedure, but on the whole. As a result of article 116 of the Rules, we cannot physically add anything, and there is nothing to reduce. This law in the case of its entry into force will, indeed, be beneficial for all. So please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if there are no objections to the MPs, put the vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign in. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions, then Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u143	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, of course the bill must be supported because it concerns a large part of our citizens who, for some reason or other, are forced to be at work or in other matters abroad. And you know that this statistic is very scary, in just one Italy more than one million of our citizens are forced to look for a job or to look for opportunities to make money to support their family. I certainly think the Hall will support this bill. And I took the floor to draw the attention of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which in view of the fact that we have a situation that continues to emigrate, our work emigration abroad, especially in summer, in the summer of our annual period, so to speak, I point out that we need to deepen the issue of protecting the interests of all citizens abroad: it is social, it is also pensionable, it is both fear and other issues. And finally today, the first bill, which is really meant to make it easier to get the documents for some reason that citizens in Ukraine need to get them back or get them back. So I call on you to support this bill in the first and the whole reading, and on the other hand, I point out that we need to look very carefully at the issue of our labour immigration and the protection of the interests of our citizens who are abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u144	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party, next will be Sergey Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u145	Honorary colleagues, part three of article 25 of the Constitution of Ukraine, guarantee the protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens who are abroad. In practice, the situation is not only when a late visa, it is self-inflicted, but also, as a colleague rightly pointed out, when children are with our so-called parents, unfortunately, they are using the word "gastarbaiters," because of their travel credentials. And when it comes to 16 years of age, they stay out of the legal field. I agree with my colleague Smitsuh that any state is interested in making its citizens, who have been in another country for some reason, legalized. We actually get that in Consular accounting, and in general, somewhere registered and in Consular institutions, I don't know, the tenth or the hundredth part of those people who are actually living abroad. And I think it's worth noting that this has not been said by the Foreign Ministry that this bill, the implementation of it, will allow Ukraine's government budget to be filled in annually by an estimated 2.5 million dollars a year. On account of the fact that these passports will be formed in diplomatic overseas institutions in Ukraine. But I would like to draw attention to the position expressed by the very subject of the legislative initiative. The explanatory note, which states that the proposed changes are considered appropriate as of 1 January 2012, following the completion of the procedure for the integration and documentation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Foreign Graduates of Ukraine into the state information system for the registration of natural persons. That is, so that we don't slip out this norm, which will lead to the fact that this bill won't work. In general, the faction of the People's Party supports this bill, and in general is ready to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u146	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u147	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I really understand the situation that there is and I would like to bring about a completely different problem that exists in the state. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear government officials! Today, we have a vast array of people who could not, could not or could not for other reasons form Ukrainian citizenship. And today there is a large proportion of Ukrainian citizens who have lived in Ukraine for many years, have given birth to children here, have become many children, but still cannot form a passport from a Ukrainian citizen. There are our citizens who have served in the military, who have worked in the Far North, and there is also today a huge problem in how to acquire Ukrainian citizenship, because they were unable to do so in time. Perhaps the way out is one, first, and in an interstate way by making interstate agreements to simplify this procedure, to monitor how many people there are, and finally to solve this very painful problem for many families of the former multinational Soviet Union. Because those who live in Ukraine are now, in fact, citizens of Ukraine, without a passport, cannot today receive many of the social and other guarantees provided by Ukraine's law that are there. And they're in their territory today, in fact, as citizens, they can't get everything that gives citizenship to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u148	Finish up, please. Sergei Shevchuk, one minute. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u149	Thank you. The Timoshenko-Batychina bloc will support this bill because it protects the rights of our Ukrainian citizens abroad. I would like to remind you that it is these citizens who have recently invested more in Ukraine than all foreign investors combined. Since foreign investors have recently been wary of the corruption that is taking place in Ukraine, the flow of investment is shrinking. And the flow of investments from Ukrainian wage earners to their Fatherland is increasing every year, and it is now estimated at between $7 billion and $10 billion. Clearly, their fate needs to be alleviated. And we'll support it. At the same time, we are warning against thoughtless plans: granting visa-free regimes to states like Turkey, or Hong Kong, China, which is being proposed by today’s authorities, as this will lead to an uncontrolled flow of migrants into our land.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u150	Ruslan Knyazevich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u151	Dear colleagues, well, when Taras Cnerwell offered not to discuss it, I was hoping we wouldn't discuss it, because there's nothing to discuss here. But as a result of the discussion, I decided to take the floor because it was said that it had nothing to do with this law. In fact, this law is very simple. He says that in this situation, when a person is not only constantly but also temporarily abroad. And somehow that happened for some reason, including force majeure. We have a situation, for example, in Japan, where a person, well, just lost his passport. There's something else that's happened. In these cases, when our people take their passports and forcefully hold them back. For this case, these laws are also written. He is temporarily abroad and has the right to turn to him, not just the one who is legally permanently present and has the appropriate information that he is legally present there. And here you are, bringing the kids in. But the children are in the law, and they have been in the law, and they have nothing to do with this change that is being regulated. So I ask you to put it to a vote and I support the committee's proposal on behalf of the faction that there's nothing to take for second reading. In general, this question must be resolved once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of the committee's proposal to adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law. Is there no warning on this? I am voting on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens. [[on how to process travel documents abroad]] [[Registration number 7558]] Please vote. [[6:05:25]] For 289 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, please. Let's take a very short look at another law, but it's already the southern minister of defense present at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a bill amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. [[on the order in which medical devices are imported into Ukraine]] [[Registration number7510]] So let's think about it in a simplified way. Please vote. In summary, please vote. [[18:06:04]] For 208 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Minister of Defence Mikhailo Bronislavovich Ježel. Please. And it's from the Samofal Committee, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u153	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! To your attention, a draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices is being submitted. [[Registration number7510]] Amendments to the law were designed to regulate imports into Ukraine of unregistered medical supplies during international studies and their transit into Ukraine. In order to address the problem, it is necessary to amend the law, which allows legal reasons to import medical supplies into Ukraine while conducting international training in Ukraine and transiting foreign subdivisions in Ukraine. The comments that were made during the agreed draft law are taken fully into account. The implementation of the law does not require additional financial costs. On February 16, 2011, the bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health and recommended that it be adopted as a basis for the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u154	Thank you, Mikhailo Bronislavovich. Have a seat, please. Gennady Samofal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u155	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Health Committee considered the proposed bill at its meeting and unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill on first reading. But there are two comments. The first observation relates to the question that the possibility of unregistered medicines that may be imported into Ukraine to provide medical care to units of the armed forces of other States, drugs containing narcotics and psychotropic substances is not taken into account. The circulation of such preparations is regulated by special legislation and therefore requires separate authorization. And second point. This would be useful to take into account the possibility of importing unregistered medicines necessary for the medical care of foreign participants in international sporting events and other international events in Ukraine. In our view, such drugs could be imported under the conditions of the State registration of these drugs in the country that imports them. All of this will prevent imports into Ukraine, under the form of medicines for the medical provision of units of the armed forces of other States or in other exceptional cases of narcotics and psychotropic substances, and any other substances that are not drugs. The decision of the Health Committee is in the Supreme Council. We'd like to be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u156	Dear colleagues! Yes, have a seat, please. I would also ask the committee to read the bill carefully. The bill says "medical security without the right to implement." This is the first time. This is if foreign units are present during the course of their studies, they are starting medications. Second of all, they don't do sports.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u157	That's clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u158	Is there a need to discuss this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u159	None. Dear colleagues, there is a note, I ask your attention, is the observation of our scientific and expert management of this content: the words "foreign units" should be replaced by the generally accepted term "arms of other states." Because this terminology is used in the law on the order of admission and conditions of residence in the territory of Ukraine of the Armed Forces of other States.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-15-m1.u160	It is to make such clarifications and to adopt this law as a whole. In view of this clarification, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis and as a whole the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. [[Registration number7510]] Please vote. [[18:10:46]] For 277 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are no longer able to work, since it has been nearly 15 minutes. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we continue the sessions, the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by reviewing the bills proposed by the opposition. In case we have free time, we will then move on to the drafts that were scheduled for Tuesday, but first to consider all the issues proposed by the opposition.
