ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:02]] Cards were registered in the 366 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear National Deputies, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputy Olga Gerasimük. Please welcome our colleague and wish her good luck. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on 20 October 2011. Ten questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 5 laws and 20 regulations were passed, and one bill and draft decree were rejected. Honourable National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is represented by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the present members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the exception of those on board. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to "the hour of questions to the government," we need to adopt a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the powers of the Ukrainian People's Deputies be suspended for the term. Honourable National Deputies, National Deputy of Ukraine Polishchuk, addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the statement: "In accordance with article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Act on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine," I declare that the National Deputy of Ukraine is to be appointed. The factions of the People's Party. I think that's an example of not yelling, if there's a desire, to make the right decision, rather than telling how bad the Supreme Council is. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has considered the application, has taken into account the motivation and justification of the national MP, and is a draft of the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Polishchuk Oleg Viktorovich. Please vote. [[10:03:43]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, allow me to thank Oleg Viktorovich on your behalf for our joint fruitful work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and for having made the right decision for him to focus on his practical work. Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the Faction "BUT" – "The Fatherland", the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" in accordance with the Rules requires a recess to hold a consultation, and they are ready to make a statement now. Please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u2	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! Today, 78 days go by for our leader, Yulia Timoshenko, to be held in prison. At first it was illegal and without any reason thrown away for playing, and today it's being held in the SSO because of a falsified case and the same false judgment of the court. With the sentence of Julia Timoshenko, Ukraine has completed the construction of a repressive system, where every force organ, the Henprocurator, courts, and militia have a clear role to play. In our country, the steel trinity system is fully resuscitated and functioning, and the police, prosecutors and courts are the main actors, and after the last criminal case against Timoshenko, the Ukrainian Security Service has joined. The Public Prosecutor’s Office quickly fabricates criminal cases on the basis of false, fingertips of evidence, and the courts quickly pass the necessary sentences. And the police, especially the special forces, today have finally been requalified to fight against disagreeable MPs, businessmen, Ukrainian citizens who have the courage to stand up for their dignity. All those who monitored the events of October 11, this year during the sentence of Julia Timoshenko had the opportunity to observe how thousands of militia representatives were prevented from carrying out their constitutional duties to the Ukrainian National Deputies. At the same time, the special forces in full combat ammunition, which is several times larger than the number of peaceful demonstrators, have been brutally beaten by the elderly to death by militia buses and thrown through a steel fence. At the same time, the greatest concern is that the police are feeling complete impunity. What's more, in my face personally, a great militia chief with a colonel's drive, but unfortunately, he still had a flag on his head, and he said, "If I let one of the people's deputies into the Castle Court, Mohilov will rip my head off." [[These are said not by officers, but by officers.]] Head, that's correct. That is why we ask Mr. Mogilov to give clear and unambiguous answers: On what basis were citizens’ rights to peaceful demonstrations violated? Why were people’s deputies prevented from exercising their legal powers? And most importantly, where were the weapons for hundreds of Special Forces fighters storming the homes of our colleague Suslov, and for the arrest of particularly dangerous killers in Odessa, unarmed fighters? But before Mr. Mogilov starts answering, I want to say the following. First of all, it is an honor to stand before the Ukrainian people at this place behind this rostrum, and it must be earned by its work. Unfortunately, today, Mr. Mohilov, we cannot present this opportunity to you, because we are the 11th deputies behind the fence in front of your subjects at your command. So please answer your questions and give your speech outside the fence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 37 of the Ukrainian Law, "On the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine ", an hour of questions to the Government takes place on Friday. Representatives of the deputy factions made a proposal: during the "hour of questions to the government" to hear information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the enforcement by law enforcement authorities of the status of the Ukrainian national deputy. Deputies: The Party of the Regions, the Yulia Tymoshenko-Batakushina, the “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” bloc, the Communist Party of Ukraine and the parliamentary group “Reforms for the Future”, based on part six of article 229 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, were informed in advance in writing by the Cabinet of Ministers about the questions to be asked during the "hour of questions to the Government". Honourable National MPs, at the suggestion of the BUT factions, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” were determined to answer the questions of the National Deputies will be Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Anatoly Volodymyrovich Mohilov. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine define such an order of "hours of questions to the Government." When asked about the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from the deputy factions, groups and responses, up to 30 minutes; when asked about the questions of members of the Cabinet of Ministers, within 30 minutes. It is suggested that you take one minute to form questions and two minutes to answer questions. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now such a conflict, not provided for by the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that part of the MPs are offering to report, not from the rostrum, but from the place. I think in that case there's the right of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Cabinet of Ministers to decide. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, if the question concerns violations of the Constitution, it is necessary for a person on the rostrum to answer these questions before the whole of Ukraine. And if you have any other problems, let's talk about it. If we violate the Rules on the one hand and then demand that someone obey the laws, we are obviously. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, we are, obviously. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. Please! [[B in m in s a l in]] So we're obviously mutually demonstrating practices, the possibility of violating any rules and regulations. It all starts with a small one and ends with a big one. So I propose and I ask: let's ask questions, let's argue our case, not a demonstration on the one hand and on the other hand of some non-acceptance of the situation. Let's find a reasonable solution. We need the content of the problem, the resolution of this issue, the punishment of those who break the laws, or whether we need a demonstration of an exclusive position in relation to each other. I don't think we need that. Please, I ask the factions in one minute to express their position on this matter. Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I think that all the processes that we have in the State begin, first of all, from how we treat each other and how we show it with respect or disrespect throughout the country. This is what is happening today, not within any moral framework. Because our distinguished colleagues themselves invited government representatives to ask questions and get answers, not to humiliate someone. And putting a demarche in the way that the U.S.W.T. does in order to just shine, it's unethical. Therefore, our faction categorically condemns such approaches. And we ask the Government then to act adequately to what the faction offers them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u5	Who's there, Valery Kamchatny, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Parliamentary Group Reforms for the Future, Valerius Kamchatny. We would like to suggest to all of our colleagues that we refrain now from taking steps that interfere with politics. And I would like to remind you that there are three national deputies in our group who are members of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the activities of the Supreme Council. That is why we urge the Rules to act in the same way as the Rules do. And we must show respect for the law and, above all, for the Rules as the basic Constitution of our parliamentary life.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! I ask us once again to discuss the situation so that we can have such a healthy constructive attitude. You have suggested, Your Honor, that you listen to the Minister of Internal Affairs in recent events and in relation to the activities of the law enforcement agencies, especially the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Such a decision was made. A written question is asked. Plus, I think the MPs have a lot of direct questions to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Or let's take a look at this question, or I'll offer the Cabinet of Ministers if they agree to this situation and to this kind of communication, please. If I don't, I'm going to have to take it off the table. We're going to lose our respectable colleagues, our opportunity to put those questions together in principle, and we're going to be able to sound the answers. I think it doesn't just take so much for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for the deputies, it's necessary for society to see and know and evaluate people. So I would ask here, let's find a compromise. Ivan Kirilenko. Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in our continuing activity in the last months we have not addressed anyone, and today you will read the parliamentary questions. We don't know who to turn to anymore. Sorry, such injustices, such cynicism, such insolence in relation to the people who are now standing near the rostrum, who identify what is called opposition and other viewpoints in Ukraine. Whoever was at the trial of the 11th number made it clear that we were not released into the court because we had the right as an MP, as citizens of Ukraine, we were not allowed into the court. And after Andrew Kožemiakin led this entire delegation, he went to the chief of the CDD, Kyiv, and he swore that at least in court proceedings he would be executed. We're not running. We told you that they're trampling on the Supreme Council, wiping their legs, wiping their bloody sticks. The 11 figures have wiped out blood clots against the Supreme Council. We're not getting off the rostrum. Answer from the government's bed. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u9	Dear National Deputies! I think we'll do this one minute. Please, Peter Cibenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u10	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! In the faction of the Ukrainian Company, as in any of the national deputies in this room, there are questions to the Minister of Internal Affairs. We wanted to ask them and get answers. But I can see that such a desire is far from commonplace. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there's a precedent when, on other grounds, you've cancelled the "government hour," so if we see that our colleagues who initiated the government's hour with this agenda don't want that, then you have every reason to decide today to transfer this day to another date, because we see that our colleagues show not understanding, but demonstrating, give in to the word, blackmail. That's not how compromise is sought. So I'm going to propose, on behalf of the faction, that we carry this government hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u11	Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! What we need to discuss about the status and treatment of the MP is clear. Let's hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and talk, and we'll deal with this particular parliamentary environment. Because it's never been like this before when people are working in Parliament and blowing this Parliament, blowing themselves up. And then we want to be respected by other institutions to be respected by the police. We have not learned to respect ourselves; we do not respect Ukraine. One minute, shut up! You're losing your chance to keep your mouth shut. Dear colleagues! So let's think about it this way. When we offer to consider the matter, we consider it, present all the claims, and make the appropriate decisions. We have already established a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate the events of August 24th. We're not going to be satisfied with the information that needs to be heard today, let's initiate a discussion of this issue, but let's be the only ones in this. And if you want to demonstrate corporate solidarity and incompetence where it needs to be demonstrated. And under such circumstances, I ask you, dear colleagues, please! And now, given the situation that has arisen, I'm going to ask you whether the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be in charge of the situation to conduct an hour of questions to the government. You make a decision, we'll make a decision. You will not accept, we thank the cabinet members for coming to the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. I'm voting on a proposal whether the Supreme Council agrees, under such circumstances, to consider the issue of "Year of Questions to the Government." Please be sure. [[10:19:33]] For-22. The decision is not taken. I thank the cabinet members for taking part in the meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Rules, it takes 30 minutes on Friday to announce parliamentary requests. Allow me to announce the requests of the people's deputies who have come to the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: Eugene Kzarow to the President of Ukraine on the non-recognition of the Peace Street by the name of the battalion "Nakhtigal", which was created by Aber and the violation of the Ukrainian Act "On the Protection of Social Morality", the Ukrainian Act "On the Emancipation of Victory in the Great War of 1941-1945" and the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as the humiliation of the veterans of the Great Indian War and the promotion of the Soviet Army. I'm betting on a motion to support the request. [[10:21:06]] For 244 Request supported. I'm voting on a motion to refer a request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:21:28]] For 246 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. People's Deputies Groups: Kirilenko, Upper and others to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the violation of the right of commercial bank investors to confidential information. Vadima Koleschenko to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine in connection with the failure to respond to the parliamentary appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 21 September 2011, the involvement of those responsible and the failure to refer to the expert opinion of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe the draft Law on the Principles of State Language Policy. Mikli Kravchenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the refusal to register a draft Ukrainian Order on the withdrawal of a draft Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments. Catherine Samoylik, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, on the solution to the situation that has arisen with the construction of new clean-up facilities in the village of the city-type Kalanczak of the Herson Region. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, on providing information on the implementation of the numerous decisions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe regarding the investigation of the assassination of the Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Jelyashkevich. Valery Bondik and Alexia Plotnickov to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Prosecutor's Office of the Mikolai region, Head of Justice in the Mikolai region, on the need for a re-examination of the circumstances regarding the long-term non-execution of a court decision passed on behalf of the persons with disabilities of Group II of Anatolia and Alla Bulavko. Valentina Matvieva to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of immunosuppressants to the 1st group of invalids, residents of the Žitomir region, who were transferred to the transplant operation of the donor kidneys. Vasila Wondernova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of a state programme for the completion of library funds until 2015. Vassila Wonderful to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ivano-Frankov District Council for the restoration of free transport of schoolchildren during the holidays. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of Ukrainian citizens from harassment through so-called interactive television projects. Vladimir Stretovic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of funds for the acquisition of medical equipment and the completion of the construction of the Corps of the National Institute of Trauma and Orthopedics of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Catherine Samuelk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for a Herson Regional Institute for Teacher Improvement. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds to complete the construction of sewerage networks and constructions in the village of the town of Rudne Railway District of Lvova. Eugene Dobrak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to finance the construction of medical facilities in the city of Radomisl Zitomirsk, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. Paul Silent Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the renovation of the historic and cultural complex "The Bogdan Hmielnických Residence". Igora Sharov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to improve state mechanisms to promote employment for young countries in order to increase the social protection of graduates of educational institutions. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the Ukrainian State Budget for the restoration of the damaged school building in the village of Nova Vorbay, in the region of Yitomir. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with the reply of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the illegal actions of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, which for five years freed the import of a book of foreign origin, resulting in the loss of a state budget of $1 billion,800 million. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Odessa City Head for the protection of the legitimate rights of residents of the family shoe company of the Open Shareholder Association Albatros. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the construction of the subway for Troastina and taking into account the need in the draft budget to increase its funding by 210 million dollars in 2012. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, to increase the city of Kiev budget by 7.5 billion dollars on the basis of the percentage of the city budget income tax and the establishment of transparent relations between the capital and the state in the budgetary process. Sergey Tereshuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of gasification facilities for rural areas in the Cherkas region for construction and assembly work by sub-contracting organizations. Mikoli Shershun to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the transfer to the state property of engineering infrastructures of the rural drying system of the Plains region. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the head of the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa City Council for the prevention of gross violation of constitutional rights of socially unprotected residents of Odessa, as expressed in the obstacle to the legitimate activities of the Veteran Social Protection Fund, in particular the closure of dining facilities for low-income persons, disabled persons, pensioners and emergency response measures. Vladimir Karpuk and Yuri Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Court of Auditors on urgent measures to prevent violations of the constitutional rights of citizens, legislation on the protection of economic competition in the field of public food purchases for the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Policy, the use in the current year and the formation of transparent annual plans in the coming years of purchases of goods in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement, the avoidance of abuses in this area, the provision of rational and effective use of public funds and the involvement of those responsible. Sergia Chrapova to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the clarification of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the registration of passengers of aircraft in Ukraine only after the passport of a Ukrainian citizen. Sergia Koshina to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, for the provision of a hot-food organisation for students of the Higher Professional School No. 29, a village of the town type Vladimirec of the Plains region, who have the status of victims as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Group of National Deputies to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Cerkas District State Administration, on the efficiency of the use for the tourist purposes of the helicopter course, built under the State Objective Program for the Euro final part of 2012 from football in the village of Pekari in the Cherkas region. [[Tomenka, Korja and others. Total 4 deputies]] Oleg Zarubinsky, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, for the dissemination by the banks of Ukraine of false information about the terms of credit of the population. Veacheslav Koval to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the protection of the civil and labour rights of Senior Lieutenant Alexander Scherbück and the need to verify the legality of his release from the ranks of the naval forces. Gennady Zadirka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the improper treatment of employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Odessa area of parliamentary appeal for the vicious beating of a citizen of Razmik Aywazian. Eugene Goodyak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the continued illegal actions of civil servant Valery Prudnikov in relation to citizen Alexander Redeuce and the failure of the Pecher District Department of the Ministry of Interior in Kiev to respond to the final review of the case. Igor Greeniv to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine's failure to respond essentially to a request from September 7, 2011 that representatives of the forces of the paranoia-exit form be ignored during the celebration of the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's Independence. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine for the failure to respond to a parliamentary request for the development of a separate project for a state-wide agricultural programme in radioactively polluted areas and their comprehensive rehabilitation. Mikhail Zubcz to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine on the fact of the raiding and acquisition by the Society with limited responsibility of "APK"Tairovski" monuments of construction and architecture - the main building of the wine-growing plant of the State Enterprise "Tairovsk Research Farm" of the National Institute of Wine and Winery of Vasil Tairov". Paul Silent to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine for the provision of a school bus to students in Razine Romanov, district of Žitomir. Sergey Tereshuka to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the completion of construction works to the museum of the State Historical and Cultural Reserve "Tripil Culture" in the village of Legedzine Talniv district of Cherkas region. Jurija Gnatkević to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the incomprehensible attitude of the judge to articles 53 and 143 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine and articles 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Expertise, as well as the extremely unprofessional attitude of experts to the implementation of the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice instruction on the appointment and conduct of forensic experts and expert studies in the civil case before the Court of Justice of Kiev, led by Judge Natalija Czerdenko. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Agency for Road Traffic of Ukraine, the State Sanitation and Epidemiological Service of Ukraine, the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Public Administration, the Holy District in Kiev State Administration, the Thessaloniki District in Kiev State Administration, the Obolon District in Kiev State Administration on the need for measures to ensure the proper level of transport and housing services in various parts of Kiev. [[Plitnik, Prutnik and others]] Edward Prutnik to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Montenegrin District State Administration on the review of the re-examination of the villages of Tereshkovka and Schniakovk of the region of Nizhin in the Chernigiv region on the need for all-inclusive assistance in the completion of the gasification of these villages before the autumn-winter period. Paul Kostenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service for the Prevention of Corruption in Local Self - Government Authorities. Andrija PARUBIA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the non-admission of illegal interference with the broadcast of the Odessa opposition television company "The Circle". Vladimir Ariev to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, regarding the need to carry out a fact check on behalf of the Lviv community in addressing the heroines of Ukraine, Yuri Shuhević and Boris Voznick. Valery Calchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine on the violation of current legislation in the activity of a limited-liability society called Moby Express, which is the founder of the district newspaper "News of the City of Kirov". Igor Alekseyeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ukraine’s Minister of Health, for the verification of Ukraine’s effective legislation in the Odessa region’s psychiatric institutions. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, on the confirmation of gross violations of current legislation by members of the police and judges of the city of South Ukraine of the Mikolai region. Vassil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of members of the Jubilee Garden Society, in the city of Ternopil, whose land was illegally removed and the gardens were destroyed. Victor Schwetz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper examination by the Prosecutor's Office of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the legislative provision of legal protection for complaints to Love Petrunenko. Vitalia Barwinenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal use of the "Blue Level 2005" Society with limited responsibility, Lake China, in the area of the Kili district of Odessa near the villages of Furmanyvka, Vasilyvka and the city of Kilia. Vitalia Barwinenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials of the Open Shareholders Association "June 28" of the Salgan Village Council of Bilgorod-Dnistrov district of Odessa. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures of procuratorial response to protect housing rights and exercise the right to privatize the residence of residents on Sagajdajna 6/37 in the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the measures taken to the former Chief of the 63rd Sanitary Epidemiology Laboratory of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, Major of Medical Services Vladimir Sosnicky and other officials of this military unit. Elina Shishkina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of unauthorized methods of investigation by the employees of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine of Zaporozhye and the violation of rights to protect Anton Harritonov and other suspects of the explosion of the Holy Croat temple in Zaporozhye. Mikoli Kowzel to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the closure of a family - type children’s home in the city of Kiverci Volinsk. Olega Lalashka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of a criminal case against the head of the Montenegrin District Administration of Vladimir Homenk and the head of the Borznian District Administration, Anatoly Drobot, for obstructing the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Oleg Lášk. Oleg Malič to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the activities of the Society with limited responsibility "Agrobuilder" - the owner of clean-up buildings in the village of the town-type Kozin of the Obukhiv district of Kiev, which poses a threat to a major ecological disaster in the Dnipro river basin. Alexander Holug to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate and unbiased investigation of a criminal case for the fact that the authorities had exceeded and the officials of the Pustomitov District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region tried to hide the crime. Helen Bondarenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the disposal of kiosks from the sale of printed media in Kiev and the verification of compliance with the relevant city services of Kiev by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 15 April 2009 on the introduction of a moratorium on the eviction of printed media, cultural institutions, including libraries, bookstores, book and press companies. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to provide an answer by the prosecutor of the Mikolai district to a parliamentary appeal regarding possible illegal actions by the head of the line office at the Mikolai station of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the Odessa Railway. Jury Litvina to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Kyiv District State Administration, on the application of measures to ensure the constitutional rights of the citizen of Violeta Spyczak, on the enforcement of the procurator's orders and on the decision of the court, on the use of appropriate measures to address violations of current legislation and to bring the guilty to justice. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the prohibition of censorship and the right of a national deputy to speak in the media by the Director General of the Jury Uzdemir District Broadcasting Company. [[Skinwash, Tomenka, and others]] Valerija Baranov to the head of the Ukrainian State Land Agency for the purpose of amending Ukraine's land legislation with regard to certain conditions for land use. Igor Aleksiev to the head of the Odessa District State Administration to verify compliance with valid legislation in the Odessa area’s internal institutions. Alexander Golub to the head of the Lviv District State Administration for the restoration of a monument to the victims of the gang terror in the village of Dobroblány Drobic district of Lviv region. Olga Gerasimük and Irina Herashchenko are headed by the Kyiv City State Administration to cancel the order of the Chief of Culture of 31 August 2011 to move the archaeological collection from the "Peter I Building" to the temporary premises of the Ukrainian House. Ostap Semerak to the head of the government of the Public Shareholder Society of the National Shareholders Association of Black Mornaphtogaz for the provision of complete and appropriate information. Ulyanas Mistpane to the head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Kyiv region regarding the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal for the reduction of social benefits to children of war, the Chernobylites and the military pensioners of Rokitnjanski, Mironowski, Boguslavski and Kagarlitzki Districts, the Chief Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Kyiv region. Groups of National Deputies (Boldirev, Vaszuk and others) A total of 8 national deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Azarov, for the illegal reconciliation of posts as the first Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine and the President of the National Agrarian Academy of Ukraine, Toothless and his inaction in these posts. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, given that, we'll see what the answer to the MP's question is. Honourable National MPs, 113 MPs have been announced, including one request addressed to the President of Ukraine. Yes, distinguished national MPs, Vladimir Leschchenko appealed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to give him three minutes to speak in connection with his dissatisfied response to his parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. All documents on this subject have been properly prepared. Please, your right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u12	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I am not satisfied with my reply to my request to Prime Minister Azarov Mikoli Janović, who was announced at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 9 September 2011 for the illegal removal of aids from the South-West Railways for transportation for the benefit categories of citizens by replacing the suburban diesel train to the Chernigów-Gornostivka district for the high-comfort diesel train. For this reason, given the demands of the electorate of Czernigov and the surrounding areas, I have twice sent MPs to Prime Minister Azarov of Ukraine, and this is one of the references. I was approached by the citizens of Chernigov, veterans of the Great Homeland War and the work, participants in the elimination of an accident on CHAES, Afghans, disabled people, and other categories of low-security citizens. According to valid Ukrainian legislation, they are entitled to free travel on suburban trains. This right was exercised on the Chernobyl-Gornostievka diesel train to its cities, to its respective areas, to its relatives, and to the rural pensioners to the district centre for the purpose of visiting hospitals, social protection agencies, etc. Since September 20th of this year, the usual suburban train on this route has been canceled with railway services, and now diesel trains, the Chernigow-Gornostivka, have to be paid for it. People were indignant at the decision of the railways to subtly take away benefits from low - security groups. Both times, the first Deputy Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Jefimenko, answered my call. He referred to problems in the field and claimed that the benefits were right. So for the third time, I've already prepared a parliamentary request for Prime Minister Azarov to provide me with official information on how the government feels about the illegal removal by the South West Railway of aids for transportation in respect of the pension categories of citizens by replacing the suburban diesel train at Chernigow-Gornostivka with a diesel train of increased comfort. Again, the First Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Jefimenko, sent the reply. He reported that the Ministry’s position on the issue would remain unchanged. But I asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine, not the first deputy minister of infrastructure. He asked for information on the government’s attitude toward the illegal removal of the benefits to the category, not the Ministry’s position. That's why I'm calling on Prime Minister Azarov of Ukraine for the fourth time. Dear Mikolo Janovich, consider the problems I've had and solve them for the common citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u13	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, in connection with the speech of the national deputy Lechchenka, I ask you to prepare appropriate rebuttals. Dear National Deputies! It is suggested that consideration be given to the inclusion in the agenda of daily draft laws registered in accordance with the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on national elections. I already jumped here, I'm sorry. We now have, honourable colleagues, a review of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on a Product Distribution Agreement. [[on the list of plots]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexi Plotnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u14	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is on the proposal of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Contracts for Distribution of Produce for a second reading. [[on the list of plots]] The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution of Produce, which removes the list of areas of nadr, pedigree, beneficial fossils that can be made on terms of distribution contracts as one that prevents investment from being involved in the field of drug use and does not meet international practice. After reading the bill for the first time, there were ten suggestions. Of these, three are counted, one is partially counted, and six are rejected. In addition, comments were received from the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority. In particular, this is a reference to article 6 of the Act, which proposes the third part of section 6 of the Act, which reads as follows: "The competition for the conclusion of product distribution contracts for a specific area of periphery shall be held on the basis of any such conditions." Thus, the Economic Policy Committee of the Supreme Council requests the adoption of a draft as a whole, taking into account the proposals made by the General Legal Authority. And if there's an amendment, I'm also willing to respond to those remarks.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u15	Amendment number two, Ruslan Knyazevich. No, it's not. 3rd Amendment. Yuri Karmazin is not either. I didn't see your hand. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u16	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of Knyazevitch was about rejecting the law in general. And to be honest, a wise amendment would not have to be further fruitful at all. My amendment relates to what I propose in the first part of article 6 that I leave in good order. In particular, the distribution agreements under this law can be concluded for individual areas of the nadr, which are limited in space and coordinates within which there are deposits, parts of the beneficial fossils of local value, including areas of nadr within the continental shelf and the exclusive maritime economic zone of Ukraine, provided for by a list of areas of nadr that can be used under conditions defined by the distribution agreements. I feel that it is inappropriate to refuse to list the parts of the nadr that can be used under the conditions set out in the distribution agreements. And I'm just saying that it seems to have a negative impact on the involvement of investment in the exploration of nadr areas and in the development of genealogy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u17	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u18	The committee rejected the amendment. We think that creating an additional list is still a corrupt load. So inclusion in the list, exclusion from the list, some shares, to make sure that this list exists. In principle, we do not support the creation of an additional list as a document.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u19	Amendment 3 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[10:49:29]] For-36 Correction not supported. Amendment 4. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u20	Yuri Carmazin. It's the other way around. When there are no lists, there is nothing. It's going to be that I'm going to inform society soon, what's going on with the nadra, and how they're going to "split through the pockets." I suggest in part, in my amendment 4: in the second part of article 6, the first paragraph should be left in the correct order. Who doesn't know this important editorial, I can remind her, but first I'll tell you why. This amendment comes from the preceding paragraph in Part One. Because refusing to list areas is not a good idea. This paragraph should be left unchanged, checked and regulated by the approval of the list of parts of the nadr. And it was like, "A list of areas of nadr that can be used under the terms of the product distribution agreements is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by joint submission of the inter-ministerial commission and the relevant central executive authorities with prior reconciliation."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u21	Be a good girl, be a good boy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u22	Well, here's the same case as the previous amendment. So we're conceptually against entering a single list and here's our reaction to the same thing as the previous one. We did not include this amendment because the list is not what this law needs to be supplemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u23	The vote is amended as follows: 4 Yuri Karmazin. [[10:51:28]] For-34 Correction not supported. Amendment 5 Yuri Karmazin Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u24	Yuri Carmazin. In the 5th amendment, I propose that the second part of the second part of article 6 should be left in the following wording: "Investor may refer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or to an inter-ministerial commission with a proposal for a solution to the question of including a certain area in the list. The result of the consideration of the offer is reported by the investor no later than three months." As you can see, everything is absolutely transparent and everything is the same for everyone. If we now adopt this law, I know, even a list of people who will be separate. They're usually all in that part of the room, which is now supported by this anti-national government, which signed shameful agreements, where the exclusion from the trade of the Russian Federation is on page 32. And it's a shame that we didn't listen to the not-respected Mr. Prime Minister today, because that would be very interesting. There, too, our areas of land will be lost in these covenants.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u25	The 5th amendment is rejected by the same reasoning as the 4th and 3rd amendments by the same author. So this is about trying to enter the text of this law into the corresponding list. We conceptually don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u26	Amendment 5 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[10:53:19]] For-35 Correction not supported. Amendment 6 Yuri Karmazin Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u27	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that no one wants to clean up such corruption and, on the contrary, they are working together. With every law, we have more. I even sometimes have a question, and what would happen if the Supreme Council stopped its work, say, for months at least three? And I'm sure nothing bad would have happened. Absolutely nothing. It's about the same thing that Mogilov wouldn't come to work. And it would have been better if I'd gone to Macievka, worked there, everything would have been fine. That's why I propose that the second part of the sixth should be left in the correct order, and I stress that today is the drafting of the law: "Inclusion of a certain area of nadr into the list is carried out under any of these criteria" and a list of criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u28	The 6th amendment is rejected by the same reasoning as 5th, 4th, and 3rd. We are conceptually opposed to leaving in the text a so - called list. We exclude it, we exclude it, including from the same paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u29	Vote number 6 of Yuri Karmazin. [[10:55:02]] For-32 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment number seven. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u30	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember a situation where I stayed in this room as a minority when it came to the privatization of the Crucifixion. You remember, don't you? What belongs to all the Ukrainian people has been distributed, we now destroy all control over it. I understand that several oligarchs have added that they have already brought the whole faction, that it has grown up not only in the region, but the name has already been given to the Party of the Regions. I understand all that. But you can't spoil the legislation that's normal. I think your president will also impose this veto on this law. That is why I propose to write that changes be made to the established lists of areas envisaged in this article regarding the areas of the nadr that have been contracted or declared to be prohibited by the interdeputy commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u31	Amendment 7 is rejected on the same terms as amendments 6-a, 5-a, 4-a and 3-a. Conceptually, we find it inappropriate to leave in the text a so-called list. We think this is the path to corruption, that it's the way to input or output areas from this list. And again, this is not normal in terms of the concept of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u32	Dear National Deputies! I'm willing to vote on Amendment 7. [[10:57:04]] For-35 Correction supported. Dear National Deputies! The committee's offering till 9:00? Please. Nine o'clock, please. It's counted, it'll have to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u33	Yuri Carmazin, distinguished national MPs! The subject of our law is to amend article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Product Distribution. And all of a sudden we're making changes, this is Amendment 9, to the Codex on Nadra. The Ukrainian Codex on Nadar in the first reading was not amended, nor was it amended. Because of this, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, no one has annulled 116 articles of the Rules, I don't know how you're missing it. But you take it now and you're introducing the Nadra Code. You don't have to do this. There is a contradiction to this code and not just this part. And that's why, first, I'm asking the committee: why is something that wasn't to be missed? And the second. Please place this article on confirmation. And the third. I'm calling on the President's representative to say that if it's adopted all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I give you my answer. There is absolutely no violation of article 116, since this is a harmonization of the laws in force. Therefore, there is no reason for such a question. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u35	And now we need to put the 9th article on the vote for confirmation. Please be prepared. Dear colleagues, the 9th article is considered by the committee, and the National MP’s request for a vote is based on the proposal for confirmation of the 9th amendment, which is considered by the committee. Please vote. And [[10:59:32]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law, taking into account the observations of the Legal Department, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u36	They have a technical character. Dear colleagues. It's very simple. I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. Bill 8712 registration number. The committee agrees with the recommendations of the Legal Authority. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, if they were against it, then. And they agree. Please vote. [[11:00:19]] For 257 The law is passed. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now consider the inclusion in the agenda of a series of drafts that relate to electoral legislation (registration number 9265, 9265-1, 9265-2, 9265-3. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of draft laws on the election of Ukrainian national deputies. Again, registration numbers: 9265, 9265-1, 9265-2, 9265-3. Please vote. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u37	It's a day-to-day inclusion. [[11:01:22]] For 256 Decision taken. I'm asking our profile committee to now consider these issues. Committee hearings are scheduled for October 31st. After that, we'll have a committee review and then we'll look at it in the session room. Better than a month, it's going to be a lot. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on specifying the appointment of the main cost manager]] [[Registration number 8722]] The committee would like to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:02:21]] For 219 Decision taken. The reporter is the head of the State Agency for the Management of the Disposal Zone, Vladimir Holos. Correspondent: Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill provides for amendments to the Appendices of the General Target Environmental Programme for the Management of Radioactive Wastes, as approved by the Ukrainian Act on the Public Targeted Environmental Programme for Radioactive Waste Management, and a supplement to the General Government Programme for the Exploitation of Chernobyl AES and the Conversion of the Object of Protection to an Environmentally Safe System, as approved by the Ukrainian Act on the General Government Programme for the Exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and the Conversion of the Object of Protection into an Environmental Security System. This is in line with the need to clarify the appointment of the central executive body, the chief cost manager, in accordance with the President’s Decree on Optimization of the System of Central Executive Authorities. In particular, the Ukrainian State Agency for the Administration of the Aliens Zone, approved by the Presidential Decree of April 6, 2011, relies on the State Agency for the Administration of the Aliens Zone. Please approve the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u39	Thank you, Vladimir Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Petrovich, conclusion of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the draft law proposes to amend the Appendices of the Public Target Environmental Program "Conducting Radioactive Wastes" and the appendix to the General Government Program "Extracting from the Exploitation of Chernobyl AES" and transforming the Object "Hiddening" into an environmentally sound system approved by the relevant laws of Ukraine. The introduction of these changes is based on the need to clarify the appointment of the central executive authority as the chief fund manager in accordance with the decree of the President of Ukraine. And so it's suggested to change -- it's purely technical -- it's suggested to change the words "MNS" and "Minpalevenergo" by saying "Minpalevenergo." and the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine. The Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that the above-mentioned draft does not have an impact on the budgetary indicators, and if the law is adopted, it may take effect according to legislation. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted on a basis. Taking into account the purely technical nature of the proposed legislative acts, as well as the absence of comments by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee on Budget Issues, the committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that a bill be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? The committee proposes to accept it as both basic and general. If there is no objection, I put to the vote a proposal by the Committee on Adoption as a basis and as a whole a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on specifying the appointment of the main cost manager]] [[Registration number 8722]] Please vote. [[11:06:11]] For 268. The law is passed. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the improvement of State procurement and the legal regime of the Ukrainian Armed Forces]] [[Registration number 8642]] The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Nadosha, co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexy Plotnikov. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, I bring to your attention that the committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be removed from consideration in connection with the author's initiative to withdraw this bill. That's why I'm putting, honourable colleagues to the vote, a motion to withdraw from the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the improvement of State procurement and the legal regime of the Ukrainian Armed Forces]] [[Registration number 8642]] Please vote. [[11:07:40]] For 266 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act on the legislative guarantees of the right to receive a subsidy to compensate for the cost of housing services and the simplified order of its appointment is being considered. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vetwicki Dmitry, co-rapporteur, head of the Subcommittee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Sergey Maybeard. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:08:30.]] For 213 Decision taken. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to briefly introduce Bill 8140 to your attention. It is the case that, to date, subsidies for housing and utility tariffs are not received by all people on time and in full for the simplest possible reasons. These are the reasons we are all, the people's deputies, we know that people are communicating with us. First, it is the people of the older generation. Often these are pensioners and pensioners who find it difficult to find all the necessary offices to obtain all the necessary signatures to obtain timely subsidies. The worst part is that not all people are legally educated and know that they are being subsidized by the State for tariffs and services of the JCC. In this regard, I propose in my bill that people receive subsidies in an automatic manner, as they are now automatically accrued, that the Government and the public authorities have every opportunity to do so, and I believe that if we take such a step, that we will automatically receive grants, our citizens will receive full grants — those that are laid down under our legislation. Vice-Prime Minister Tigipco, speaking from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a week ago, said that the draft budget for 2012 prepared by the Government was allotment money. A total of 2.9 billion bracelets, and I propose that the public authorities find people to whom subsidies have been granted and pay, and our citizens have not stood in line, have not studied the bills and new Cabinet of Ministers orders for grants, because they, if they communicate, are not in line.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u43	Microphone, please. Do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u44	And if they do not, they will be driven out of the midst of the corridors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u45	Thank you. Sergey Fedotovich Maybeard, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u46	Honourable People's Deputies, the bill was reviewed by the Committee on 6 April this year and did not support the author. The proposal regarding the obligation of the authorities to determine for themselves the time when a person's right to receive grants should not be accepted. The fact is that the creation and confirmation of the right to housing costs is linked to the total income of families'households, i.e. every person registered in a residential facility whose confirmation is not sufficient only to confirm the identity of the person. That is, the irresponsibility of those seeking grants would increase the unmotivated costs of the budget. The Chief Research and Expert Office believes that it is advisable to refer the bill to the finalization. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour proposes to reject the bill. The Budget Committee noted that the implementation of its provisions would affect the spending of the budget, but no financial justification was provided by the authors. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine notes that the implementation of the draft law does not comply with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act of Ukraine. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine noted that the implementation of the bill would not be provided with financial resources for the establishment of an automated system for the processing of grant recipients' data. The Ministry of Social Policy does not support the bill, as there is a need to establish a database on all Ukrainian households and monthly monitoring of changes in the income and property of all citizens. In view of the foregoing, I ask that the Committee's decision be supported and that the bill be returned to the authors for finalization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, shall we discuss this matter? Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Josephovich Matviev, a faction of Communists Peter Cibenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u48	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'll start with the profile committee information. We've all learned very well on formal legal grounds to send or reject a document. But respectable colleagues, perhaps other than those remarks that have been found by a professional committee or by scientific and expert management, can find a lot of other reasons for that. But let's look at the problem. Well, really, there is a problem. As the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, and to a greater extent as head of the Council of Veterans of Ukraine, I have repeatedly confirmed this problem. This is about every third appeal to the Supreme Council, to the organization of Ukrainian veterans, and the professional committees are concerned with this problem. Is it not clear that not everyone who has a right to benefits can actually benefit from it for reasons that do not depend on it? So I would ask that we all look for motives, not to reject the bill, but to solve the problem. What's more, I want to say, including to the representatives of institutions, housing and utility organizations. The increase in tariffs and prices, which are constantly happening, is already working against the very organizations that are doing it. Because not every citizen is far away today, and I will say even more, a large number of them are unable, for objective reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u49	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u50	Not able to pay these tariffs, so, in fact, the representatives of these state institutions are working against themselves. So on behalf of the faction, I would still like to support the very idea of this bill in order to facilitate the process of receiving housing subsidies from Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u51	Demidko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Do you refuse? Don't you insist? Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Our parliamentary group not only read the title of the bill but read its essence, read its text, and we can only repeat to the well - known national wisdom: that good intentions lead to hell. When there is a purpose, and there is no sensible, reasonable approach. To implement this idea, when decisions on the allocation and non-dividualisation of subsidies are made without a citizen’s request, appropriate investigations, tests, and so forth may need to be brought together by the FSB, the FBI and the CIA and added to the top. This is the first time. It's different. In fact, the adoption of such a law, if any, opens the colossal gates for new abuses absolutely. It is also without the knowledge of the citizens themselves who carry out certain tests, gather information, and at that level and those bodies that have never been authorized to do so, and will not be directly responsible for the disclosure of such information. So, in our view, the very, really painful problem of listing subsidies, which today is very far from humanely proper, requires unconditional settlement, but not in any way in the way that this bill does. Man himself is the master of his right. The other thing is that if a person thinks he has a right to a subsidy, we have to legally produce a system in which a person submits an application, submits a complaint, provides some data that confirms his right to a subsidy. Already testing this data, searching for additional information, and so forth, would be the case with the appropriate authorities of local self - government, or the state. But there is no way to give doubting authorities doubtful authority over investigation and espionage. Our faction doesn't support this, let's say, not a very good bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u54	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, let's think about it. A living pensioner, 70 years old, doesn't work anywhere, prices go up. What changed his mind that he needed to run for help? What changed him because you had to take $30 billion offshore? 16 grand is working on it! Nothing's changed, and you're making him run. Vitwicki, thanking him publicly, did the right thing. He wrote that these citizens have the right to receive subsidies first. It's different. A living invalid with no legs and, sadly, they will no longer grow up. What, he also needs to run? You're again putting him in trouble for him to collect papers, to prove, to write, to ask someone, and so on. You know, it reminds me of this, I open the Internet and our president writes and says, "Julia Timoshenko has to prove her innocence!".. And I say, "Lord, open the Constitution, article 62." Every person will be guilty only if he is found guilty by a court of law, not by "Koreev" means. On the contrary, she does not have to prove her innocence. That's exactly what National MP Vetwicki writes: "There will be doubts as to whether a citizen has the right to receive subsidies is treated in his favor until a competent authority has established a reverse." It's super-written, it's civilized. Everyone started throwing themselves at this project. We have to take him. You will be thanked by the Ukrainian people, especially by pensioners and disabled persons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes that the bill be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. The main scientific and expert office believes that it is also appropriate to send the bill for further work. In accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote a proposal first on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Housing and Utilities Act on legislative guarantees of the right to receive a subsidy to compensate for the cost of housing services and the simplified order of their assignment. [[Registration number 8140]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:21:11]] For-42 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to return the bill to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative. Please also identify yourself. [[11:21:34]] For-43 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes. [[about the order in which the honors are assigned]] The rapporteur is national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski. The focal point is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. I am voting on the proposal of the National Deputies to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:22:21]] For 209 Decision taken. Demčishen Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, at its meeting on 20 April this year, reviewed the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski. [[about the order in which the honors are assigned]] The bill proposes to clarify the procedure for assigning honours to Ukraine, in particular to exclude from the relevant provisions of article 10 of the Ukrainian Act "On State Prizes" the term "as a rule" as a result of which honorary titles will be assigned to persons on the condition that they have at least 10 years of employment in the relevant area of the economic and socio-cultural sphere and at least 10 periods between the assignment of individual titles of honor. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues concluded that the bill would have an impact on the budget and that if it was adopted, it could take effect on the day of publication. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, having examined the proposed bill in accordance with its requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, noted in its conclusion that the bill was registered in compliance with the requirements of the Rules. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a number of comments to the bill and considers it appropriate to reject it in the first reading. During the discussion at the meeting of our Committee on Construction and Local Self-Government, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy. [[about the order in which the honors are assigned]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u57	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u58	When considering the first reading, reject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! Shall we discuss the questions? Please sign up. Thank you, sit down. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense. Peter Cibenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u60	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, what needs to be addressed is the question of assigning honors to Ukraine, the issue is long known. For example, on September 1, of this year, there were more than 1,000,600 national artists, more than 2,000 deserving artists, and more than 3,000,400 deserving cultural workers. Similar things can be pursued in other areas. To say, among the 450 national deputies on September 1, this year, think of the 146 people who have earned the title in one area or another! From well - deserved artists to well - deserved education workers, well - deserved health workers, and so forth. And especially the downpour of rewards pours out to some Jubilee. For example, by Independence Day, by the age of 20, 76 national deputies, majority representatives, or those carcasses that had gone to the majority! Think about it. One prize is 76 national MPs. So very often these people, who lobby for the majority, make laws or protect laws in order to take an interest in the oligarchic clans, get the title of deserved lawyers in a very short time. And it's funny when you work in law school for 4 or 5 years, and it's already become a well-deserved lawyer, which is a dream of a highly respected grey-haired professor from some university. So these things, it seemed to normally be 10 years for a person to have a professional internship, are pretty significant. And this bill needs to be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u61	That's what I announced. Now, let's get the MPs on the line, and then you'll do it. Well, let's get this over with. The MPs have already started speaking. Peter Cibenko. Well, you're in the end, now you're acting deputies, you're in the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u62	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I can agree that we really need to standardize the appropriate assignment of such honors as national, merited, and so forth. I really need to raise their status, I don't deny it at all. But I'm looking at the left column and I'm looking at the right column in the compare table and I see that there's a "not less than 10 years" there. So I don't know, what's the point of this bill? Maybe it's just that the word "usually" disappears. Well, the rule is that there may be exceptions in any rule. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine, given that we don't see any substantial money in this bill, is not going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u63	Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, Ukraine has talents. Now I'm not advertising a well-known television project to everyone, but I'm saying confidently and convincingly that there are enough people in our country who deserve respect. Many of them are worthy of honor, honor, and honor. But according to the logic of the drafter, they will have to wait for recognition until they work 10 years in the relevant field. Obviously, the proposed standard is not stimulating, but rather stimulating. The ability of a person to make progress that can be measured on a national level depends on the individual himself, his talent, his gift, his industriousness, his desire to create, and other elements. Talent is given by God. Skill comes with years of hard work. The author of the bill believes that by setting a limit on working in the relevant field for at least 10 years, the vachanal can be stopped when Ukraine's highest national awards are awarded. It's not clear why the author thinks that in assigning an honorary title to Ukraine, the vachanalia ends just after the 10-year deadline in the relevant field. Why is it 10 years, not 30 years, for example? Because based on the logic of the purpose and purpose of the bill, if you proposed to assign honorary titles, for example, 30 years later in the relevant field, the vacchanalia would end at all. It is not clear why the author does not propose to fight the vacchanalia itself, but punishes people who are masters of their work and have actually made a significant contribution to the development of the state. It is not clear why a person with high levels of work is already a professional skill, and an apprenticeship in an appropriate field, for example, for 8 years, why he cannot be marked at the national level. Why does the author propose that only working professionals should be noted for how to deal with non-working retirees? I propose to reject this bill. I think these are.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u65	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u66	I think that these standards that are proposed are unfair, we're just humiliating those people who work skillfully and professionally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u67	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u68	Once this bill was severely criticized, I am its author. The idea here was that Ukraine had talents. It's very good, I'm very happy that Ukraine has it, it really has it. But it seems like America doesn't have them anymore, Germany doesn't have them anymore, Poland doesn't have them, well, there's no talent, and everything, and be healthy. But people are good, and let us be ashamed of what we are talking about today! But not in America, there is no national artist, a well - deserved artist, there is either a famous artist, or a genius artist, recognized by society, or an artist, somewhere in the third, fourth, fifth row, who plays in the crowds. Nowhere in the world is a well - deserved artist and folk artist. There is either Pablo Picasso, or Gauguin, there is an artist known worldwide, and no other name is needed. But that's not what I'm talking about. I don't want to ruin the system that's already there, even though it seems to me like it's completely corrupt and completely brought by the past. He's a Belarusian writer who has reached the status of "national writer", the throat of one another has been chewed up for who's national, who's not national. By the way, Basil Bekov, a brilliant writer in Belarus, was never a national writer and did not want to be. That's why I just wanted to get back to normal. Well, imagine when by Independence Day, I'm not going to call the last name here, until the Independence Day of one writer in the middle of the night, they raise it to a writing organization and they say, sign the papers for him to convict a hero. Well, is that how it's done? With the writer very mediocre, believe me, very and very mediocre. That's why I asked the bill to have some rules that the same president and the Cabinet of Ministers would hold, that is, so that at least 10 years after a well-deserved actor could be awarded a national actor. And then, if a person retires, a pensioner doesn't work, and where he can earn and earn, let's say, a name, he won't earn it anywhere. Maybe I know whether to buy or pick up some mud.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u69	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u70	The bill is fair, but you don't want to vote, don't vote. But just don’t pretend that if it isn’t national, it’s not talented. As you wish, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to reject the bill. The main scientific and expert office is of the same opinion, namely, about the need to reject the bill. It is the first regulatory proposal for the adoption of the draft law on the basis of amendments to article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on State Prizes. [[Registration number 8139]] [[about the order in which the honors are assigned]] Please determine by vote. [[11:34:29]] For-40 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear National MPs, I am announcing a draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act. [[on the declarant principle]] The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Kseniya Ljapina, co-rapporteur, the head of Anatoly Seminoga's committee. One minute, Kseniya Mikhailna. There is a stubborn vote on the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm going to put this proposal to the vote, the more the author agrees with this proposal. Please vote. [[11:35:19]] For 185 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u72	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party for Ukraine! Dear colleagues, this bill is designed to further improve the Fire Safety Act in accordance with the principles laid down in the Law on the Liberation System. I'll remind you, we've all taken a big step together, and we've determined that new enterprises are starting their business, and we're starting a new kind of business on the basis of a declaration of conformity of the material and technical base to the requirements of legislation. This has made life easier for businesses. However, it should be noted that with regard to the fire safety of an enterprise, by its nature, they are classified by various degrees of danger. Hence, not every enterprise can simply be set up on the basis of a declaration principle. I propose that it be determined that if the listed enterprises belong to a category of fire-fighting companies, they may initiate their activities by a declaration principle, provided that voluntary liability insurance contracts are entered into against third parties. Thus, we put a normal, modern European barrier against improper treatment of third parties and risks. In addition, I propose that this law clearly determine how this is required by the Act on the Allowance System, which is the basis for the granting of a permit based on the results of an assessment of the fire situation of the enterprise. This is important because the Law on the Free System requires that we clearly determine on what grounds permission is granted or where permission is refused. So I'm asking, the bill is actually short, really, it's pointy, but it's really important because it regulates security. I'm asking you to support him, the committee's decision is on the basis, and although I think he might be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u73	Thank you, too. Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! You have introduced a draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act. As has already been pointed out, the purpose of the bill is to bring legislation in the field of fire safety in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, which is achieved by making appropriate changes to article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act. The bill lays down the conditions for enterprises that are part of the category of fire - resistant entities for the implementation of activities according to the declarative principle. That is, on the condition that voluntary insurance contracts are made against third parties. Such practices exist in civilized countries of the world and have demonstrated their effectiveness: reducing the influence of controlling authorities on business entities. The Committee on Rules, MPs, and Security of the Supreme Council noted that the bill was registered to meet the requirements of articles 90, 92 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy supports the bill. The Cabinet of Ministers supported the bill on the basis of some comments. One of the comments concerns the need to supplement the bill with a provision to amend section 9 and article 18 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act. The remark is correct, and in our view it must be taken into account in the vote in the first reading so as not to violate article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus determined that the bill could be adopted on the basis of the following, taking into account the comments and suggestions made. These comments may be included in a second reading. The Ukrainian National Deputies — members of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster — decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u75	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u76	Ukraine's Fire Safety Act is to be accepted as a basis. Thank you for your attention. And please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, may we take the decision of the committee? Please sign up for the discussion. Names of the national deputies. Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Then Mikhailo Chechetov. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very good offer. Perhaps all of us know that when they go to firefighters, some managers have the cold on their skin. But it's not because we have firefighters that are so scary, it's because usually nobody wants to spend on fire safety. Everyone thinks we're going to get away with the fire. As far as this bill is concerned, I think it's a very good suggestion to improve the relationship between business and the State Department of Fire Control. The only thing I don't agree with is the scientific expertise that there's no term like "fire hazard objects." There's a term, and if they've studied, there are now four, even five categories of signs, and that term is used as "fire hazard objects." I think it's a very good suggestion for a principle when an entrepreneur makes an application, but at the same time, he's going to stand up to all the standards for ensuring the liability of a material and technical base to the requirements of fire safety. And it's very true that the estimates of these, the conclusions are increasingly being drawn today, not by the State Fire Service, but by appropriate organizations that have licenses. In large numbers, the next step should be to start our activities without such a conclusion, but with the additional responsibility of the manager for meeting the requirements of fire safety. And of course, insurance will increase the responsibility of managers to comply with fire safety standards, because the insurance company will not want to take responsibility if it sees that the company does not comply with those standards. So, in large numbers, this bill could also be adopted in general, since there are no such special difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u79	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u80	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, thanks to the author, the law was written on the basis of the President's non-alternative course for the maximum deregulation of the economy. It is precisely in line with the adaptation of our legislation to European Union legislation, the course also unaltered, as defined in the Act adopted by the Supreme Council, “On the Basic Principles of Internal and Foreign Policy”. You know that yesterday a brilliant visit to Europe by First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Petrovich Kluev has been completed, and he has convinced our partners in Europe that, speaking on an equal footing with Ukraine, we can indeed sign this year both the Law on Association of Ukraine and the European Union and on free trade with the European Union. And here, indeed, yesterday, European partners were convinced that no ultimatums should be placed on equal terms with partners: both Ukraine and the European Union win. Therefore, even if we sign the Free Trade Act with the European Union, we will sign an association agreement, and this is a step towards achieving the strategic objective of joining the European Union. I think that this bill, written on the basis of the President's non-alternative deregulation course, should be voted on here by the constitutional majority. Thank you, author. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Once again, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority welcomes the bill and believes that it can be recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act. [[on the declarant principle]] Registration number 8388. Please vote. [[11:45:15.]] For 274 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! There was an offer to accept it as a whole, but the committee made a comment, so I'd ask the committee to speed up and we'd adopt the project as a law. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[on the limitation of the right of the Ukrainian Security Service and other law enforcement agencies to pursue political persecution]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Arsenij Yatsenuk, co-rapporteur – head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Alexander Scybinecki. I would like to vote on your motion to consider the issue of reduced procedure [[11:46:10]] For 217 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request and an offer. Let's work out all the bills, there's not a lot left, then we'll go straight to the shows at the Miscellaneous, or we'll go to the Miscellaneous for an hour. No warning? Thank you. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy Arsenij Yatsenuk. The Coroner is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee subcommittee, Alexander Skibinetsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, the law that I have enacted concerns today’s political moment. This is what is at the heart of the work of today's power -- the political persecution of any people who have a different position than today's authorities, who are speaking out against the President, who are speaking out against the government's plundering policy. It's not just about political leaders and political leaders who today's authorities have put in prison, I'm talking about Timoshenko personally, I'm talking about Lucenko, it's about millions of Ukrainians who have the opportunity to express their position in terms of power, but who are afraid of today's power. They are journalists who are persecuted by special services and the law enforcement system for even attending seminars. These are ordinary citizens who are taking part in Ukraine v. Yanukovic and whose militia in Simferopol and Kerchi simply decided to close for a few hours. They're bloggers who aren't afraid on the Internet to express their position on what's going on in the country. For the first time in Ukrainian legal history, the law introduces the concept of "political persecution" and the law defines for the first time criminal responsibility in relation to officials who carry out political persecution against Ukrainians for their free will and for their free expression of their positions and thoughts. In the Criminal Code, I propose two chapters: the first is criminal responsibility in relation to one person, an official who carries out political persecution against any Ukrainian citizen. And second, that's what we're talking about today. Today is when political persecution is being carried out by an organized group of people who are now in power. And this article foresees up to 15 years in prison. We demand to stop political persecution in the country, to release political opponents.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u83	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u84	decriminalize articles of the Criminal Code and not incarcerate them into prison, but fight them through ideas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u85	Alexander Skybinetsky, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, the National Security and Defence Committee has considered the bill, discussed it, and expressed such thoughts. Indeed, the situation where the Security Service is subordinated to one party, one leader, and we once had a KGB, CPRS, personally Leonid Illich Breženev, and today we have a BSS, a Party of Regions and personally Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, this situation speaks of the State's inclination towards totalitarianism, to the totalitarian regime. The situation, when the Ukrainian Security Service is completely opaque for Parliament, for democratic civil control, which is what it looks like today, gives the government every opportunity to abuse democratic freedom and political persecution. And those who are not blind today see that this is what is happening in our country. And from this point of view, it is quite clear that the author of the bill is taking the initiative to put a safety net in place. At the same time, unfortunately, a bill has been drafted with legally unacceptable novelties and formulations, and members of the committee have noted this during the discussion. Moreover, a number of issues that are proposed are already regulated by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Therefore, taking into account the noted and negative conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Ukrainian National Deputies, the majority of the members of the committee have approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the bill to reject it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Andrew Schlell. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the subject is extremely topical, and its relevance goes beyond the national politicians who are now in prison outside Kiev. And as soon as local government sees how in Kiev it's perfectly peaceful to use special units to launch a rally or take over a trading network or a market, they act on their own judgment and at the local level. I can inform you about these miracles. Let's say we have one classic called Kalashnikov, not Kyiv, we have Chigirian. When he was head of the administration, he was instructed to destroy an enterprise called Nibulon. So he decided to ban Nibulon from driving with or without grain in the area. He was such a weirdo. Now his governor has taken the opportunity to transfer his experience to the area, he leads the Innovation Policy Authority to act innovatively throughout the whole region of the Cherkas region. The situation is now on the market. You understand very well how special divisions are used to do that. You, for example, an entrepreneur or a businessman, didn't join the Party of Regions, didn't hang a President's portrait in your office, they work with you. Can you explain, if they find a case about the owner of the enterprise, any one that was ten years ago, that the special forces attack this business, they come in, and then they say, you can agree, the sum of that kind of political position is something like that. Today, I think Arseni Petrovich is right in that he needs to expand in part and persecution by political sign and by principle the position of business, which today throughout Ukraine does not know when the special division will come to him. And everyone knows that there are observations, there are wiretaps, and so on. So in the history of the Suslov family, we have repeatedly said that this is no longer going to any door. Because nearly 300 people, snipers, were reported to be the best units. In order to kill herdsmen in Odessa, no experts were found, but they were found to visit the deputies at home. So I think I need to think about the legal component and the legal technique. But just to be clear, as long as we think about legal technology, we have all the political opposition in the center and in the city, and the business that has the opposition, is being transferred to prisons. So I would support this idea and vote yes in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u89	Ruslan Knyazevich faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Kovalevska will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, you know, if we don't respond in any way to the bill now and we don't support it, we won't stop the situation. If you look at the practice that is now becoming more and more common every day in Ukraine, then under the so-called prevention alert, the Security Service is just cutting off any possibility of dissension in this country. If you are a blogger, if you have a different point of view than the one that is official in the country, you will be approached tomorrow with this warning and will be persuaded, or you will stop your blogging activity, or you will have problems. It's already come to the point that Ukrainian Truth journalists publish on their website that after they've been interned in the German Wave for several months, they are officially approached by a security officer and are warned by such a warning about the serious consequences if they continue to communicate with their German friends. It's a terrible thing to do! Look what you've come up with. They come to the Rector of the Catholic University and are obliged to carry out preventive activities among students so that they will not go to the opposition rally, not God. And we keep quietly closing our eyes and now we're hiding our heads like nothing's going on. Of course, it's said on the committee that we didn't have this kind of phenomenon, that we have to somehow see that it fits or doesn't fit the Constitution. Because we just didn't have political repression until now. We need to talk about this clearly. And so the only way to react to them right now is to make a definition of legislation. And then according to this definition, under this definition of punishing people. As far as I'm concerned, Arseni Petrovich is still offering to punish them under a saving regime. Because I believe that those who attract people to responsibility for political persecution must receive more punishment than what is currently being offered. And finally, the last. It is suggested that special divisions be used only for purposes such as the fight against organized crime and acts of terrorism. Not the way we have it now. And when that happens, the special divisions are completely vulnerable and unprofessional. Dear colleagues, this bill needs to be adopted immediately, and I suggest we do it in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u91	Julia Kovalevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, Julia Kovalevska, Party of Regions. Clearly, the bill proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council is populist. With all due respect to the author, I believe that the document is intended not to solve legal issues but to ensure the author's popularity. The rules on the protection of citizens from unlawful actions by law enforcement officials, which are proposed to introduce to Ukraine's Security Service laws, on the basis of Ukraine's national security, on counter-intelligence, on intelligence activities, are already contained in the Constitution of Ukraine and relevant laws. What is noted in the conclusion of the Committee on Safety and Defence as well as in the conclusion of the GNEO. Regarding the definition of "political persecution." There's a whole "Brodino" here: mixed in a bunch of horses, people. This included persecution for freedom of thought and speech, freedom of outlook and religion, social, cultural and, as the project's author defines, other interests. What other interests remain incomprehensible. Respectful benefits, all of which are listed by the author of freedom, other interests may lie far from the political plane, without having any bearing on politics. They will be recognized by political persecution according to this definition. That's the colossal. I'm going to point out that the term "political persecution" has been very common in recent times. Some opposition deputies sincerely believe that the involvement of political actors in the commission of crime is also a political persecution. Dharma. Dear ones, do not confuse sin with the righteous. So I think this understanding and this treatment of this term is unacceptable. So what you can do now is steal, break laws, kill, and when the law enforcement authorities come, yell that you're in opposition and that's political persecution. On the basis of the above, I propose to reject this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Committee, I'd like to put our political conversation back in law right now. And I'm reminding you of the conclusion of the committee that Alexander Matviyovich Skibinetsky spoke about, to reject the bill. The Science and Technology Administration accepted the same recommendation. That's why I'm putting to the vote the first sentence -- the adoption of the bill as a basis. [[Registration number 7140]] [[11:59:29]] For-63 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. By faction, please, the Party of the Regions is 0, "BUT - "The Fatherland" - 43, "Our Ukraine - the People's Self-Defense" - 18, the Communists - 0, "The Reforms for the Future" - 0, the People's Party - 0, non-fractional - 2. Dear National Deputies, I am announcing a draft law, draft laws on the Ukrainian State Migration Service, amending certain Ukrainian migration laws. At the same time, honourable national MPs have asked the author of draft drafts to consider the relevant bills in view of the fact that they have lost some of their relevance. What's more, there's a decision by a committee of profile on this bill that's supposed to reject this bill. So we have every reason to put to the vote a motion to withdraw from the consideration of draft laws. [[Registration numbers 4797, 4798]] Please vote for the withdrawal. [[12:00:51]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to make five decisions regarding the anniversary dates. If there's no objection, I'll call the bill, we'll have no objection, we'll vote. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft decree marking the 600th anniversary of the village of Kosmach in the region of Ivano-Frankow. Author of National Deputy of Ukraine Wonderful Basil. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality considered the matter and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee’s proposals. Is there a need to discuss this?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u94	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u95	Well, if they make a positive decision, then why should we vote if we support it? If they don't support us, then we'll go back to the discussion. I'm voting on a proposal for a draft ruling on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. [[Registration number 8623]] Please vote. [[12:02:18]] For-286 I'll take the order. Dear National Deputies! You are now invited to consider the draft decree on honoring the memory of the victims of the Korukow tragedy during World War II. Your colleagues Litwin, Martinyuk, and Tomenko introduced this project. The committee's been working on it. This is a question that needs an appropriate response from the Supreme Council. What's more, there's the President's decree, and there's a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. We should probably talk about this. Therefore, dear fellows! I'm voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt a draft regulation in general, taking into account the proposals, taking into account the proposals, taking into account the proposals made by the committee. I understand you'll support it. I understand everything, please. [[12:03:27]] For 265 I'll take the order. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! It's a draft decree on the 170th anniversary of the birth of Nikola Vitaliovich Lysenka. Author: Vladimir Karpuk. The committee of Vladimir Yavorowski, I mean, heads of the committee. They accepted the offer to recommend and accept as a whole. Given, once again, the committee's proposals. No objections? I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals, [[Registration number 8759]] [[12:04:24]] For 282 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Now, the draft decree on the 150th anniversary of Nicholas Pimontenka's birth. Registration number 9060. The committee proposes to accept the committee as a whole, taking into account the committee’s proposals. The author of the project was Mikola Tomenko. I'm betting on a motion for a committee to adopt as a basis and as a whole of the draft regulation. [[Registration number 9060]] [[12:05:21]] For 287 Decision taken, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you a draft decree marking the 100th anniversary of Andrew Maliska's birth. The author of the project. Order Mikola Tomenko. The Committee has considered the draft Regulation in a comprehensive, profound and systematic manner and is of the view that it is appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[12:06:04]] For 289 Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u96	I really want to thank society for taking these very important cultural decisions so peacefully, which will still affect the cultural life of Ukraine. I am especially grateful that we have voted so cordially for the unique village that Ukraine has, Kosmach. This is one of the most distant and largest villages in Western Ukraine. A village famous for its embroidery, its writings, its products of folk art. And what for him, to celebrate this Jubilee, has cast so many votes, I'm very happy and happy. But I just want to add that the longest time the UPA was in Cosmach, right in the Kosmach Mountains. And they voted for it, and I am grateful that they voted. This village voted for the regionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u97	Dear National Deputies! () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! We've got an hour for the national MPs at the Vulnerable. Please register in order to allow the deputies to express their position within 13 hours of 10 minutes. Dear people's deputies, what's in the daytime, we've done everything. Now there's a storm, looking for a reason for Friday, believe me, we don't have to do this. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the performance. Names of the national deputies. Eugene Volintz, Communist faction, please. Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, our famous veterans! Parliamentary week ended and the draft State budget for Ukraine for 2012 was adopted on first reading. I would like to make some preliminary assessments of this financial constitution next year. As adopted by the State budget, it is totally unacceptable for veterans and other under-protected categories of the population. All the time, all peoples were considered to be tops of cynicism and demeanor. Regrettably, the 2012 draft of the main estimates puts its hands in the pockets of pensioners, veterans and disabled persons, other vulnerable categories of citizens. This applies to Chernobyl, war veterans, internationalist soldiers, children of war, victims of Nazi persecution. The net increase in payments, which would undoubtedly be inflationary, is presented as a great compromise. For example, the person with disabilities of war will receive a single payment for Victory Day for a whole and a half per cent more than this year, and it will amount to not 100 per cent, not 80 per cent, not 90 per cent of the rule of law, but only 15 per cent. Other categories of the population will also be benefited. On the eve of the draft budget, the authorities had re-emerged the traditional hysteria: Karaul, the concessionaires ate the entire budget. And they began to exercise the burden on the budget of veterans, pensioners and persons with disabilities. What would you like to say about this? First of all, it is an injury, because veteran benefits are a miserable part of the budget, totally incomparable with what power is spending on itself. Secondly, even if that were the case, to whom would a veteran seek protection if he had spent 40 to 50 years giving it to the State? Thirdly, the system of benefits is not the Soviet population, but the invention of the current post-Soviet Ukraine, because it was simply not necessary in Soviet times. Any veteran at the time, in Soviet times, was able to pay 3, 4, 5 copies for public transportation or 3-5 rubles for housing and utility services. That is why the faction of the Company of Ukraine did not support this document and believes that it is not acceptable for many categories in the form in which it was adopted as a basis. the concessional categories of Ukrainian citizens, and I very much hope that the proposals submitted by the faction will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u99	I'd like to invite Valery Kamchatny, the Reform Group for the Future. It will be followed by John the Rabbit, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! Our parliamentary group, Reforms for the Future, believes that it is necessary to draw your attention and attention to the public and public authorities to the problem of washing powders and other washing agents that are used in the production of phosphates. At first glance, it seems that this problem does not seem to be a priority, especially if you mention it. There are problems with gas prices, social pay problems, and so on. However, if we continue to ignore this problem, we are facing an environmental disaster that environmental scientists estimate could be consistent with the Chernobyl disaster. As a person with a higher technical chemical education, I can also confirm that. Ukraine’s current legislation does not prohibit the import and use of laundry powders containing up to 22 percent of phosphates, so today Ukraine has actually become a dump of environmentally hazardous foreign household chemistry with phosphates, chlorine, sulfates, silicates, and many other substances that are not biodegradable or dissolved in water. Researchers have found that the extensive use of synthetic cleaning agents has led to new types of chemical compounds toxic to biocensus, an active mule, in sewage. As a result, treatment plants are unable to ensure that sewage is treated to standard levels, thus destroying them. This situation in many Ukrainian cities poses a real threat to the existence of living and inanimate nature, a threat to life and health. I will look into Canadian scientists who have found that more than 10 percent of the pathology in newborn babies is caused by the very negative effects of phosphate powder on the mother’s body. In addition, the presence of phosphates in untreated sewage that enter rivers and ponds causes them to be infected with poisonous blue and green algae. Ukraine’s natural, self-cleaning biorecovery capacity for freshwater reservoirs has declined considerably since the use of phosphates and has been destroyed in some places. As a result, we have examples of the widespread death of fish every year, the water becoming unfit for use, and it is dangerous for human health and life. Economized countries that care for the health of their citizens have long followed a course of rejection of phosphate - containing laundromats. And in view of this, the MP's Reform for the Future urges the government to accelerate the introduction of a state-wide programme for reducing and phasing out the use of phosphate-based detergents in Ukraine, by the way, whose submission deadline ended on May 1st this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u101	I invite John the Rabbit, the faction "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense. He will be followed by Yuri Odarchenko, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u102	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I strongly protest against the repulsive revision of the European choice of the Ukrainian people. We see how the ruling regime today is torpedoing, in fact, the signing of an association agreement with the European Union, as well as agreements on a free trade zone with that organization. Otherwise, how can we appreciate the agreement signed by the Prime Minister of Azarov in St. Petersburg? We've long had a free trade zone within the SND countries, but it's not being implemented because Russia doesn't want to delete it. Get rid of gas, oil, our metallurgy, our sugar, sugar products, and so on. So why did Azarov sign this agreement? Clearly, to put obstacles in the European direction. Second, how to understand the statement made by the First Deputy Chief of the President's Administration, Ms. Yakimovova, who said that a free trade agreement could be signed first and then a political association. This is saying that this ruling regime doesn't want to change lives inside Ukraine itself, they want only economic benefits, but the European choice is that the Ukrainian nation needs to be modernized right inside the country itself. They don't need fair courts today, they don't need normal medicine today, they don't need a visa regime, because the ruling regime has diplomatic passports, they're all in power, and they have direct access to the West. And the common people have nothing to do with it: they have no fair trial, they have nothing. So you see what's going on, what's going on here? They want a free trade zone first, and there'll be a gang here, there'll be money running, there'll be gang rule. We are strongly protesting this approach and saying that the ruling regime, the power, the leadership of the state has finally come to realize that the policy of European choice is a civil choice, and it's not made by this or any other authority, it was made by the Ukrainian people back in 1991, when Ukraine's independence was voted and when the referendum was held on December 1st. Therefore, the authorities cannot simply change our choices; they cannot be guided only by their own personal interests. And whoever goes to the European elections will sooner or later run into the people’s will and respond to the full picture. The people will not retreat; they are no longer the Ukrainians who will now look silently, as they will continue to be oppressed in their country. So I'm protesting this inconsistent policy that we're observing today, and I'm urging the authorities to think about it. The policy of European choice remains the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u103	Thank you. I'd like to invite Yuri Odarchenka, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." It will be followed by Julia Kovalevska, a faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u104	The Fatherland Party. Yuri Odarchenko. Dear colleagues! When Janukovic tells us about the European choice, we all understand that these are empty words that are not supported by any action. And Victor Fedorovich has long demonstrated his true intentions to us. We see this under the Tax Code, which destroyed the self-occupied population, and this destruction continues. We see for his purposes how he destroys local self-government and because of the changes to the Budget Code, underfunding them, and through the budget, and how he destroyed local self-government in Kiev by placing Popov's puppet instead of bringing Chernevsky to justice and holding an honest election. Now the authorities are totally brutally changing the justice system, destroying it, and there is no such thing. We have an era of chivalry. On October 18 of this month, a court was held in the Supreme Administrative Court, which dealt with the Kiriev case, in which Kiriev was appointed to the office. Dear colleagues! Kiriev is a completely illegal, illegal judge. He did not hold any competitions, he did not pass exams, and the Pecher Court did not announce a vacancy. Every judge who's not part-time, when assigned to any of the positions, gives a test that confirms his qualifications. Kiriev had enough to write a statement, and I'm paying attention to where the President's name was, even though he had to write it to the High Council of Justice. And that was enough for a vacancy to take place, and he was assigned to this position, with one single purpose: to destroy the opposition and totally brutally, unjustly, to execute the sentence of Julia Timoshenko. And no matter what the title is, the Supreme Court of our country -- they had to consider this question, they didn't get to look at it essentially. What a tragedy it is for the court to consider essentially the right or wrong course of action for Kiriev. This had to be done because every next sentence, every next case that Kiriev considers, could be declared illegal. And this court, he got sick with the same thing, and he covered himself up with what seemed to be the President's orders over the month. As if every citizen had to know how Kiriev got there, whether he was going through the examinations or not. Today, President Yanukovic of Ukraine broke the judicial system of power, destroying the Supreme Court. And his only goal is to preserve himself in office, destroying the judiciary branch of power, so that there is no place to appeal, and a simple Ukrainian citizen had no right to the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u105	I invite Julia Kovalevsky, faction of the Party of the Regions. It will be followed by Yuri Hanustzak, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, distinguished TV and radio audiences! In the Ukrainian politics, there is a similarity: If loud calls are heard more and more from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, if the speeches become more and more populist and emotional, wait for the elections. Yeah, they're almost there. Perhaps that is why a debased position is increasingly critical of an active government rather than demonstrating constructive productive work. Your Honor, we're under the dome, but not the circus. Why turn the nation’s legislative body into a mess? That's where the logic is today? Invite the government, the minister of the interior, to ask him questions and not let him speak. Just look at the laws that oppose the consideration of the Supreme Council. By their colorful names, it's empty. Men like you, gentlemen, speak in the people: clap your tongue, not wave. Yesterday, you scolded the Ukrainian State Budget for 2012, so let me remind you that Timoshenko's government wasn't running the budget on time, was looking at it, and was in a hurry called "out of the wheel." There was also the fact that the country was governed in manual mode. And everything was good under the law, and right and right. It seems that opposition forces have forgotten the language of arrangements, a balanced constructive dialogue. Because they talk more and more ultimatums and requirements. You're just inciting the people with the demands to "give and make money from the state budget of Ukraine." And one of you had trouble calculating, at least roughly, how many budgets do you need to give and allocate everything to everyone? The budget is based, not on emotion, but on balanced economic calculations. And I think this project of the state budget is social. It is calculated at 377 billion dollars, of which 241 billion is social expenditure. It raises social standards and then increases social benefits. Such decisions taken to implement the Ukrainian President Janukovic programme have not been made throughout Ukraine's years of independence. The social cost of the budget is balanced and clearly linked to the economic recovery rate of Ukraine. The adoption of the budget in the first reading was an important step toward stability. So the main goal of the opposition -- to block the budget process now -- was the fiasco. The same fate will be met by the efforts of parliament’s early breakup. Despite all kinds of blockades, the Supreme Council will continue to work in plenary mode. Wasn't it your motto, gentlemen, that was famous: "The gangs are prisons! No, you're lying!"? Why is criticism now at your address, not to mention more decisively, you loudly call it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u107	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u108	Why do you now call criticism political persecution? Why are you trying to copy the law into one person so that he can avoid punishment? Respectable compatriots! A party of regions is a responsible and consistent political force. So we will keep all our promises to the electorate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u109	I'd like to invite Yuri Hanushtak, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u110	Dear Head, honourable deputies, ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday’s discussion of the State Budget project for 2012 demonstrated the continued deterioration of the budget system. The biggest achievement of the 2001 Budget Code, developed under the leadership of Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, was the establishment of an unbiased distribution of funds between regions, administrative and territorial units based on the formula. This is not the only successful reform in Ukraine that has unfortunately not been reinforced by reforms in other areas. Then we see the corrosion of the budget system. Initially, the schedule of educational expenses was distorted. Social protection programs were then transferred to local budgets, although this is a purely state authority, since self - government agencies have no influence on the design of these programs. The next sign of corrosion is subsidies for socio-economic development. They used to be divided between regions in proportion to the population, and within these quotas they were filled in by the project. Then there were additional subsidies without any justification. And in the 2012 budget project, subsidies are being allocated in general without any systemivity. But the worst part is that directly into the transfer calculation formula, they started to add amounts that without any justification. We see an apocryphal of this norm in the 2012 draft budget. Thus, health - care costs have arisen in terms of overcoming the environmental consequences. The legislative basis is the request of the Donetsk ODA. Costs of about a billion are distributed between five regions, whose left share has been given to an area representing the Party of Regions, as if there are no environmental problems in other areas. When this House voted on the Health Experimental Act in three areas, Kiev expressed the view that the real purpose of the Law was to extract additional funds from the State budget, which we are now seeing in the 2012 draft budget. For this experiment, whose purpose is, by the way, very doubtful, 1 billion has been allocated, including two thirds hidden in calculations, transfers. Under such circumstances, other areas would also be cool with experimenting. The Supreme Council is successively removed year after year from the budget process. This is unfortunate because the quality of the document, without its proper and broad discussion, is steadily falling. And once again, as a project, we're taking the 2012 budget. The 2010 budget code was developed by the government of Timoshenko and set a high standard for the quality of the country’s assets, but today’s government has proved intellectually weak to meet the requirements laid down in the code. Yes, budgeting should be based on social norms and standards. This really means choosing one rural budget, a district budget, a city budget of district importance, doing the calculation of the necessary costs according to all laws and regulations, getting the sum divided by the number of users of services and getting the necessary standard to distribute to everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u111	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u112	This is what is called the formation of the budget below, and what local leaders long dreamed of. It's not easy, but it has to be done. Sadly, however, today’s government lacks neither political will nor intelligence. What we have is what we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u113	I'd like to introduce you to Andrew Schleak. He will be followed by Antonin Bolour, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u114	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished radio audiences, television audiences, distinguished national MPs, of course, it's nice and interesting to always listen to numerous performances in the various authorities. And the more they become, the authorities, the different, yes, which is traditionally always used by the opposition, this is the main and, rather, the only sign of the nearness of the election. Because you need to enlighten yourself, there, a place on the list to kill, read something interesting from the rostrum, and accordingly bring it all down to the promises that the government will ever make. The budget is, the budget that finances the special departments, the police, the prosecutor's office, takes it all away from the common people. Of course, this budget does not forget the construction of helipads. Because how are we going to move to Europe without helicopters? I just can't imagine. It was all those other countries that were advancing through some innovative technology. And we're going to use helicopters to move there. Another aspect. The nearness of the election immediately means that we must press on the opposition. Because the opposition, of course, is the only competitor in power. What a colossal mechanism the present authorities have devised. What should be done with the leader of the opposition? To put him in prison and thus prevent him from organizing and securing an electoral campaign in Ukraine. But believe me, it's gonna be okay. This gives you an idea that you put someone in prison and that the question is exhausted. It was you who set the example of the past. For you, it was the universities of the prison. For us, these are the trials we're going through. And believe me, you're going to be as receptive as you've ever expected in the near future. Because all of these stories about moving into the European Union, there, I don't know, stories about someone not wanting to write in the Association Agreement a separate paragraph, special for today's President or current power, that they're going to be in the European Union someday. It is the present - day power in the European Union that will never be! Ukraine will. But only when it changes the active power. Because all the signals that the European Union sent you, we didn't get it. You're used to it, the current authority is used to only taking two forms of signaling: a baseball bat or an electric current. Believe me, the time will come for this too. Because the current state of affairs in relations between the European Union and Ukraine does not foresee a game of thimbles. You've played in your youth political and now you're playing with them. You must grow out of a state when you thought you could fool everyone. Now you're trying to fool the Ukrainian people, you're trying to fool the European Union. Believe me, you're not gonna make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u115	I'd like to invite you to Antonina Boloura, the "BOUT" faction, "Fatherland." She'll be followed by Oleg Tishenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u116	Dear fellow countrymen, the budget that we've been discussing for several weeks, and yesterday it was accepted in the first reading, is expected to generate an income of 38 billion dollars more. So how are we going to use this small amount, on one side, but also on the other? There is a substantial increase in the cost of maintaining the force, police structures, the judicial system, which began two years ago. These structures have 35 billion dollars. Is that a lot or a lot? Everything is recognized in comparison. A few examples. Compared to the Ministry of Defence, this is twice as much as the Ministry of Defence, 3.6 times less for health care, 5.4 billion less for education. There is no previously promised 50 per cent reduction in the cost of maintaining the authorities in connection with the administrative reform carried out in the draft budget. And there's no cost reduction in this area at all. Moreover, to maintain the Presidential Administration even more than it did last year. A few comparisons. In order to ensure the operation of closed specialized medical facilities and their health-care and prevention programmes for the Supreme Council, Kabmin, the Office of the President, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Defence is financed with a total of 2.6 billion dollars. Almost the same amount of $2.8 billion is allocated to financing expenses for all state - owned medical facilities. That's a comparison. Funding for measures to combat tuberculosis, AIDS, oncosa, has been reduced, as statistics of these diseases in Ukraine have increased. For the sanatorium and disability treatment, the amount is projected, you just have to think about it, 9 percent of what you need. No funding is provided for the housing of the first - group disabled, the blind and the deaf. Where is the spirituality of this budget? Social benefits for Afghans and black people remain a major issue. This is yesterday's theme, and it's not budgeted for these needs. There is no adequate support for young people, both in education, in employment, and in the organization of their adult lives. The entire budget burden is placed on the shoulders of a small and socially unprotected part of the population. Such a budget, given that the unforeseeable support for economic development, the agri-industrial complex, science, the excessive centralisation of budgetary resources, with high rates of borrowing, both external and internal, is inefficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u117	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u118	will complicate the situation in all areas of social life. Such a budget is a crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u119	I'd like to invite Oleg Tishchenka, the "BUT" faction. It will be followed by Eugene Kzarykov, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u120	Thank you. Oleg Tishchenko's Fatherland Party. Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! Respectable citizens! I'm talking about specific examples of reprisals. On September 5, 2011, my assistant consultant, Opaldimir Grigorovitch, was unjustifiably detained by Berkut, as if for setting up a tent on the opposite side of the Pecher Court. While this tent was set up on September 1st by me personally, and the assistant, by my command, was merely carrying out the personal receptions of the citizens and leaving the tent when the Berkutu fighters began to destroy it, i.e. to destroy the property of the Ukrainian people's deputy. At my assistant’s request to present the documents and explain the reasons for their actions, he was forced into a car accident and delivered to the Shevchenk district office of Kyiv. And the next day, the Shevchenkov District Court was found guilty of allegedly unsanctioned setting up tents, holding a rally that was not there, and resisting a militia that he did not carry out. In doing so, I was not informed, as a national deputy of Ukraine, of his detention in violation of part five of article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. I would like to point out that the setting up of tents and the reception of citizens was arranged in an orderly manner. So the reasons for the Bercuta actions remain unclear. On October 11th of this year, there was almost a similar incident with my other assistant consultant, Oshtuk Ivan Ionović, when during another perfectly legitimate protest campaign on Khreshticki Street, which was filed and not indicted by KMDA in court, he was also detained and transported by car to the same RVD. And the next day, with his time in the police force, the Shevchenkov District Court found him guilty also of seemingly obstructing traffic on Krestets Street, the military border breakout, and the opposition of the militia. This time, as a national deputy of Ukraine, I was also not informed of the arrest of my assistant. The police do not for the first time commit illegal acts against innocent citizens, falsify protocols, reports, testimonies, and bring them to justice, following the criminal orders of their commanders, who hide and stay away, never introduce themselves or explain anything. I appeal to the Minister of Internal Affairs and to the commission of inquiry that we have formed, please take under personal control a thorough examination of the issues that have been violated by me and similar questions about the individual violations of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens by officials subordinated to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u121	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u122	a subordinate minister of internal affairs, officials, and appropriate response measures, to rule out similar cases in the future. Please consider this statement to be my official request to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u123	Please form an appropriate parliamentary request from the National MP Tischenka. I'd like to invite Eugene Kraskov, a faction of Communists. He will be followed by Paul Silent, "Reforms for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, respected TVs, on behalf of the faction of the Compartium of Ukraine, as well as 85,000 Ukrainian citizens, I would like to inform you that, not too long ago, we, the representatives of the CHR factions, have been transferred to the US Embassy at the request of the activists of the Association of Friendships of Ukraine-Cuba, representatives of a number of Ukrainian public political organizations, 85,000 signatures collected in our country, under the appeal of President Obama on the early release of illegal arrests 12 years ago by Cuban citizens living in the United States, who have gathered numerous incidents of terrorist training against both the Cuban people and the Cuban authorities and leaders of other countries. But instead of placing the real terrorists making the attacks in U.S. prisons, these heroes were put in jail. That is, the reaction continues its puppet policy. And it's no secret to anyone that it's the U.S. and West Special Forces who grew up and fed Osama bin Laden first to fight the Soviets in Afghanistan, then the Bushes decided their interests with Saddam Hussein, and they raised Mubarak and had business interests through France with Gaddafi, and then they got dealt with them. In view of the fact that the President of Ukraine is currently in the Socialist Republic of Cuba, and also, as President, Obama himself has promised to resolve the Cuban issue, on behalf of 85,000 citizens, I would like to write to you with my letter. And I convey the wishes of these 85,000 Ukrainian citizens who ask you to inform the President of the United States of Cuba that these signatures are a willful act of Ukrainian citizens, gathered from Lviv to Donetsk, from Sum to Odessa for four months, and to bring this information to the attention of the President and Congress of the United States. In this way, we will show to the world that Ukraine is not only among those who advocate justice, but will also be a key indicator of the gratitude and authorities of Ukraine, the people of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, for the free assistance provided by the Socialist Republic of Cuba in the matter of treatment, I stress that 24,000 of our children affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Please consider my statement as a request or a request to the Administration of the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u125	Please provide an appropriate request. I'd like to invite Paul Silent, the "Reform for the Future" faction. He will be followed by Andrew Pavlovski, "BUT – "Fatherhood".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u126	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday, a round table was held in the walls of Ukrainform on the theme: "Ukraine is the heiress of the Kyiv Russia." What is the reason for this? And because of the efforts of some chauvinist circles in Russia, a decree was signed by the President of the Russian Federation to mark Russia next year in the 1150s of the Russian "Statehood". In this regard, it has already been published in a very complete way. a whole set of releases started. For example, the book came out like this. Oleg to Putin, who is referred to as a prince who has no relation, the prince of Kiev, no relation to Moscow, to Moscow, to all that is called today's Russia. "The legendary Prince Oleg. Can we call it the first Russian, do you hear? - a national actor. For more than 30 years, he worked on building the country, subjugating neighboring tribes and building cities. And although the figure of this prince seems to be still dismal over the centuries, it is he who laid the first stone on the foundation of Russian statehood." The falsification of history takes place in a frenzy. And yesterday, on the round table, leading Ukrainian scientists, historians warned the Russian authorities of counterfeiting that took on national proportions. If, on our part, the minister of education writes a common story, a joint textbook on Ukraine-Russia, yesterday was told by the leading historians of Ukraine, archaeologists, that these are colossal violations to which the Ukrainian community should react. And one of the speakers was a washed-up academic named Predko, who said that Ukraine's independent is just a new stage in the continuous development of Ukrainian statehood. And if you go up on the third floor, you'll see a picture of "Who's in the Kingdom." Kye and Asold are the founders of Ukrainian statehood, which has been around for 1,500 years or more. But Ukraine is a new stage, and that's what was said. And there can't be a single textbook in common -- that's what the scientists have been talking about. The activity of the Russian kings, who are now being supported and exalted, and in Ukraine, including Catherine and Peter the First, this activity of the destruction of Ukraine consistently, all its national institutions, all systems: education, language, books, all the information spheres that were. And so yesterday's round table work, which will now be in constant form, we're warning the Russian authorities, especially ours, that we will contribute to the integration processes that have begun.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u127	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u128	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u129	I'd like to invite Andrew Pavlovsky, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Yuri Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u130	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Julius Timoshenko" – "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! School biology knows that a parasite is called the one who lives at the expense of others, at the expense of his master’s body. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the people are the bearer of authority. What has the current oligarch authority prepared for the master people? Takes on the basis of the 2012 budget, which meets all the demands of the oligarchy clan and solves all problems at the expense of ordinary citizens; more money is spent on the maintenance of bureaucratic equipment than on all social programs. Only one Janukovich is planned for maintenance from the State budget for one and a half billion dollars. He didn't have any Megirrhea, didn't have any gold toilets?Oh, my God! But that's not enough, they're planning on taking out the Ukrainians, paying the benefits. It was only by blocking yesterday's faction of the Yulia Timoshenko- "Fatherland" that the issue was put off. And the pensioners will never see in this budget 1,000 200 dollars promised by Yanukovic. The total of 822 is going to be one and a half times less than promised. Clearly, the anti - national policy of competent social parasites is justly indignant. And to defeat the wave of popular protest, Yanukovitch dropped out early for playing the leaders of the opposition: Julius Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenko, others But even after the imprisonment of Julia Timoshenko, Janukovic continues to fear her panic, as evidenced by the discovery of all new and new cases, one more absurd to the other. But Julia is not broken, she holds on, and she urges us from prison to continue fighting for her rights, for human dignity, for the European future of our country. Julia is and remains the main opponent of the Janukovitch criminal-pagan regime, she's the leader of the opposition, she's the leader of the largest party of the Fatherland. And the Fatherland Party will do everything to free our country from criminal occupation. Juli will! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u131	I'd like to invite Yuri Gnatkiewich, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Raisa Soroczynska-Kyrilenko, "Reforms for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u132	Yuri Gnatkevitch, "BUT is the Fatherland". Now the judiciary and the system are barking not only to the MPs, but now the judicial system is barking and the people are barking. You know, as a man who didn't have to deal with the courts, the last time I was tried, I was 18, a student for anti-Soviet agitation, but I said in court that I wouldn't, I cried, and our humane Soviet Court replaced me with a suspended sentence. You know, the honourable colleagues who are addressing us with thousands of people who are violating their rights, particularly their rights in the courts, especially our committee, the Human Rights Committee. I remember one case that came to me by a man from Ravenna County, that's my district for which I'm responsible, and he said his judges had been harassing him for more than two years. Well, we can't intervene, but we can advise, the assistants advise something, and that man was acquitted by the Court of Cassation, and he came to thank us. You know, I used to think it was a court of law. You go to court, it's like church. Only in the church. Well, God punishes sins that can only be redeemed, and judgment punishes crimes. Now I don't think so. Imagine, the head of the district appeal court is like a holy man and he's Christmasing. And not only is he Christmasing, but he was resting on his own, thanking God, for 10 years. The main problem, my fellow officials, is not only today that the authorities have seized power through the courts, but also that the courts themselves have spread out, they have come out of all national and other control, even at times of power. You see, we've given them this indulgence: we choose them in our lives to make it impossible for the pressure of power to be exerted. What did we do? We made it impossible for them to depend on the law. They ignore procedural norms, not just laws, but especially procedural ones, as they wish. Publicity is a simple thing, the openness of power. We have been promised by the President, the guarantor of our rights and freedoms, that there will be an open trial against Yulia Timoshenko. In fact, only the microphones were opened before television and prosecutors. My assistant, it's already small things, but they're marked on public grounds, went to court, there's something a neighbor said he stole the phone. So the judge kicked her out of the hall, using the militia. In the Court of Solomon, there was a case involving me in a sad case involving my family. Judge Cheredenko, when she found out that my assistant was sitting there, said, "What are you doing here playing games?" Wasn't she right? By the way, I didn't send her. I'm a lexicographer myself. I didn't find the word "poison." My mom, I think. It was synonymous with the word: ‘ Walking by the big one. ’ Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u133	We'll thank you. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u134	We're living on Obolona and there's so many calls in the Supreme Council. I'm not one of those people. The volume and openness must be complete. Anyone can go to court and listen to the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u135	I'd like to invite Sorochinsky Raisa Kirilenko, group of Reforms for the Future. She was followed by Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u136	Dear citizens of Ukraine! The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future expresses concern at the unsatisfying pace of health reforms. The health system that we inherited from Soviet times has long exhausted itself and is unable to stop the rapid depopulation of the population. Yes, according to the United Nations Human Development Report, life expectancy in Ukraine has decreased by 10 years over the past 40 years and is now 68 years. Then, for example, in Sweden, 80. And the reason is not only in the socio-economic and political disasters that our society has been going through for over two decades. First of all, the problem is that the health situation has actually become self - propelled. Poor medicine, unhealthy lifestyles, drunkenness, smoking have led Ukrainians among the most sick nations in Europe and the world. If in 1975 the death rate for cardiovascular diseases in Ukraine was the lowest in Europe, now, according to the Ministry of Health, it is 64 and in Europe it is 27. Ukraine is leading Europe in terms of the number of people with AIDS, tuberculosis. The trend of further deterioration in health has led to a weaker generation of Ukrainians each year than before. Yes, according to the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, in the past 10 years school - age children have become sick for nearly a third more often and die in physical education. Today, it is clear that we will not be able to break this situation quickly. Today, however, our changes can have a positive effect in the near future. This is primarily about promoting a healthy way of life that needs to be put on the level of public policy. A healthy lifestyle should be introduced in society, especially among young people, and the fight against alcohol, drugs, and smoking must be intensified. The MP's Reform Group for the Future is convinced that the system's work on the implementation of the above measures, namely, stopping the infectious plague in the country, will enable our children to be vaccinated. Don't spend 40 percent of your time buying drugs and vaccines. Bury Tamiflu and repair those cars.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, come on, because we still have the opportunity to speak in most of the audience, follow the rules. Oleg Lazko, non-factional. Behind him is Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT is "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u138	Oleg Lazko. The draft budget bill for 2012 adopted by Parliament yesterday in its first reading, if adopted without significant changes, will make the poor even poorer and the rich even richer. As in the current year, forced removals of money from workers and businesses will be directed towards waste of power and payment for the support of the nearby oligarchs. And those who have created these costs by hard work will get even less than today: a meager allowance, an increase in consumer prices and utility tariffs. Thus, the minimum pension received by most pensioners will be increased by only 7 percent and will amount to only 869 dollars by the end of 2012. The minimum wage will only increase by 5.5 percent. Even though the government will not be able to maintain inflation at this level under any circumstances, the law already provides for a reduction in social security. This is a direct violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, the authorities continue to fatten and plan unscrupulous waste. In the following year, more than 1 billion dollars are being raised to 4 billion dollars for the government’s administration. The funding of the Attorney General’s Office is increasing to 2.5 billion dollars. Up to 15 billion dollars from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the police have already been compared with the Armed Forces. The government’s management of the affairs of President Yanukovic was set to set aside 1.5 billion dollars for the following year. One hundred and fifty million dollars are available for medical treatment for all war veterans and disabled persons in Ukraine. This year alone, the medical services of MPs and officials amount to 300 million dollars, and the following year, 465 million dollars. Compared to health care for the rest of the Ukrainians, the government offers 7 billion dollars or 150 dollars a year for each Ukrainian. People’s deputies, including those who have luxury apartments in Kiev, are budgeted to continue to pay for their living in a one - name hotel. Such comparisons can be made, and they all show that the 2012 budget is antisocial and anti-national. Therefore, the radical party requires the government to increase social standards for Ukrainian citizens by at least 15-20 per cent for 2012 while the draft budget is being finalized, thanks to a radical reduction in expenditure on the maintenance of state authorities and the luxury of its paratroopers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u139	Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich, for keeping the order. Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction. He will be followed by Vladimir Leschchenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u140	From this rostrum, the Ukrainian people had just lamented that he was dying. So what are you running from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko to the faction that helps this people to die?Oh, my God! But that's not what I'm talking about. Otteren, today's president's advisor, if I'm not mistaken, when, some years ago, two or three more years ago he was in opposition, he said a phrase that I like very, very much. A party of regions for him appears to be a dinosaur with a huge clumsy body, a very tiny head with very little gray matter. That's not what Yavorowski said, once again, that's what Vidrin said. I think he's right. We understand very well that I have just had a colleague here who was talking about how much the power of money is eating up on itself today, just the glutton of power, and probably the richest. Because our President has 13 residences, and a huge Russia with oil, gas, forest and so on has only 10. I'm not talking about European countries anymore. As a result, indeed, the richest power in one of the poorest countries, the poorest. I want to draw your attention to one document that I hold in my hands. It's called "The address of the leader of the Yanukovic Party of Regions to Chernobyl," which is 2009 when he was still a candidate. "23 years ago, at the cost of your health, you honoured your civic duty and saved millions of lives. Today, the State has left you without support. I assure you that as soon as we change this corrupt and unfulfilled people's hopes of power, you will be returned to everything provided for by the laws of Ukraine.” And yesterday, the Chernobyls tried to break under the Supreme Council to play by which the Supreme Council today and these people were constrained. Because of the fact that we have the richest power and the poorest people, it's one thing. But I wanted to make another point from this rostrum today. We have the most lying power, the most lying power. I don't know if there's any more lies in the world than that. Where they won't go, they promise, they promise. Tomorrow we're going to Europe, we're up after lunch, we're kicking the back of the head, we're going the other way. That's why I want to remind them, boys and girls, they come into politics with a huge future, and they come out of it with a shameful past. That's where you're headed. What you've done with Julia Timoshenko, you can't imagine what you've done for yourself. She'll come out of there, and I'm sure, and she'll be out soon, and she'll be out of Ukraine, and she'll be the just President of Ukraine. Hail Julia Timoshenko!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u141	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. I'd like to invite Vladimir Leschenko, a faction of Communists. It will be followed by Oreste Mutz, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u142	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! As Ukrainian national deputy, I was outraged by the village of Desna Kozeletsky, in the Chernigiv region of Ustinov, Alexander Lvović. He reported that during almost a year, a team of 63 U.S. Department of Defense's Sanitary Epidemiological Laboratory, located in this village, was seeking to establish order and enforce legality in the military unit mentioned above. About the gross violations of the work, the acquisition of state funds, the mundane treatment of the service, and the abuse of the former head of the Sosnicki laboratory, they first turned to the right-wing garrison military prosecutor’s office. Immediately, an active test was started, which then became unwarranted. Then, with the help of an end to abuses, the teams approached the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense. No action was taken. I had to go to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Administration of the President of Ukraine. In early 2011, an audit was carried out by the regional North East KRU of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. The vast majority of the facts have been confirmed. In 2009-2010 alone, Sosnicky was awarded some 24,000 dollars. A draft order for the release of Maj. Sosnicky was submitted by the Head of the CoR for official inadequacy. But thanks to his patrons at the Ministry of Defense, he remained in the ministry. Only after the intervention of the Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine was Simonek Petar Mikolaiovich Sosniecki released from the grips of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. But again, thanks to his patrons, he was released as a decent officer, with a pension, an exit aid, a right to wear a uniform. But in revenge, the position of initiator at 63 Ustinov Sanitary Epidemiology Lab has been reduced to avoid exposure. These events caused outrage among the inhabitants of the village of Rightna and the military. Ustinov calls for a review of the decision made by Sosnické, for him to be called to account, and for a reinstatement of the abbreviated position. By supporting Ustinov in this, I appeal to the minister of defense of the Ukraine of Ezekiel. Dear Michael Bronislavovich! Please study the matter carefully and take steps to comply with the current legislation of Ukraine. My statement is considered a parliamentary request to the minister of defense of the Ukraine of Ezekiel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u143	Please prepare appropriate queries. I'd like to invite Oreste Mutz, the faction of the Party of the Regions. It'll be the hour of "Razne" Jaroslav Kendzior, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! Earthlings! Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovic identified national priority projects. One of them is the Clean City project, which has to solve the problem of waste disposal. A red - language example of its relevance is Ternopolska, where most garbage dumps are in poor condition, two thirds do not meet the basic requirements of environmental safety. There are only 11 passports from the 31st garbage range. At the very district center, the former orange authorities turned the problem into such a dead end that there was a time when the garbage from Ternopolis was stopped altogether, creating a real threat to the epidemic of infectious diseases. Even further, the local authorities today decided to rob the common peasants by eyeing the area of the village of Vanjulov Lanovecki. Officials do not even stop that this land cannot be used under any parameters to store household waste. In addition, natural watercourses pass through the land that they want to turn into garbage, and there is an artesian well next to it. This greed justly angered the rural community. The villagers approached me as a national deputy asking me to solve the problem. I fully support my countrymen and their position. "Fight! Fight! Fight!"," urged our prophet, the great Taras Shevchenko. No one has the right to seek the safety and health of people. The will of the rural community must be a law for officials. I'm talking to the district attorney, the head of the environmental inspection, the heads of the government, and I want you to take control of the legality of the situation in the village of Vanjul. I also ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine to help Ternopol, who was once a model of well-being, cleanliness, to solve the problem of garbage disposal, because the current city authorities are unable to do so by their own means. In the West of Ukraine, it is customary to call for the power and community to clean up their farms. I wanted us to keep these customs in mind and not to throw garbage around every house. Ladies and gentlemen, as a national deputy, I promise to make every effort not to allow the garbage disposal to be placed and the problem to be solved for your benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u145	I invite Jaroslav Kendzior, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u146	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine!".. Dear friends, I want to raise a rather unusual question today, an unusual problem, this is, in my opinion, the biggest provocation, the biggest affair in 20 years of Ukraine's independence. I mean, this unique journalistic material, this journalistic investigation that was done by journalists in the Lviv newspaper "Express" about the so-called professor of neurosurgeons, this brilliant man with the "genius" abilities of Andri Slusarczuk. You might not mention it, just enjoy it. But when a journalist's investigation finds in his paper that the activity of this adventurer, who has PTU education and the specialty of painters and plasterers, and this person has called himself a neurosurgeon and from where, according to journalists in his investigation mostly from Moscow, brings in various psychotropic substances, drugs, and cures, and makes procedures for people. And they give examples of outright murder, as a result of those procedures, of people. So all of this is happening in Lviv, in the territory of Lviv, in other areas of Ukraine. When a person uses all this adventure just to steal huge money, because when he requires it, this pseudologist, a pseudonym surgeon, demands huge money in exchange for people who are already suffering from an incurable disease, and, as it were, frightens those who are completely healthy, but frightens them by the presence in their body of some kind of mythical incurable disease, and it enriches them in that way. But again, it might be possible to talk about this man's social danger, but when, according to the Express newspaper, that this brilliant genius and professor of neurosurgeon for 13 years went into interrogation, he was on a non-refoulement contract, he was reported for criminal investigation several times, and when their investigation proves that this person is directly linked to a police assault.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u147	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u148	Let me finish, Mr. Mikolo. That this person has been bound and running unpunished, and is conducting his medical, so-called, practice for many years in connection with what is the patronage of police personnel, prosecutors, the Security Service, and today these law enforcement agencies are doing anything but the prevention of our society to eliminate such a dangerous person as this pseudo-surgeon, pseudo-professor and scientist. And another unique, as it were, is the fact of this study. Journalists claim that the two diplomas of Moscow Medical and Vinicko Medical Institute are false. The only thing that's not fake is a professor's certificate issued by the Ministry of Education of Ukraine under the leadership of a famous comrade of Tobacco. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u149	People’s MP John Popescu has a minute to reply.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u150	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. My fellow dignitaries, I would like to point out that yesterday when we considered the State Budget Bill 2012 we should have mentioned that we also adopted the State Economic Social Development Programme 2012. And we had to reconcile these documents because the budget had to be balanced. Although the program approved the sites offered by the Chernobyl region, some of them did not find reflection. This is first of all. Schools in the village of Jordinesti in the region of Głbobeck and Ternauk in the region of Hercea need funding – 5 million and respectively 8 million, 2 kindergartens in the village of Stanowec – 3 million 300,000, and 7 million 873,000 in the village of Spristeni in the region of Głobecko. Regrettably, amendment 12.28 was not voted on, which envisaged additional subsidies for the region of Chernobyl for socio-economic development amounting to 83.2 million, which allowed the financing of these objects, and amendment 12.29 on the issue of the Montenegrin Subsidy Region for the implementation of the first-line anti-resistance measures for 58.3 million dollars. On the basis of the above, I refer to the Budget Committee and to the Cabinet of Ministers, and especially to the Ministry of Finance, to take into account when preparing for the second reading of the State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2012.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u151	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u152	Amendments 12.28 and 12.29 to Bill No. 9000. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-21-m0.u153	Please prepare an appropriate request. Dear colleagues, the hour has ended for the question of "Victory." Let me remind you that next week the national MPs are working with the electorate. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday 1 November at 10 a.m., and the day before Monday, October 31st, will normally be the 11th meeting of the Conciliation Council. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck.
