ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[10:00:33]] There are 388 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, let's welcome Michael Ivanovich Mironenko, his birthday today. [[Applause]] And let me inform you about the results of the work of the Supreme Council at the plenary meeting on 15 November, yesterday. You and I have discussed 70 issues of the agenda -- this is probably the record of their consideration: 5 laws and 3 decrees adopted, 11 bills adopted on the basis, one bill sent to the committee to prepare for re-reading, two bills returned to the subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, 12 bills and one draft decree rejected; and one bill was rejected by the President of Ukraine: one law was adopted in general, taking into account the President's proposals and one law rejected. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies on proposals, announcements, statements, messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please, Yavorowski. Get ready for Komara. Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u2	Dear compatriots! Yesterday, in the Supreme Council, there was a chance to show not only Ukraine but also the entire world community that Ukraine is a European state; that it clearly implements the laws adopted and voted in this Hall on the principles of foreign policy, where it is clearly stated that Ukraine chooses European choice. It was hoped that President Janukovic of Ukraine, who assured the European states that he was building a democratic country, would today implement the decision of the European Parliament and the Recommendation of the European Parliament regarding the need to stop the political repression in Ukraine, would have to release the political prisoners who were suffering today because he was afraid of opposition and wanted to form a system in which he would be in power for many years. Respectable compatriots! Today, we can clearly say that power in Ukraine today has been taken over by an organized criminal group called the "Party of Regions" led by Viktor Yanukovic. Having come to power under false terms, using the democratic procedures provided by the qualad Ukrainian democracy, Janukovic immediately began to destroy this democracy. By raping the Constitution in force at that time, he used the Constitutional Court to throw it out as unnecessary, giving himself powers that the electorate did not give him. From now on, there is no independent branch of power in Ukraine, and all the authorities are subordinated to one man, President Janukovic. The Supreme Council is a printing work where most print the laws and regulations that he needs. The Constitutional Court has turned into an escort agency that serves Yanukovic without reservation. The law - enforcement authorities, who had not met their name too well before that, had finally turned into punishments. The judicial system, which was once rotten, corrupt, became a tool of repression after the so - called judicial reform. In a civilized world, this is called a constitutional coup for the purpose of usurping power and is considered the most serious State crime, and the accomplices to this crime, apart from Victor Yanukovich, are the Constitutional Judges of the Court, the National Deputies, including the carcasses that voted for this lawlessness. And we need to be absolutely clear that this repressive machinist, who today concerns Julius Tymoshenko, is going to be touching every Ukrainian that this authority considers to be unnecessary. Unless a repressor has touched extra people, pensioners who are now being thrown out as useless, or entrepreneurs who are being strangled today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u3	Thank you. Mikola Komar, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u4	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Please give the floor to Deputy Kinah Anatoly Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u6	Honorable national MPs, respected citizens, regardless of the strong political debates that take place both in the Supreme Council and in the state, we are confident that there are priorities that should unite all, regardless of political colour and conjunctivity. There are very complex processes in the world. Erosona, one of our very own. markets, they're going through a very difficult period, they're going to slow down the pace of the global economy. And, of course, Ukraine, which forms about 50 percent of the gross domestic product at the expense of exporters, depends directly on the external economic situation. But in this difficult situation, we find it absolutely unacceptable to deepen the moods of disaster, destabilize society and destabilize the situation as a whole. World experience also confirms that only consolidated states, but the joint system-wide high-professional actions of the President, the Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers and the support of society are a guarantee worthy of a solution to complex crises. And we cannot repeat the bitter experience of 2009 when Ukraine lost 22 percent of industrial production and 15 percent of gross domestic product. Therefore, at the end of this year in particular, the creation of basic parameters for Ukraine's socio-economic development policy for 2012, it is crucial that we combine our efforts with the government and address the most important problems that affect all aspects of the life of our society and the development of the state. This is, first of all, the implementation of effective measures to change to a positive situation in the negative external trade balance, and this is a powerful work to improve the capacity of the internal market, localization of production, import of substitution. Of course, a highly effective credit policy is essential, and here's a word for Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank of Ukraine in order to ensure progressive access to real-economy credit resources. Entrepreneurship, the middle class adopted by the Supreme Council, Law 8521 provides unique opportunities for the further development of small business in Ukraine and the formation of a powerful middle class. Of course, it's an investment climate. Therefore, honourable national deputies, now more than ever, must unite their efforts and create all the prerequisites for the worthy development of our nation for the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u7	Thank you. Irina Heratchenko. Get ready, Vashtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u8	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Today's meeting of the Supreme Council began with the brainwashing information from the first vice-speaker who struck yesterday in the Supreme Council, we discussed 70 laws. I want to say that we're going to have a lot more brown shock days this year, because the way they look at it, we can also look at 2,000 laws a day. And I want to point out that yesterday, when we were looking at the key to European integration, the law to which the opposition developed 150 amendments was not adopted. In general, there is no longer a need for opposition in this room. None of the amendments, even if it's just about a coma, are accepted in this room. You know, there's a lot of veterans here, including from the Party of Regions, who for 20 years have been ghosts working in this room. Please tell me, has there ever been such an attitude towards opposition in this room, when the part of the hall that today represents 70 percent of the Ukrainian society that does not accept today's authority is not able to carry out any of its amendments at all? And we come up with a situation where there's not a country of regions in the country, but a country of the Party of Regions. And now I want to draw attention, first of all, to a colleague of television and radio, who, by the way, is celebrating their professional holiday today, to a very important topic. [[Thank the journalists for inspiring me to learn about this topic]] Do you know, your honor, that now the offices of the Party of Regions are breaking up in our schools? In particular, from Crimean journalists, I received such information that the Crimea Schools have regional deputies’ offices from the Party of the Regions. After a request was made to the prosecutor’s office, of course, the answer came: There is no such thing. But there are photographs. I received similar information today from the Mikolai region. Moreover, local authorities have decided, in the public domain, to hang relevant information about these host members of the Party of the Regions at schools on their website. I'm waiting for answers from the D.A.'s office, and I want to see how this information is going to be destroyed on city-head sites now. And there's another important piece of information. Dear colleagues, we're becoming a totalitarian country that just does what it does on all the files. We know that banks today require a record of customers whose party they are. Today we have received information from two parts of Kiev: the Shevchenkov district and the Darnitsky region, where preparations for the elections have already begun. The teachers of these schools and the directorates are forced to provide information to all children and their parents, who are studying, where and what address the diagnosis is in the children, what members of the party are their parents. Please tell us what our country is turning into. I want to draw the attention of both society and the Supreme Council, and, above all, journalists. Thank you for your attention. We just have to stop it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u9	Katerina Vaszczuk, faction of the People's Party, followed by Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u10	Catherine Vasuk, faction of the People's Party, Volin. Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! I want to talk to you today, and especially to those who meet each day with the sun, meet it in the field or on the farm, or at work on their garden, and work like this all year. On the eve of the Day of Agricultural Workers, I would like to welcome, on behalf of my fellow deputies, all who feed the Ukrainian State with a professional holiday for agricultural workers. [[Applause]] And I want to draw the attention of all of us, dear colleagues, to the debts we have today in front of the villagers. As soon as we adopt this year, soon, the Budget Act, we must not forget with you and support the proposals of those deputies who care for the village. Spending money on rural roads, on rural schools, on rural medicine, because Ukraine, which wants to be a European state, can only become a country where its farmer, a peasant, is respected in the country. And this week, we have a great obligation to adopt the law and to return to the peasants what was taken last year, namely, a tax on added value, which dairy and meat farmers gave to farmers as a subsidy to the price. Dear colleagues, there are 4.9 million cattle in Ukraine today, 2.9 million cows. Where are we going? Shortening is already done dozens of times, and without this law it will continue. Taxes on added value should go to every farmer individually, to a farmer, to a direct farm, without collecting centrally in the Ministry of Finance. Because everything that's then shared doesn't come from a peasant. So, dear fellows, I ask you very much to give us our gift for the holidays.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u11	Thank you. Catherine Timofievna, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u12	Our gift to the festival is to pay back the value added tax — almost a thousand dollars — to every peasant family growing milk and meat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u13	Cowchuck, please. Behind him is Sidelnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u14	Basil Krawczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." I was asked by the members of the Slavutsk City Council of the Hmelnicki District to publish from the Supreme Council's rostrum the address adopted by the Session of the Slavutsk City Council, the President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is what I do. The trial of the leader of the opposition in Ukraine, ex-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, who, to the conviction of most Ukrainians and by the definition of leaders of the leading countries of the world, is the leader of influential international organizations, is a political persecution, a sign of a collapse in Ukraine of democracy and a growing adherence to authoritarianism. The authorities that are prosecuting the opposition in the face of its leader, Yulia Timoshenko, are eager to intimidate all those who do not agree with the authorities, to sow fear and despair among the Ukrainians, to force the people to accept all acts of authority, even when the Ukrainian national identity is openly and knowingly destroyed. Therefore, we have no moral right to remain silent when there is abuse of justice, when representatives of the opposition who are capable of telling the truth today are subjected to political and criminal persecution. We don't want to live in a society where justice is selective, where laws are written for the needs of individuals and one party, where a citizen of the state feels vulnerable and no one cares about his interests. We are concerned about the Ukrainian perspective because we realize that Ukraine’s desire to join the European Union, in view of the latest political developments, is becoming premarital. We do not want to find ourselves in international isolation, as has been the case with some states, because in the light of the nearness of the 2012 parliamentary elections, the non-admission of the opposition to democratic elections will inevitably lead to a lack of recognition by the European Union of the legitimacy of power formed by the results of the elections. Members of the Slavut City Council refer to the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovic, and reminds us that he is the guarantor of compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly defines Ukraine as a democratic state, where the rule of law should apply. We appeal to Parliamentarians of the European Union, international organizations with requests, and continue to take a clear position and make an objective assessment of compliance by the Ukrainian authorities with the International Convention on Human Rights. We call on the deputies of the local councils of all levels to support the appeal, to show loyalty to democratic principles, to make a public statement of their civic position. We turn to all Ukrainians: Do not be indifferent when it comes to the future of Ukraine. I, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasil Kravchuk, declare that I fully support the address of the Slavotic City Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u15	The word is John Sidelnik, a group called Reforms for the Future. He'll come after him. Zybenko's handing it over to Samylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! It's a chair, it's a summation. The members of the “Reforms for the Future” Group are concerned that there has been a great deal of land reform discussions at all levels recently, and in fact, there is little progress on this issue. It is known that the country's economy is the most important area of development, which means that the whole of society has been, is and will be an agricultural sector. It is the agricultural sector that demands the greatest influence today. It should be noted that a number of specific laws on land management have not yet been adopted. In the Land Inventory system, almost 70 per cent of land plots for which legal acts have been established are not available. The decision to transfer land to private property is not clearly defined. The land protection situation is unsatisfactory and requires urgent intervention, the sevo-turns are not being implemented, the land is being exhausted. The Land Protection Act is not implemented. Public funding for land reform remains unsatisfactory. Thus, the introduction of the State Land Inventory is financed by almost 80 per cent of such land inventories by only 2 per cent. The financing of land valuation activities, the delineation of State and municipal property, monitoring activities and land protection are not provided for by the bill. Parliamentary hearings were held on this issue in March of this year, where urgent action was taken to complete Ukraine's land reform. Where a number of bills, including the land market and others, were scheduled to be considered by 1 September this year. However, many of these intentions have not been implemented, and most of the paragraphs have remained on paper. Land reform is slowing down, the rural population is threatening to buy land for kopecks. I want to calm everyone down. In such an organization of land reform, as we now have, the land is far from being sold. Don't write down your pies because no one's buying them yet. There are no provisions today to buy and sell land. The “Reforms for the Future” Group proposes the establishment of a temporary special commission to finalize the Land Market Act, involving scientific work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u17	Thank you. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. She's got Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, in 2007 in the areas of the Skadovian and Calenchat regions of the Hersonian Region, the Rice Ukraine company is carrying out a complex of work to restore the entire land and irrigation system of rice cheques and have invested considerable money in restoring semi-contaminated irrigation channels and cheques. Since 2010, however, actions aimed at raiding the land have begun, initiated by the head of the small enterprise TV "Ivashkovsky Incubator" Dmitry Mikolaiovich of Kharkiv Region. He appeared only after the First Deputy Minister of the APC, Bezugla Dmitrovic, the father of the director became responsible for the development of the sectoral direction of painting. The head of the TOV firm, Rice Ukraine, was openly stated that despite the predominant right to renew the contract and the two rulings of the Herson District Administrative Court would not remain in the company's lease, since there is another claimant, the son. Of course, aggressive policies have begun to capture all legal and illegal methods of rationing land and stock, both through the involvement of the State administrative resources and the direct coercion of peasants to give appropriate notary orders to manage land rations. I'm going to say that the Ivashkovsky Incubator is doing his work on rice cultivation as follows: land, seed, fertilizer, technology, cultivation and assembly equipment, warehouses, grain storage facilities are used in the production process of rice, owned by the Research Institute of the Character of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences, led by Father Besugul. And it's a big surprise that the first Deputy Minister Nouglés met with the agrarians of the Skadovsky, the Kalanchi district and said cynically, "Boys, release the land, otherwise it'll be hot. You'll be working in the D.A.'s office, I.D., other control bodies. There will be no peace. There will be no earth. You won't work here." Does it raise the question of what is the main issue of the law or the position of First Deputy Minister? Is that not a raid? Is that not corruption? And so I ask you to consider my statement as a request to the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, the National Agency of Ukraine for Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u19	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u20	And I want to finally welcome all the agrarians to the upcoming festival and don't let God give you such leaders an agrarian branch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u21	The word is Volodymyr Yavorowski, the faction of "BUT is "The Fatherland". He'll be followed by Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u22	Good morning, dear Ukraine! The greatest punishment of God is not when the Lord takes away his mind. It is said that God’s punishment is far scarier when he takes away his mind and doubles it twice. I said that before, yes, that's how this political-financial group is acting today, which has taken over power in Ukraine. Ukraine, yesterday could have been a very clear day for you. By evening, stinking cassettes could have been dissolved, and Julia Timoshenko could have left. and Yuri Lucenko, and other political prisoners. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Sweden said that she would leave prison, Julia Timoshenko, on the carpet and not go home on television, and start her presidential campaign. He looked at the water. And that's how it's gonna be! Yesterday you showed power and stupidity and stupidity. And I, the worst thing for me, is that right here, in this wing, I don't call the last name, there were people who didn't vote in favour of decriminalizing this article. There are people who, if you'll excuse me, have come to Parliament on the shoulders of Julia Timoshenko and have not had enough conscience to press the button to vote in favour of these two articles! What's happening to us?Oh, my God! Where do we live today?Oh, my God! I want to say it again. Today we have a political nightmare in its worst manifestation, along with these boundaries, along with the golden toilets, which, by the way, have a catapult, they have a catapult, these toilets. What is happening today in the country is being stopped by electricity yesterday to pass by Janukovich. Not just cars, electric cars stop! He's destabilizing power! Stop! You can see what's happening in the country. I'm finishing up alone. A very sneaky thing is a She is deceitful especially when there is only mania and there is no greatness. Mikhailo Svetlov, a brilliant Russian poet, used to joke. The mouse had a mania of greatness. She imagined herself a cat and ate herself. In the same way, you will eat yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u23	Please, Andrew Shevchenko, the "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u24	Good morning, colleagues! I'll talk about Julia Timoshenko, too. You know, almost 70 years ago, there was a lawsuit against a man who the world knows as Mahatma Gandhi. There's a lot of parallels. The occupation regime, too, is an unfair court. And also the process that the whole world is watching. And so is a political leader who didn't run away to other countries who proudly stood up in court and said, "I want the whole world to look at the frost and the injustice that is happening in my country." Today, the Timoshenko process is the Gandhi process of our day. What happened yesterday, when Parliament disgracefully failed those amendments that could free Yulia Timoshenko? You know, this day has developed illusions. First of all, we now see very clearly that the parliamentary majority didn't want and doesn't want the freedom of Yulia Timoshenko, for a simple reason, because you are driven by fear. The other one. We have once again learned that the president of our country is lying, and this presidential lie costs the reputation of our country. Thirdly, we saw yesterday, in the form of decriminalization, someone is conducting indulgence for corruption and for economic crimes -- this is what happened yesterday under the cover of this beautiful idea of decriminalization. But another very important thing has happened. From yesterday personal responsibility for life, health, and freedom have been borne by those deputies who did not vote in favour of the amendments yesterday. Think of this woman who has a bad back, who is now locked in four walls and chained to a bed. Who is responsible for it? First of all, this is Victor Janukovic, the President, who is driven by the fear of revenge. Secondly, this is a party of regions that is blindly following the President. Look at the members of your faction, where relatives are now being arrested, where businesses are being torn apart, where they're taking the unions -- you don't understand what it's going to mean, that it's a pimping bulldozer chronicler, and it's not promising anything good to your party. Someone's gonna take that bulldozer and someone's gonna pull that bulldozer to the bottom. And thirdly, it is the responsibility of the Allies of the Party of Regions, who, last night, did not dare to vote in favour of this law. I'm talking about the Lithuanian Block faction. I'm talking about the Communists. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I'm talking about "cushion." There are almost 50 or 50 deputies in this room who came here because of Timoshenko and whose feelings of revenge and resentment did not allow us to act as indicated by conscience and human appreciation. Won't you have a deputy badge and this soft chair that you're sitting on right now thanks to Julia Timoshenko? And the last. You know, then, 70 years ago, Gandhi at the trial spoke very simply, he said that no legal caseuistics could justify the injustice and the poverty in which my people live. He lost the trial, but then he was released, he brought freedom to his country, and he set a very proud example for the whole world. I'm sure the same thing will happen in Ukraine. Yuri Volodymyrna, Ukraine with you, and we will definitely win.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u25	One minute left. Pavlovsky, Petruk says, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u26	Andrew Pavlovski, "BUT is the Fatherland." Honourable compatriots, soon after two years as a criminal oligarchy, forging elections, took power in our country; they raped the Constitution, gave dictatorial, royal powers to Yanukovic. What do we have in two years with Yanukovic? An increase in the price of food products is double, a steady rise in tariffs on utility services, a freeze on pensions, wages? Janukovic is the most expensive president in the world. Every day, $170,000 is spent on it from the state budget. At Yanukovich's personal expense and his family's money, and on wages, pensions, social benefits, we're told there's no money. So Julia Timoshenko, sacrificing her life, her freedom, her health, urges the leaders of the European Union to give Ukraine an association, not to close the European path to our country. And Janukovic once again lied to European leaders, promising to bring criminal legislation to European standards, the Dictator’s Shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, we have completed our statements, reports. There were calls to welcome the festivals that would take place. Let us welcome today’s television, radio, and association with the festival that is today. And one more thing. Today, I remind you, another holiday is the International Day of Tolerance. So, please, in the Supreme Council, let us celebrate and this is a holiday. Let's move on to ratification issues. We are considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Renewal of the Operation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on Scientific and Technological Cooperation. [[Registration number 0230]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[10:35:46]] For 213 Supported. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports, Eugene Sulimu. Get ready, Kurd.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u28	Reverend Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! On behalf of the government, allow me to present to you today a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Renewal of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on Scientific and Technological Cooperation. International scientific and technological cooperation is one of the active and effective means of integrating Ukraine into European and global economic and technological space. One of the directions of Ukraine’s integration processes in the European Community is the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation. It has identified specific directions of work in the field of fundamental and applied scientific research, namely, environmental and climate research, health, material science, energy, transport, and information technology. In addition, the Agreement provided for cooperation on the access of scientists to relevant research institutions, the organization of seminars and symposiums, exchange of scientific personnel and information on the legislation of research programmes. On November 8, 2009, the Treaty between Ukraine and the European Community on Scientific and Technological Cooperation ended. The legal gap in scientific and technological cooperation between Ukraine and the EU thus led to the adoption of the law called for the resumption of the agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on scientific and technological cooperation signed in Copenhagen on 4 July 2002 and corresponds to the desire of both sides to develop cooperation in the field of science and technology. In addition to the possibility of involving Ukrainian scientific teams funding the EU in the Seventh Framework Programme, the agreement allows higher educational institutions, scientific institutions to participate in orderly conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u29	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u30	enables the project to participate in the implementation of the project and the Ukrainian scientific institutions. Please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement in the form of Exchange of Notes on the Renewal of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on Scientific and Technological Cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u31	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Deputy Head of the Committee on Euro-Integration, Stephen Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u32	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, is proposing to ratify the agreement in the form of exchange of notes on the renewal of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on Scientific and Technological Cooperation. The conclusion of the agreement is prompted by the need to restore the operation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on Scientific and Technological Cooperation, signed in Copenhagen on 4 July 2002. The implementation of this agreement will contribute to the further development of cooperation between Ukraine and the European Community in the field of science and technology, the creation of appropriate conditions for the effective use of the scientific and technical potential of both countries, and the protection of intellectual property rights. The Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration at its meeting on 2 November 2011 considered the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. Our committee's decision is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u33	Thank you. Let's talk. Please sign up. Please, Soroczynska Kirilenko, follow her, Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u34	Vitalia Semenovich was a smoker.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u35	Please, Kurilo microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of Reform for the Future will support this bill because it is one of the few possibilities of investing in science and education in Ukraine. Thus, in the last three years, this agreement has resulted in small, perhaps 12 million euros, but has been invested in our science and education through various European projects. It was 103 projects, and in general, every project was about 12,000 euros. It's imported, basically, equipment that's been given certain benefits and Ukrainian legislation to keep it from being blurry. That's why we think that this agreement will contribute to raising the level of European Ukrainian science and education. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u37	Oleg Zarubinski, followed by Pavlovsky Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u38	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, this agreement really needs to be supported and the evidence of this or the argument for this is the evolution of our relationship with the European Union in the field of scientific cooperation. Looking at the Sixth Framework Programme of the EU, 110 scientific teams from Ukraine took part. At that time, the amount of funding was 7 million euros. In a shorter term, but already with regard to the functioning of the seventh framework program, it is already EUR 11.7 million, 103 projects and the program is continuing. By the way, it has funding of 50 billion by 2013, that's the kind of money that Ukraine can use in general, I don't mean 50 billion, but significant amounts for science development. And why I think we need to do everything we can to increase the meaningful fulfillment of Ukrainian science. In order not to be what was happening in the Supreme Council today, when a person who seemed to be an intellectual or considered to be an intellectual remembers Mahatma Gandhi, not realizing that Mahatma Gandhi was holy, that he never did business, that he never did intrigue, that he never traded grants, that he was a holy man. You can't help but know and speak to the whole country. Or it's done on purpose. Thank you. Agreements need to be maintained.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u39	Andrew Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u40	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Please pass the word to Stepan Kurpil, also the faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u41	Kurpiel microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u42	Stephen Kurpil, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." I was speaking from the committee, and now I would like to say a few words from myself and from the faction. No doubt we support the ratification of this agreement. But together with realizing that there are many problems in implementing it. The most important problem is the oppressive, stifling atmosphere that exists in the country. It's a fog that's been hanging over Ukraine for two years. So we need to talk about the fog, not at the airports, but about the fog in the heads of government. It's actually that fog that didn't let the pro-presidential majority go out beautifully with the stalemate that she pushed herself into, and it didn't allow her to live up to the President's promise that the decision in Timoshenko's case was inconclusive, that there would be an appeal on a new, updated legislative basis. It turns out that these were just empty words for the sunset, that it was just a lie. In this regard, the government’s leadership undermines confidence not only in itself, it seems to have undermined this trust, but also in Ukraine, and it puts the cross on Ukraine’s European integration. We're increasingly convinced that it's just a rhetoric that actually the geopolitical vector has already changed, it's changed in diameter to the opposite. That's what we need to talk about, and we need to think about it, the fog in our heads. I'm absolutely in solidarity with the President of Germany, who said there was a fog over Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u43	Please, Popescu, one minute. We need to talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u44	Thank you, Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! The ratification of the Treaty by the Supreme Council will contribute to the renewal of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Association for Scientific and Technological Cooperation, whose term ends, and we must continue to do so. This will help Ukraine achieve significant positive results in science and technology, as well as further integration of Ukrainian science into European scientific space. Since European integration is our foreign policy priority, the Party of Regions will vote in favour, and we will prove that step by step we are approaching European standards. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u45	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal and the committee, and the same conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority on the adoption of the law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Renewal of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on Scientific and Technological Cooperation. [[Registration number 0230]] Please vote. [[10:47:12]] For 338 Thank you. The law is passed. We are discussing the draft law on the ratification of the Financial Agreement "European Roads of Ukraine II" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. [[Registration number 0231]] There's an offer to consider a reduced procedure, please support. [[10:47:51]] For 229 Supported. Report - Deputy Head of the State Road Service Prussianko Eugene Dmitrovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill before you provides for the ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. This agreement is aimed at implementing a joint project between Ukraine, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank for the reconstruction of road repairs at a total length of 400 km. The terms of the financial agreement are favourable for Ukraine, 450 million euros are involved for 20 years at a 5 year maturity, EURIBOR interest plus 0.7 percent, today is 2.5 percent of annual, commission 0.25 percent. Work on this project is already under way, at the expense of the EBRD, particularly the Kiev-Zitomir roads. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this project as a whole, this will allow the planned work to be completed in time and the movement on the main roads to Euro-2012. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u47	Thank you, Eugene Dmitrovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee, Stepan Volodymyrovich Kurpil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u48	The President-in-Office, honourable national deputies, the Committee on European Integration considered at its meeting on 15 November this year the draft Law on the ratification of the Financial Agreement "The European Roads of Ukraine" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, introduced by the President of Ukraine, and approved the decision: recommending it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. [[Project to improve the traffic and operation status of the road in approaches to Kiev]] In making such a decision, national deputies, members of the committee, came from the fact that the ratification of the Financial Agreement was aimed primarily at creating a contractual legal basis for Ukraine's cooperation and with the European Investment Bank on the implementation of a project to improve road traffic performance in Kiev's approach. The Committee on European Integration has recognised the draft legislation as not contrary to Ukraine's international obligations and is in line with European Union legislation. In addition, the approval of the project will contribute to the completion of the internal procedure for the acquisition of a valid agreement under Ukrainian law. I will also point out that the decision of our committee is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which stresses that the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank can be ratified, as well as the conclusion of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u49	Yes, dear fellows, shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Yes, please, Gnatkevich. Behind him is Persecno.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! Yuri Gnatkevitch, Timoshenko's Yulia Block - "The Fatherland" I went to this platform on the driver’s right, a driver who had been driving this road for 40 or more years. I would like to say that, really, after the investment went into this road, the road got better. And when I go from Brody to Zitomir, sometimes it's too scary to go. I'm looking at it. 170 kilometers and I'm slowing down a little bit. This cannot be said of the area that goes from Zitomir to Kiev. I've been driving twice this month, she's in repairs. I support the idea of ratification because I hope that money will go to repair this road, this area, and it will be as beautiful as the road to the Ships. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister of Azarov, yesterday or the day before, is such a bet goes, says that there were only 18 kilometers of roads under the government of Timoshenko. With whom then did I open the road around Korz? Who opened the road to Raven-Dubno? Julia Timoshenko opened it, and so it was built. I've noticed that the Internet says that the roads to Poceev are now being made and that's right, it's our sanctuary, although it's captured by the Moscow Patriarchate, but before football, we have to do it. I also remind you of a road like Kozin Island, it's a holy road, it's a road to Cossack graves, I think Poles would go there. But it's not being repaired, it's been rumored that President Yushchenko has to go there and it's been repaired literally in two weeks. In two weeks, because President Yushchenko was to leave! But two years later, as you recall, it was broken again. So I'd like this money, which we don't steal, but in turn, to be released for repair on Kozin Island Road, to this famous Museum of Cossacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u51	Marina Perestenko, behind her is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u52	Please give my word to Lechchenk Vladimir Alekseevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u53	Please, Vladimir Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u54	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro The Communist faction supports the Ukrainian draft law on the ratification of the Financial Agreement on the European Roads of Ukraine. Normal nations always take credit for specific investment projects, that is to say, under development and without the cabal conditions of creditors. Before that, Ukraine had acquired loans to eat along with the "what should we do in our own home" dictatorship. For example, shameful cooperation with the International Monetary Fund has been signed by various memoranda requiring the mine to be closed, the land to be sold, the tariffs to be raised, and so on. The Communists are demanding to stop any kind of relationship with this "financial rod." And the financial agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, which is currently under consideration, is normal. It's time, after all, to build normal roads of international and republican significance. For example, the reconstruction of the Kipti Baturin-Bačivsk road, the people called the Moscow Route, made a glass of water in the car not spill. And here's M-01 Kiev-Cherginov-Novi Jarilovich, for example, especially within Chernigiv and Ripkini regions, it needs serious reconstruction. Because this section is a disgrace to Ukraine. From Kiev to Chernigov and to the village of Great Wozniaks, a narrow road at the level of regional importance can still be reconciled, and to the border with the Republic of Belarus. And from the customs office in New Jarilovich to Gomel, everything is up again. It is a financial agreement that will allow for the reconstruction of M-01 as well as other roads of international importance that are suitable for Kiev. [[Kyiv-Chernigov-Novi Jarilovich]] Therefore, I ask the National Deputies to support the draft Law on the Ratification of this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u55	Yuri Carmazin passes it on to Stanislaw Arzevetin. Please. After him, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u56	I thank Yuri Carmazin. I'm going to say his point of view, too. Respectable national MPs no doubt need to maintain the covenant. Because the conditions set out here are very acceptable. Well, another related factor is that our country's investment attractiveness or investment rating will certainly improve. And I wanted to take a little bit of a turn on the road, which would also be financed by this trench -- this is M-06 Chop Kiev. And I think you also agree that for many Europeans who will start visiting Ukraine next year, the Euro-2012 for these traveling tourists will start right in the Zakartat region. And it's a good thing that the money is going to be allocated to this particular plot. But I would like to draw attention to the guidance of Autodro, that according to the State Programme for Visiting Objects that are included in Euro - 2012 sites, there are many objects in the Zakartat region. But unfortunately, for example, objects such as the Ukrainian Miracle are the Sinai Lake or the Shipit Falls, or 10 museums in the village of Kolocava in the Zakarpatsky region, but it is not possible to actually get there. And I am convinced that many Europeans who will travel, if they reach these roads, will no longer want to go to Kiev. Therefore, you may be asked to consider the cost of repairing these side roads. As far as the deal was concerned, all I had to do was question the early repayment of the loan. I, unfortunately, couldn't fully understand whether our state would be punished for paying off credit on an early basis, because European international agencies are being misused. They don't care, term, not term, pay for the entire term. But our legislation provides for all Ukrainian entities for early retirement without the need to impose sanctions. So please consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u57	Thank you. Pavlenko will pass it on to Zarubinski, please. And one minute of Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u58	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, the agreement is not that simple, it has 90 pages, and these 90 pages in this case show that it is sufficiently comprehensive and systematic. Well, in particular, I'd like to emphasize, aside from the things that have already been emphasized, that's two and a half percent year-on-year for 20 years. Frankly, it's hard to find that percentage in the world today, I think, not just today, but 10 years ago when there was no crisis. So it's a convenient condition to say 20 years under 2 and a half percent of the year. But I would like to talk about another subject, namely, the sum of that loan. And so I found in the explanatory note, and then in the text, I confirm these things that the sum of the agreement is six and a half years. If you want to know how long the legal term is, that's over 8 years. So here's the benefit in terms of this, in terms of the agreement. The next moment. Yes, economists know this kind of category or the concept of the economic efficiency of capital. In the contract, it's 0.16 percent. I looked, it's normally 0.12 percent. So if you take this as a population, this sum is more advantageous than the average or the average arithmetic, if you take the coefficient or the measure of efficiency above the average arithmetic, and 20 years of credit below 2.5 percent of the annual, then obviously this deal is a good deal for Ukraine. And one more moment. It does not apply to any separate route. It refers to five sections of virtually all the main roads that come out of Kiev and go to Kiev. So this is obviously true of what Mr. Arjevetin said, and of those passengers who will travel from different regions of Ukraine to different regions of Ukraine from Kiev. It is convenient. She needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u59	Ivan Popescu, one minute. Please, from the faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u60	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! The regional party will support this ratification for the following reasons. First. A quick summation. As noted, 6.5 years of age. The economic efficiency factor of capital injections is 0.16, as our colleague Zarubinski has already said. But I would also like to turn to one other aspect. The project will also involve the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the amount of 450 million euros. And I want to remind our colleagues that we have already ratified this agreement 15. This year's 06th. As a result, we are obliged to move on, since the improvement in the traffic and operation conditions of the road in the direction of the city of Kiev and not only of Kiev is very relevant before the Euro-2012. On the basis of the above, and given that time is no longer available, I urge everyone to vote in favour. A party of regions will vote in favour by doing their own program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u61	Thank you. Question completed. And we're all unanimous in the need to ratify the treaty, as well as in the fact that, in fact, the pace of road construction that Ukraine has known in the last five and a half years, we haven't seen you. And here it is, huh? It was, but it wasn't that fast. It's not that fast, it's not that big, it's not that high, it's not that high, it's not that high. A lot of you are driving, I think they're meeting with voters and they're seeing. And it's probably not as much Euro-2012 as it is leadership, which is really pretty good at managing this industry. And I think we'll do the right thing if on the day of the service manager's birthday and today on Demishcan's birthday, we ratify this agreement. Therefore, I ask to vote in favour of the Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement "European Roads of Ukraine II" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. [[Registration number 0231]] Please be friendly. [[11:03:21]] For 338 Thank you. The law is passed. The deal's ratified. Let's move on to the next chapter of the agenda: "Inclusion into the agenda of the session." We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Public Welfare. [[concerning the prohibition of the establishment of fences with a view to restricting citizens' access to the territories of public authorities and local self-government bodies]] [[Registration number 9436]] Jacenjuk Arseny Petrovich reports. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u62	Dear people of Ukraine! The law that comes before you is a law that forbids today's authorities, the President, the Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from being disbarred from the people who chose them. This law prohibits the construction of fences for the money of black people and Afghans that you do not pay them. This law prohibits the building of fences for taxpayers' money, which you extract from small and medium -sized businesses through the Tax Code that you have adopted. This law prohibits obstruction and protection against the people in whom you have retired as a result of the adoption of the Retirement Reform Act. This law requires two weeks to dismantle the famous fence near the Supreme Council, and remember, this law requires the same fence to be dismantled near a much more important institution where all decisions are made regarding Afghans, black people, pensioners, taxes, corruption, namely, the Ukrainian President's Administration. We demand the adoption of this law. We demand that those who have been chosen by the people of Ukraine, not fear the people of Ukraine, not turn away from the Ukrainians, do what you have promised, and then you will not need the militia, fences, fences, and escape from those who voted for you. I want to speak to you separately, rather dismantle these fences and fences that you've mounted, because they might be used to keep you from running away when people come to ask you what you promised them and lied to them. Please pass the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u63	Please, from the committee. The committee, I take it, I haven't considered it yet. If you are willing to take part in the discussion, please sign in. Please, Gnatkevitch, today in the forerunners. After him, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Yuri Gnatkevitch, "BUT is the Fatherland". If you notice who reads the Internet and the newspapers, now the theme of "Going to the fence" is particularly important and interesting. Indeed, two years have passed from the field to the fence, but Ukraine has come a long way in the great negative experience of the new authority. When I saw the fence being destroyed on television, I remember, as I often do, the quotations of Vladimir Illich Lenin. When the investigator questioned Vladimir Illich Lenin, he said to him, "Where are you fighting? There's a wall in front of you!".. And Lenin said, "Stand, rot! Tuck it up, it'll fall apart." This creates some kind of association with today's power. And is it not the wall that is now rotten between the people and the authorities, when a few of the women of old came, and three times they put their finger on it, and it fell apart? I'd like to ask. Dear colleagues, we still don't know who built this fence that is blocking us from the people that are protecting us from the people. There one man said yes, said that we had been protected from rabbits before, and now the rabbits are protecting us. So I want you and I to answer the question: Who's chasing this kind of haltura? It's like they're rebuilding this fence right now, and they're saying it's surrounded by 9 million people. Maybe that's not true. But I want to ask today's authorities. If you pursue such a debauchery with your reforms, this wall will obviously prove to be just as rotten as the old pensioners will come, wet, and it will fall apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u65	Vladimir Moses. Is that what Carmazine's saying? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u66	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Should this law be adopted? Of course you do. But it should also apply to that fence that was built on Bank Street. And I want to say that unfortunately, it was built during the democratic presidency, as we thought, by President Yushchenk. As a result, the presidents are changing, and the procedures remain. I want to say that when we adopt this law in the first reading, we have to accept it in the second when we look at it, and write down the courts, and the prosecutors. Because what was before the Cave Court can only be spoken in poems, poems, or poems. And he says, "We must say everything as it is, about your honor and our honor. The Cave Court is a cave judgment, an unrighteous, bloodthirsty fornication, the very Satan of creation, a devilish seed. There's enough in that legal field of the devil. The wolves are Kiriev and Frolo, the masters of the unrighteous language, we are sick of your half, because you are not the theologians at all, but the liars and the thumpers, lying to the fields. Such as you would have been despised from ancient times and today. You are like a cancerous tumor and like the curse of Ukraine, you and your children will reap what you have sown here today. They forgot what God said by directing his all - powerful finger, by which you judge by judgment, you will also be judged. And it hurts us to lie, and the people at the courthouse are spinning, and the words are already threatening.".. Therefore, Your Honor, I very much ask you to take pictures of the fences, for you will see that not only will they say: power is gone! And I want Ukraine preserved, so let's take down the fences and build Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u67	Jaroslav Suhi is handing over to Koleschenka, please, Vadim. Next one's Sharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, excellent report by the excellent leader of the excellent party. Well, what else can I say? You know, I like to think that if the leader of a great party is taking over the fences, the level of his party is already below the sewers. Second. If this leader of the great party, such justice and such a truer loves the people, well, let him account: what did he do, being the title of the Secretariat of Yushchenka, who built a fence around the Bank of the People? The question is rhetorical. Third. Well, when the President of the Supreme Council was insulted in 2008, when his finger was pointed at the people and his extremity was destroyed, in fact, by a militia officer, it was called “nearness to the people”. I have a question: If such a person is concerned about the people, why does he go with the guards? Is he afraid of the people? Who is he here to convince that the people need to be afraid? [[B in m in s a l in]] That's another question. Well, if I continue with this match, I would like to invite this person to address the parliaments of all countries, for example, Romania, Israel, by the way, Forin-offis, so cursed in England -- all of it! What are these bastards hiding from the people? Well, where did this European figure hide his language? Why is he here looking for some kind of truth? There is a procedure for protecting public buildings and institutions. You know the bad guys in the United States: they built a 150-meter fence around the White House, and some bum tried to cross the fence, they locked him up at the police station, and they tried to sew him up with an article on terrorism. Well, what such a light of democracy protects this "gadish" The White House, in the coffeehouses, because they're definitely our friends, our brothers. That's where we're being supported. Therefore, we would like to think about what we are doing and what we are doing in the fight for populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u69	Igor Sharov is passing it on to Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u70	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear fellow citizens! At first, I thought about, really, the promoter of democracy, the United States of America, which obviously has an impact on many Ukrainian politicians, and quite a serious influence, and to mention when we were there as a parliamentary delegation, how long before the fence they were standing in front of us, so that we, the official delegation, could at least miss the territory behind this fence. But then I thought it wasn't something to talk about. Obviously, there are examples of democracy not in the ocean, but in Europe. So, I would like to propose to expand the contents of this bill because there is no fence in Norway, Finland, Sweden at all. And that's why I would like to invite our politicians, including superproject initiators, to lift fences around their houses, as it is in Europe. Take them down, take the windows off, play them off, and let all the crowds go into their homes and help cook and do something else. So let's include this, this is going to be pretty interesting. And I want to insist on that. Dear colleagues, there are a number of persons who, by law, like it or not, let's take it down, have the right to have guards. But they're state guards. Dear colleagues who have private guards obviously cannot be associated with the sparkles of democracy. Let your private guards come to you as they come to me in the streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u71	Question completed. I'm proposing the inclusion of Bill 9436 in the agenda of the day session on amendments to the Ukrainian Human Development Act. [[concerning the prohibition of the establishment of fences with a view to restricting citizens' access to the territory of public authorities and local self-government bodies]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:16:16]] For-80 The law is not included in the agenda. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts." [[on the prohibition of escorting and blocking road traffic during the passage of the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine]] Registration number 9244. Reports the author of the legislative initiative Arsenij Yatzenuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u72	Dear people of Ukraine! The bill is drafted by hundreds of thousands of Chinese people who sincerely thank each morning the President, the Head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister of Ukraine for being able to stand in traffic from one hour to one and a half. The bill is authored by hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who are fortunately able to see the President in their district centres, and along with the President, a cruise of 23 cars, for example, on the last visit by the President of Ukraine to the city of Chernivci. The bill is written by millions of Ukrainians who demand that you do not hide from people. The author of this bill is those people who voted for you and who you stop, who you do not allow to live and move freely. In no European country is there what is now in Ukraine when the first three people are in the country. This is not surprising to you because you have stopped the development of all of Ukraine, but this law requires authority to be the same as those who voted in favour of this authority. This law requires that the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council be under, not over the people, because above, no one will give you the opportunity to do so. I ask you to accept this bill and to ban the movement of the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council. Be like 46 million Ukrainians, and you may still have time for correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u73	From the committee. I didn't. Please sign up for the performance. Irina Heratschenko, next one is Pachešuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I'd like to return to the previous discussion. You know, the problem is not even that we're parked in the parking lot, but that this is a detective story, no one's telling who put that fence up. This is where Agatha Christie has to be written out to find the owner of the fence. I think we're going to be looking with you right now for the author of the cover-up, really, these streets. We've just heard a lot of examples of other countries like there, as if there are fences around government institutions, although that's not true, in any parliament of the world, any person can go on a tour, not as we have to register three months in advance. So your favorite, the President of the Russian Federation, was late for the adoption of the Queen of Britain, because he felt the same way about something that London would cover up for him and he'd be traveling in three seconds on a cruiser. In no country in the world, even in China, which today has a special relationship with the Party of Regions, and the Communist Party of China has signed an agreement with you on cooperation, there is no overlap between movements for the passage of Chinese leaders, there is a maximum of one road, and there is a single-way cruise. But there is no such crime, really, as it is in Ukraine. And we're afraid that with the helicopter being put into operation, you and the sky will be covering up so that the helicopter can fly and no one will interfere. It's really important to just hear that power exists for the people, not the other way around. The people must stand in line, and the people must watch the parks. And I think that in fact today Arsenius Yatsenuk is making perfectly sound bills that are worth supporting to show the human face of this power, there are no bad things here. If we were once wrong and we put fences together, let's fix both our mistakes, and let's say you learned to draw any conclusions from yesterday's mistakes, let's do it together. So I think it's worth voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u75	Pachešuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, followed by Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Smithu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u77	Please, Gregory Smythech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u78	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I do not think that the Supreme Council should spend so much time discussing such problems as special passages. By the way, I personally and most of the people's deputies here have never used this issue in their travel plans. And the drafter of the bill, who reported this bill to us, who asked him to put it into the agenda, took advantage of all of Ukraine's consequences, and all of them know that even people have been taken off the job. That's the first question. So before speaking with such a law, I think it was necessary for him to repent that he was using these questions, and then he was transparent, and then he suggested that something should be changed in the country, in my opinion. The second question. You know, we're all abroad, thank God, because we're doing things like sharing information, sharing experiences and so on in other countries. In all countries, without exception, special passages are, these are delegations that are coming, including in China. And I was with a delegation in April in the People's Republic of China, with the Prime Minister, and the State, the State, provided the Chinese State with a special tour of our Prime Minister and the delegation he led. Therefore, you need to know how balanced it is to see whether it is relevant today or not. By the way, I live outside the city of Kiev and go to the Supreme Council every day. And it's like this: the prime minister with the escort, yes, indeed, with the escort, but never in the last two years have I seen him be blocked, carefully passed. If the signal machine goes, there's order, the traffic rules, the time to understand, you just have to take the right, miss the column, and there's nothing in this, and there's no delay in that. I don't think the Supreme Council should waste time on this problem, because there are a lot of issues in our country that really need consideration and attention from Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u79	Andrew Pavlovsky. Behind him is Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u80	Andrew Pavlovsky. I see I've got our oligarchs on the subject. We must put an end to our haughtiness and haughtiness. Therefore, I propose to give the floor to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Mikola Tomenko, who will tell the truth about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I think that all that is related to the budget, the law enforcement agencies, which are financed by state funds and which are linked to our Ukrainian people, should be the subject of public discussion. I'm surprised that when colleagues from the parliamentary majority speak, they say it's not interesting at all. And you once stood in Kiev in a traffic jam, so you heard thousands of people signal to the leaders of the Ukrainian people. Come on, come on, come on, come on. They get out of cars, they like to hang out. Talk to him, what do they say about it? Does it seem like there's no such problem? I'll tell you more, we'll have the ship's head soon to be escorted. And in the fields, we have so-called corset governors. There are such deputy ministers, as I read, there was an accident in the Plains region, which means that the corset was accompanied by a deputy minister and a governor. Excuse me, come on, we've lived to see that the fastest lowest official will be a militia cruise. Let the police protect the people who are afraid to leave the street at night, not the officials. Now it's second position. I'm surprised to see our ministers or anyone else. On TV, they ask them, and they say, "You know, I don't want protection, nothing, but I was bound by the Supreme Council, they wrote the law," and so on and so forth. Now he doesn't want to, and we've got 10 guards following him and there's a escort. So, of course, the problem is not just the law, it's the problem of the so-called instruction, which is written on the basis of this law by the instructions of both the previous leaders and the current leaders who define this procedure. We would normally have to think about it here, because that instruction, like in civilized countries, it writes up in a second so that it doesn't hurt a person. And we have plenty of time, well, the Ukrainian people aren't in any hurry, we can stop and wait for one or the other to leave. So I think the problem is not just in the law, but in finding a mechanism, or through a parliamentary committee that controls the activities of law enforcement agencies. For the police to indicate on what basis the document is made. I'll tell you more, ask the airport staff, we have some private jet officials, they're driving cars to the airport because they're big, they can't walk. They flew in on a private plane, cars drove in, they landed them, and they flew out of the airport. I'm sorry, that's what one civilized country is, isn't it? So I think it's the right thing to do, but it needs to be completed by a complete change in the instructional material that provides for the so-called overlap, co-existence and cortical history of high-level officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u82	Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. The first question is, is there any way to rephrase, to limit this situation to the anchors, to the escorts, and so forth? Obviously we should. Obviously, there should be no such thing as what Mikola Tomenko said when the deadline is extended to an indefinite period of time. I'm going to remind you that the worst part was with Viktor Andrievich Yushchenk when the author of this initiative was the first deputy of the head of administration. For no one knew when Yashchenka stood up, would wake up, and would leave his house, and would cover for hours. And I was just on the south side of town, on the south side of the bridge, and then I had a good time. Obviously, all of this needs to be done. But the second question is, did the author of this initiative set himself that goal? And I don't believe anything, to be honest. I looked at it, well, it's just such a tight-ass lady's lead that consists of one name. Check it out, check it out, talk to the voters. Look who's looking for me. In fact, such a law makes absolutely no difference. It's really one name and more. I'll think of something else. In his time, he was a fan of viewing all the forums on various sites. On one occasion, before some elections, a very honest politician was filming a video showing how the ambulance was waiting for the Grand Chief to take over. We all know the name of this policy, which is the author of this initiative. So on all the blogs, it was written that when they took off this video, just in an hour of peaking, a turn of several thousand cars was built that signaled and cursed. So I think it's probably someone's cow that's been running, someone's been quiet. That's the first one. The second is that this project doesn't work. And perhaps the last little nuance, it already applies to this bill. But I was a major, and a lot of my colleagues were, and we understood that if we took a step somewhere, we would let ourselves cross a line, well, we would literally be cursed there. We were closer. This is a person who is firm against even the slightest return of the majority system, and in this case he stands for wanting to go up there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u84	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u85	Whether he's away from the electorate and he's torn off by escorts, guards, even here in the hall, in the towers of the Supreme Council, he wants to protect people, well, something false gives it all away. So we're going to impose, but let's give normal laws, not like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u86	Question completed. I want to say, for the sake of justice, that for the past four or five months, neither the Chief of the Supreme Council nor the Prime Minister has been covering their way in the city of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u87	They're covering right in front of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u88	But they hide you from the high place, because that you may not be beaten, Yuri Anatolyovich, you see, God forbid, they will be struck. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily bill, amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[9244]] [[on the prohibition of escorting and blocking road traffic during the passage of the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:29:58]] For-90 Not turned on. The factions. The regionals didn't vote, BUT 66, Our Ukraine 21, and non-faction 3. The rest of the factions did not vote. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Order on the appointment of the successive election of the deputies of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head. [[Registration number 9067]] Report by Javorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u89	Honorable colleagues, dignitaries, in every country, the capital is the face, in fact, of the countries, of the capital, all the signals go to the province, from the capital, and intellectual, and spiritual, and political signals. It's perfectly understandable. And of course, the whole country is also going to turn their faces back to what's going on in the capital. It's as if there's everything except for the great regret of Ukraine. What is happening in the capital is likely to cause everyone to become confused, to realize that we are living, not in a state, but in a reservation that is getting deeper and deeper into it. Here today was a discussion about the fence that was set up, and no one can imagine in the country, the police, the Security Service, no one can determine how this fence appears at night. I've set it up. It seems to me that Chernewsky is flying from Israel for one night, building this fence, and flying away again in the morning. Maybe she'll go back to her lover, as the Internet says in this respect. How could there be a person who doesn't exist, who doesn't exist, that's a world smile? What, the Chinese can't pick their own heads today? The district councils in Kiev were canceled, or self - government as not in the capital, that is. Obviously, it will continue to have to be abolished in both the provinces and the areas. There is no measure chosen by humans today, there is an appointed Popov. By the way, I have to say, whatever it is, it's probably a little less today than it was at Crnowitz. Julia Timoshenko sits behind bars, and Crnowski walks the world. Although everyone understands how much he stole from the sheds today. All right, please. Here's the latest sociological data. If the election of the city’s Kiev head were to take place on the first Sunday of September, Vitaly Klitschko would have been the first one, 27 percent! It's a choice of sneezes. Alexander Popov – 14, Omelchenko – 7.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u90	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u91	Do not worry about Yavorowski, but think about yourself. That's why I think we should have an election today in 60 days. So we're going to have this election in 2012. It's probably about a month of February. And then Kyiv will take away this terrible disgrace that he has today instead of his capital crown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u92	From the committee, the committee didn't look, I understand. Let's sign up for the performance. Please, Tishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u93	I beg you to pass the word to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u94	Pavlovski?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u95	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u96	Please, Pavlovsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u97	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. I support this decision as a cyanide. Because I continue to tolerate this disgrace, the abuse of local self-government that has been taking place in Kiev for more than a year, I am not talking about an inadequate person who has been flying into space and other songs that are now hiding in Israel or in other countries. I'm talking about Janukovic, in violation of the Constitution, assigning us here a chief looking at Popov, whom no one has chosen! Although Kyiv, according to the law, has the right to have a city head, chosen only by the Chinese! And no one has the right, not even Yanukovic, dictator Yanukovic, to impose hauliter on the Chinese. So I support this decision, and I demand that Kiev's right be restored immediately! We don't need any occupation here, including the regional one! And as a cyakian, I demand to return Kiev's self-governance and let the Chinese decide for themselves! What's more, there are leaders of public opinion, and the cynics themselves will put these points above "and." And whoever's drunk there, these lookers, they don't want to do whatever it is they're supposed to do, what their predecessors did, I think they're all going to give a principle assessment as they've always done; and they're always not supporting the crime in power. So, guys, let's give it a chance to identify the Chinese themselves who will be the city's head. And restore democracy in the famous city of Kiev. It's our capital, we don't have to forget it, it's a European city. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u98	Thank you, Andrew. Well, as far as I know, the roots are still yours at the Peacock. A chariot, please. Behind him is Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u99	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Vadim Kolesnichenko. Dear colleagues, you know, I would be pleased to congratulate the initiators of this spectacle, especially the previous speaker, whose lexicon, well, tells us what processes are going on in this political party. Well, of course, what a leader, such speakers. I would like to return us, literally two years ago, from the same rostrum, the same counselors for Kiev's lili here, the cry of the crocodiles, told how hard Kiev was, and how wonderful it would be if some representative supported some great force called "BUT" and how they would save Kiev. And how they roamed all Kiev, and how they failed this election campaign, and how they ended up in the place where they were supposed to be, and where they are today. You know, when these people try to interfere with the Local Self-Government Act, of course you're surprised. Of course, gas contracts are very convenient to manage. But I would recommend, in such a case, not to interfere with the work of the Kiev City Council. At least give a fair, honest assessment of the work of the Governor appointed under the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution, Mr. Popov, our colleague in recent times. I don't think there's a single Kiever today who won't say with gratitude what a great job our colleague Popov is doing in Kiev. How many roads have been made, how many improvements have been made, how much has been made for children, for kindergartens, for schools? Well, only a blind person or, of course, a gang member doesn't see it. We are all seeing and understanding this, and we support the work of Governor Popov in his desire to make the capital of Kiev an international class, a level that all people love. Thank you, Governor Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u100	Moses conveys the word of Knyazevitch, please. After him, Grivkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I'm very sad that we've talked about anything but the problem that really exists with the elections in Kiev. And this problem is extremely powerful. And the only way to solve this problem is to hold an early election of the city's head and the Kiev City Council. The root of this problem is that the election of the Kyiv City Council and the city’s heads took place in 2008. And in 2010, the Supreme Council, in part of the election of councils and councils at all levels, amended the Constitution and determined that all subsequent elections to local governments would take place on one day — on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year of office, that is, in 2014. And the problem came up according to Kiev, with Ternopolis, because in the Transitional Regulations, we wrote that there were exceptions in these two areas, because there were later elections. But they were held in Kiev following an old constitutional model that predicted a four - year and a five - year - old council. And if we don't hold a temporary election right now, we have to turn into city heads next year, and in a year, we have to choose a council. One more year later, the entire vertical of local self - government — complete absurdity — will be re-elected. The only way out of this situation is, indeed, to go to the municipal council and city council for the next few years and those who will be selected for the next few years, in accordance with the law and the Constitution, is to work only until October 2014, and in October 2014, to hold a series of elections across the whole of the self-government bodies, because there can be no such absurdity in this situation in Ukraine, because otherwise we will never get the verticals of the self-government organs and all the constitutional changes that have been presented here as major achievements of democracy out of the way. Therefore, this decision must be supported, or at least work in this direction. If we don’t, next year we will have a problem that we won’t be able to cross and we won’t know.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u102	Yes, the discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal to include Bill 9067 in the agenda of the daily session, the draft Order for the appointment of alternate members of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:40:36]] For-92 Not included in the agenda. We're discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft decree marking the 1160th anniversary of the establishment of the Ukrainian State. Registration number of Bill 9176. Lilia Grigorovitch will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I think when marking the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's Independence, each of you could see on the boards something like this saying, "We are a young state!".. And each one of you thought, "As if for a thousand years, and more than a thousand years, our ancestors lived here as if there were nationalities." Only in the 20th century did we restore our statehood six times, five times without success. There was the Galico-Wollin Principality, there was the Kiev Russia, and every time we realized that we had a unique ancient history, but unfortunately, our state was only 20 years old, because we didn't restore our statehood, we proclaimed it. In view of this, dear friends, I would like to address each of you with such a call if anyone was in a boarding school and saw the happiness of a child who finds a parent, or who finds a family. It's such a dignity, it's a different child, it's a different child, it's a different child, it's a different child. The Scriptures say, “Learn the truth, and the truth will set us free. ” It's quite clear that, indeed, we are a young parliament, a young society, a young state, but still restored. Where can we find the truth in order to have a deep root, our dignity? Apparently, it's in our originals. In view of the fact that we have been baptized for over a thousand years, is it not true? Really. Isn't it true that in Kiev-Pecher Lavre lies the power of the Reverend Nestor, the author of "Temporary Years' News"? Is it not true that in this message, there is indeed a mention that in 852 years the Russian community undertook a visit to Byzantium? I'd even say it's my draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u104	Finish up, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u105	My draft determination will prompt a search, for Kiev is a thousand and a half years old. In view of the fact that I am today, my distinguished colleagues, I would like to urge all of you to support this draft decision, because we are an ancient, powerful state with a colossal past, and therefore a colossal future. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u106	Thank you. The committee considered, please, the rapporteur was identified as the head of the Yavorowski Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u107	Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT, Kirovograd Let me inform you of the position of our committee. There are two aspects to this idea, one, as it were, moral-ethical-historic. Because, of course, every nation, every nation, every nation, wants to know its beginnings, they want to know their own age, in the end, know their own history, that is, the very idea of this beautiful, and because of that, the committee has supported this determination so that we can discuss it and bring it to our Ukrainian society, well, some ideas, our views, which are right here, in the Ukrainian national deputies. But there is, of course, another aspect. We've set up a committee, we've sent it to the Institute of History, we've made this decision to have an objective assessment. And I have to tell you that, of course, the Institute of History, well, let me put it mildly, is questioning, let's say, this date, as well as the fact that this is the result of a scientific conference at the Plains, in one of our oldest universities, but as Burjak writes, the deputy director of the Institute, was an initiative of students who wanted to somehow organize, let's say, this date before Euro-2012. That's why I want to thank you on behalf of Mrs. Lily's committee for asking that question. We need to explore our history, we need to know, but I'm sure it's not a political mission, because we can cut wood here, it's a mission of historians in particular. Let them study everything, let them argue, and then hand over documents to politicians so that appropriate documents can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u108	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Sign up. Alexandrovska Alla, Communist faction. Behind her is Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u109	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, well, I think that it is clear to all that the law does not determine the age of the State. There are completely different procedures for this. Moreover, it even sounds offensive to Ukraine that someone wants to set such a date under Euro-2012. Well, if you'll excuse me, the football players who will be here, the footballers who will be, I think, few of them care about the history of Ukraine. Enough scientific work has already been done to confirm the way that the people living and living in that territory have traveled. Therefore, we do not need to make such completely unwarranted or even ridiculous decisions. And, excuse me, let's do our work, let's write laws, not make up history in an empty place.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u110	Taras Čornovil. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u111	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! First, from the previous speech, I want to say that we don't set a date. The decree is about marking a very specific scientific fact. The thing is that science is such a thing -- history -- determines that regardless of when a city was created, whether it was a state formation or not, if there were no clear dates, the first written reference. The first written reference, which clearly defines a date, is an element in the "Prophet of Temporary Years" where it is defined this year as assigning a particular name plus a year that has already taken place on Byzantine times. Clearly, the State existed long ago. But otherwise we're going to turn into mannils or some of our pseudo historians who start there telling us that Jesus Christ was Ukrainian and the Virgin Mary was Galician. Instead, it is better to do what the author did and how the initiators at the Ostrov Academy made a strict approach to science. And science gives us that the first clear reference to our lands to written sources is the year from which the date is counted. This is, indeed, an event that means something to us. Let's remember that our neighbours to those lands that today are the foundation of the Russian state are also bringing about the next year of the 1150th anniversary of the arrival of mates in Russia. We have a date related to these areas where Kiev’s Russia was formed, Kiev. Clearly, then, it has a different basis, other literary data. And we need to meet this standard. I don't think we should be looking for any kind of policy here, anything. It's just an elementary respect for yourself as a state. It doesn't have to be national or whatever, we've been operating as a state for 1160 years in a civilized field, in a field of writing, in a field of printed writing. This is a very important thing. That's why we have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u112	Yuri Carmazin, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", followed by Suhi. Please, Lilia Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! This draft regulation and discussion is a test, a test for Parliament as a whole. It doesn't matter to the left or the case works in this parliament, it works in this country. And coming abroad, or to Brussels, or anywhere else, how pleasant it is when I am a citizen and a parliamentarian of a country that has a unique history and yet has. For some, history begins in 1917, for others we celebrate the Jubilee of Cities and Cities from the time they are mentioned, either of Lviv or of Kharkiv or of any other city. We have the power of Saint Nestor the chronicler, who is the author of this book, and now of the Ostrov Conference itself. It's not true that it's the students' initiative, and the Euro and the rest, she didn't say anything here, although it would normally be cool. [[The author of the ruling – I]] But I'll tell you another thing, at this Ostrov Academy, Professor Kryniew Petrov Mikhajlovich, Doctor of Historical Sciences, and Professor Trofimovich, and this is not some initiative of the students, with the rest, Nestor Littorian, not a student, but "Most of the time years," forgive me, not a student's job. Hang in there, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u114	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, knowing not the first year of Lila Stepanovna, I have suggested not to discuss this issue at all, because it goes completely beyond historical science. It's a shame that there isn't an academic in the room who would probably explain to you in a calm, balanced manner. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't teach, because you're far away, you're not worth it, it's a man with a world name. Lilia Stépanovna, think of what you said in your speech: Nestor the chronicler spoke of the Russian march to Byzantineia. When does Ukrainian Statehood begin? Of the first princes of Asold and Dire? What?, what should we turn away from? And one more thing, I want to support Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, listen to me, you can't touch politicians like this because we already have such a wild situation when the Great Kyiv Prince Vladimir is our Ukrainian good prince, and his son, Yuri Dolgoruki, is a bad Moscow that destroyed Kiev, because Kiev was destroyed not only by Yuri Dolgoruki but also by others. So I suggest you stop the discussion and put the question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u116	Andrew School, one minute, BUTT.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u117	Thank you. I agree that politics should normally be pursued, but nevertheless there are things that are related, historical sciences related to politics, as we would not like to do so. And the initiative would be worth supporting, at least once again, that's not about a year of establishing statehood, I would just maybe change the name of the decision. And to celebrate the literary memory and then to leave here, because we are, indeed, ashamed to be proud somehow. Recently, I learned that Ukraine celebrates not 150 years of Ukrainian railways but 150 years of Lviv railways. And on my basis, they say, "Well, that's what the Austrians built you," and our real Ukrainian railway built us its Russians, and so of course it's a Ukrainian holiday. When I'm told on TV that the oldest university is located in Kharkiv, with all due respect, Politechnik, I'm sorry, in Kharkiv, of course the oldest is in Lviv. And we don't have to divide Parliament in these circumstances, we just have to take a decision and support it, and we have to be proud of our history together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u118	Zarubinsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u119	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I want to turn my back on what Andrew Schlell just said, he's noticed. It's not about establishing a state, it's about the first reference, it's called "The Determining." "The summer of the founding of Ukrainian statehood," that's serious stuff. What we do, we have to make a decision just to let someone say that I've been doing this, and that's accepted and so on. These are serious matters. The colleagues said it should be done, it should be a serious discussion. If it's a memory, it's a memory. If founding is the case, it must be proved that the foundation and the memorial are the same thing. You can't write a nice name, like we saw a few times today, and then on TV, on the show, say, "Look, I offered it or offered it, and they didn't accept it." We need to take this more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u120	Thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. But I'm very sorry that students at even such an important academy as Ostrózka are going to find that setting up is very difficult and very simplistic. If we agree with you that we're going to have our own statehood in the next year 1160, we're going to make a pretty bad move with you. We've got a lot more. But I'm voting on a draft decree marking the 1160th anniversary of the establishment of Ukrainian statehood. [[Registration number 9176]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:55:27]] For-79 The decision is not supported. And respectable colleagues, really, let's not go where we don't have to set dates that conflict with the truth. We're discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the 120th anniversary of Vladimir Simyrenko's birth. [[Registration number 9314]] Report, Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u121	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! It's suggested that you look at the 120th anniversary of an outstanding Ukrainian selector who has celebrated himself with normally amazing varieties that work until today, because some of the "Michurinian" have long been forgotten, and the "Symirenkovski" are still working. I would like to say, with such an opportunity and a rostrum, that the entire Simiren family is amazing. His father was an incredibly modest man, though rich. And this was the man who, at the risk of a lot of things, gave money for the release of "Cobzar" by Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk and even asked him: if you could, didn't become my name on the cover, I don't want my last name to be, let's say, advertised there and so on." And apparently it was in such a family, a patriotic family, at the time, that it was even risky, and a younger son, Vladimir Simyrenko, was raised. The biography is amazing, like the biography of his generation in general, when their fates were often simply "overcrowded" and he was sitting in a prison where he was thrown out by the NKVDists, released, then planted again. Then he was interrupted and worked in Russia in a totally out of place in the climate zone where he used to work. Because of his greatest contribution, of course, and he has exterminated himself, whether you vote today or not. But this man, Vladimir Lewkovich Simyrenko, has killed himself with amazing varieties, the Mliyev station has been working to this day, producing new varieties. But once again I want to say that these selective things in general, they're very long-lasting, and they're actually saying that the bladder varieties for today are almost gone, they're all born over time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u122	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u123	Simirenko works to this day. Check yourself, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, I think we're really voting. Is there anyone who objects to the decision? If you don't mind, I'll give you my word. If he supports, why are we wasting time? Dear colleagues, let's not waste time and I think the session hall likes apples. I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the project's day session of the 120th anniversary resolution of Vladimir Simyrenko's birth. [[Registration number 9314]] Please vote. [[11:59:22]] For 330. Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, for your help. Yes, there's a break in 12 hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u125	And it's going to be reduced because it's included in the order of the day. This rule defines what is abbreviated. So we're going to continue with the questions in the chapter on inclusion in the agenda of the session. We're talking about a draft regulation on wage increases for employees in institutions, institutions and organizations of the budget area. [[Registration number 9167]] About getting into the daytime. The author of the initiative is Viacheslav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u126	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I am introducing a draft decision that should bring the pay order to the budgeters, because the government will deliberately reduce these salaries and distort the single tariff network. On May 11, the government of Azarov passed Decree No. 524, and the tariff rate for the first-class worker was understated. On October 1st, it's 660 dollars, but it's a set of extras to keep the first tariff charge from being less than the minimum wage. But these payments are set up completely arbitrarily and in a way that distorts the single tariff grid. Simply put, where you have to pay a thousand and a half dollars, you pay 990 dollars and so on down all 25 charges. For example, for example, in the second tariff grade in connection with such a distortion, for example, a person who works as a dry cleaner is 84 bracelets per month. Next, the 10th level of the single tariff network – teacher of the second category, nurse of the higher category – a month's underpayment of 592 bracelets. The teacher of the first category is 640 dollars in a month of underpayment due to such a government decision. The senior teacher, for example, is 975 dollars a month. For example, the university's associate is 11,12 bracelets are already underpaid every month and so on and so forth. The scale of this 84 - dollar underpayment per month for the first charge to 1,466 dollars for the underpayment of 25 dollars. So people just steal their money. My requirement is to recognize the government's unsatisfactory work in paying the employees of institutions, institutions and organizations of the budget area and to revoke the government's decree number 524 by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u127	The committee didn't consider it. If they are desirable, have you considered them? Now, let's see. Please, it's Hara. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u128	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! On November 2, a committee on social policy and work discussed the draft decree. And as Anatoly noted, Viácheslav Anatolyevich, there are two main aspects. The first aspect. Recognize the unsatisfactory work done by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in paying the salaries of employees of institutions, institutions and budgetary organizations. And the second aspect. Set the tariff rate of the first-level worker to exceed the legislatively fixed minimum wage. This is what an article of the Ukrainian Law on Paying for Work requires. In the author’s view, the adoption of the draft decision would allow for a prerequisite for higher wages for budget workers and partially help to address the problem of poverty among working citizens. They will also be protected by the right to pay in the amount of work already provided for in article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Pay for Work. The authorities of the State’s executive branch made a number of comments on the draft decree. The joint representative body of the employer’s side sees the document as populist and requires additional expenditure from the state budget. The joint representative body of all U.S. trade unions and trade unions supports the draft decree. No decision was taken on the committee when the draft decision was considered. Because the votes were 50 divided by 50. Therefore, it is suggested that the hall determine the fate of the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u129	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Yes, please, Ganushkak, BUTT.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u130	Please pass it on to Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u131	Yes, please, Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u132	Thank you, Honeymoon. Andrey Pavlovski, "Timoshenko" faction. Dear fellow countrymen, this is a very important decision because the government of Azarov is in grave violation of the Act on Pay for Work, Article 6. As a result, 4 million budgeters are underpaid and robbed, starting with the first tariff grade, of 300 dollars and still more. For example, qualified doctors, teachers, because the government doesn't implement the Pay for Work Act, they don't get, they don't get 600 or 700 dollars. Teachers in higher education institutions do not receive thousands or more of their money. So the government actually goes into the pockets of each, of the 4 million, of the budget, without paying, today's difficult time, at a time when there's a substantial price increase and tariffs, a substantial amount. Therefore, the decree is also intended to force the government to finally, Janukovic's authority, to implement legislation that is already in place to pay for the work of our underprivileged budgeters. And I'd like to say what blasphemy it is to say is that it's a populist law, that it's a populist decision. But no, my friends, it's only a decision that only proposes, in general, to implement the Act on Pay for Work. And that's why we insist, the Fatherland faction, that this decree be voted out, and the work of the government of Azarov, the government of the oligarchs, has been declared unsatisfactory in terms of paying for the work of our poor budgeters: teachers, doctors and others. Therefore, "The Yulia Timoshenko Block – "The Fatherland" supports the stated decision, we must finally raise the salary to our budgeters so that they can live more or less well in the difficult times of Yanukovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u133	Kenzier. Kenzier?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u134	Please, the word of Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u135	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. There are two moments, honourable colleagues and distinguished voters! First. Disappointment of the only tariff network that works when people are underpaid by manipulation around it. And second moment. Failure to implement the 6th article of the Ukrainian Pay for Work Act, which clearly states that the tariff rate of employeeI of charge should be higher than the minimum wage in the country is the second moment that is not being implemented. The unions have supported me, thank you, and everyone -- both masterful and opposing, and employers, of course, won't support me, because they want to save on our children, mostly on the hired labour force, on the workers, on our parents. Now, look what they've led this policy to, the latest statistics. Today, 23 percent of families with family members living outside the poverty line are all working. Nearly a quarter of the citizens work outside the poverty line. And if only one person works in the family, this is very common, and 37 percent are outside the poverty line. Why is that? Because the policy of cheap labor and the presence of wage in the shadows. Now let's keep looking. The average wage is 2,000 700 now in the country. The average wage is 2,000 100, the medic is a thousand 700. So the budget sector is not getting enough because of these distortions from the government of Azar, and there's no place to make more of them. The teacher is not going to work at the market to do the same work as the doctor. Problem? Problem. Should it be solved? I have to. You can stand back, but it's a non-state and anti-national approach. And we've shown Ukraine that we already have third place in terms of the number of applications for a green card to work in the United States, for example. I don't say any more about those who want to go to neighboring countries, we're already in the third city in the world on this indicator. Therefore, the problem of paying for the work must be solved. And my ruling, if you are the responsible authority, vote and then report to your President. That's the approach. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u136	Thank you. We're talking about this drink. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, Communist faction, please. He will be followed by Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u137	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! For the faction of the Company of Ukraine, there was no question whether to support the draft regulation or any bill relating to the increase in the wages of budget workers. We are constantly billing this subject, and we support this issue. Moreover, the faction, in particular its leader, Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko, Catherine Semenovna Samoylik, has repeatedly presented draft laws, regulations on this issue, i.e. there is no question of supporting the bill. More than that. I want to refer, because today more often referred to the Pay for Work Act, and I want to refer to another piece of legislation, particularly the Education Act, the Health Protection Act, which stipulates that the wages of workers in this area should not be below the average in industry. Today she's a long way from that. And when it comes to high school workers, it's a double industry average, which is that we have a pretty large supply of strength, and that's why there's all the needs and possibilities for solving this issue. I am absolutely convinced that the people working in this area are destined to receive adequate State support from the State. But I can't help but take one more warning, and I'd like to talk about it today. The honourable author of this decree, which we, once again emphasize, will support, was both the Minister of Social Policy and the Vice-Prime Minister of Humanities, and, unfortunately, did not resolve these issues. Today, he decided to take such an initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u138	Thank you. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! I was never a supporter of the discussion. Or the debate on social policy issues, based on the principles of moral law, so let me be clear. Vjačeslav Anatoliyovich, I will not be here to remind you of who, when you were Prime Minister, I will say what you can confirm today clearly. All the governments, as far as I'm in Parliament and as far as I'm concerned without Parliament, all government consciously, as necessary or without necessity, have been underestimating these indicators. But I'm asking you personally, you do have a lot of experience working on our committee, you don't have to confuse the principles of defining the EU, the single tariff network, and the tariff level. Dear colleagues, what is our problem? In Ukraine, the cost of national labor is underestimated. I remember a bill made by the faction of the People’s Party to increase, which cannot be done mechanically. Why does Ukraine’s population receive small wages? Why do we have poverty among the workers? But because the conditional units of cost, the conditional units of cost now dominate, the energy supply -- about 60 percent, the percentage of the bank loan is crazy, non-revolving, taxes, depreciation, and the wage in this conditional unit is very small, well, in numbers it's twice as low as it was in 1991. Where will the wages of the industry come from? And there's no pay in the budget. Therefore, we must work together to overcome this shameful concept of the cheap cost of the national labor force and to change statistics. And last of all, I'm asking you very much for your salary on the spot, and today on the Internet, there was a broadcast that said that the health appeal ended there. Why? But it's local taxes. Well, I tried on the committee to talk about it, they're local congregations, local taxes. Then we need help from the budget, from the inter-budget transfer. When. Then it turns out we're going to increase the minimum wage in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u140	Take care, it'll help you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u141	Finish up, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u142	You don't have to yell at me. Local congregations and taxes make up the bulk of budget salaries locally. So when we raise that salary, we have to automatically raise taxes in places. It's impossible to do that, so I'm thinking about this decision today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. I am voting on the day-to-day draft regulation on wage increases for employees in institutions, institutions and organizations of the budgetary area. Viacheslav Kirilenko’s bill I'd like to make a statement. [[12:45:01]] For 116 More specifically, the bill is not included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, we have one decision left in the category of issues that are included in the agenda: this is a draft decree on some measures to prevent the collection of excess information by primary financial monitoring subjects. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of the Royal Natalia Yuriovna. She's gone, isn't she? He is responsible for the committee, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. Yes. I got it. Please let Yuri Karakai of the committee take a position on the draft decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Regrettably, the draft decree was not considered at the committee meeting because it was registered only on October 25 of this year. However, he was considered at a meeting of a professional subcommittee. The idea of a subcommittee that was attended by independent experts, representatives of Nazbank, really, the problem is partly one that is being raised. However, the National Bank of 11.11 this year issued an explanation to commercial banks for the implementation of the bank’s customer identification rules. Well, speaking in plain language, what's the Kovalevsky project about? That banks should not, especially on pay cards, require some very extensive information about the availability of property, political membership, or the availability of scientific degrees. The National Bank gave an appropriate explanation on this point, which suggests that in the National Bank’s view, such information does not make sense for customers to ask. What is concerned with the purely legislative technique of the draft regulation. Well, Your Honor, Mrs. Queen may not have a draft decision by the Committee on Finance to develop an appropriate legislative solution to the matter. It can draw up an appropriate draft law and bring it to the Supreme Council for its consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the decree? Please sign up. In the short run, we're doing this procedure. Please, who did this to us. Stojko passes over to Archevity Stanislav. Please. Tishchenko will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think that's a problem, but it's a pretty big problem in part of what today requires a lot of unnecessary customer information. I was approached only in this room by probably two or three dozen deputies who showed a questionnaire that customers for banking institutions should be filling out today. I don't think it's the wish of banking institutions to demand such complete information from customers. So there is, of course, this problem. And ever since we passed a very complicated bill with you, it's about preventing and resisting legalization, laundering dirty money, you remember, it's the law that we called, "knocking" banks on their customers. But international organizations were required to do so. Then all the financial regulators, especially the National Bank, the Derfinmonitoring, the Tax Inspectorate, I'm not talking anymore about the special units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the B.S.A., the prosecutions, the courts began to give birth to their legal acts, which began to require additional information, referring to this law. And that's why the problem of bringing this law into line with the funding, especially the National Bank, is there. So it's very proper for the Royal to put the problem that the National Bank should bring it into line. And I would add, in this first paragraph, you have to write necessarily and also reduce the number of documents that are required and the information that is provided. So bring it in and cut it down. Of course, the second paragraph of the ruling was rightly stated by the predecessor who spoke on behalf of the committee that it was the task of each deputy, not the committee. The committee was determined when I passed the Law on Prevention and Opposition to Financial Monitoring. Today, indeed, the banking system is overloaded with government functions. Banking institutions today are the currency controller of the country, the currency controller of the country. Today, the banking system is the supervisor of financial monitoring and is forced to issue a list of documents to tax and many, many others, all of this creates conflict in the banking system.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u147	Thank you. Tishenko Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u148	Please pass the word to Odarchenk Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u149	Please, Odarchenko, from the place, I understand, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! You've seen those questionnaires that let everyone who's bank customers fill out today? Look, it's not just about having an asset or an address, it's biographical data, it even happens that a client of a bank that opens an account or works with that bank has to tell which political leaders he's working with. Imagine what we experienced today, today, when a bank client has to confirm some of his political loyalty in the relevant polls. Where are we going? This is a testimony to the fact that everyone in Ukraine is trying to intimidate, make such an obedient slave out of it, and continue to manipulate it properly. Instead, we see that we don't have any tools to control the flow of money into offshore areas and to form it in general, to enable us today to use the money that is made in Ukraine for the benefit of the Ukrainians. There's money leaking, Ukraine's losing serious resources, we're seeing figures up to $30 billion. Here we are, private citizens who open up job projects, pay accounts in banks, make them tell you what political parties they're working with, because then they won't be able to get paid. Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to vote in favour of this decision is very necessary and relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u151	Thank you. I'd like to invite Gordien Sergey Volodymyrovich, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u152	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I went out to this rostrum because people in the Poltava region called me and wrote me, and they were also outraged by the fact that they were collecting particular information, namely passports, for Ukrainian citizens. What's going on? And that is that some of the national MPs who represent the so-called "carcases" have already decided to go to major districts in the elections. A social union has been formed, and today the citizens of Ukraine are being invited to the invitation to work, the travel agency will be working, the machines that will bring grain and other products, and they will distribute these rations. The rations are distributed, one kilogram of Greek, one kilogram of pasta, one kilogram of sugar, one bottle of oil, a can and a poster, or a calendar of a future candidate. And in this invitation, which is on a very beautiful sheet, with very beautiful portraits of those or other candidates, it says, "Dear Grandma Manu, come, but don't forget to take your passport." So these midwives from Orgiecki, Lubensky and other districts are asking if these people were growing this Greek, and we don't see them running the agro-firms, and today they're giving us what they're looting because they didn't grow it, and what they're growing with our hands and our children, they're giving it to us. So why do they need this passport? They probably want to use our passports when the land is being sold or at other times. And why don't they love us so much? Because the people I'm talking about, who's doing this, they voted in favour of raising the retirement age, for pension reform, they voted in the first reading for taking down the benefits of the Chernobyls. And they're doing this as a little bit of sugar in the form of that kilogram of sugar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u153	Thank you. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u154	The Poltavcans strongly oppose the gathering of such information, and the Company will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, of the other factions, no one insists for a minute? Then I put the vote to the agenda of the daily project. Some measures are taken to prevent the collection of excess information by primary financial monitoring subjects. Natalie Queen's Bill. Please vote. [[12:55:18]] For the 180.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u156	Project not included. With the chapter related to our inclusion in the agenda, we finished. Now we're going to look at specific agenda issues that are already included in the agenda, and we have the opportunity to look at them. We are considering a draft Decision on the non-admission of biased and selective justice in criminal proceedings against Lucenka and Timoshenko. [[8733]] There'll be no objection if the procedure is shortened? No, it's not. Please vote. [[12:56:08]] For 215 Offer supported. As reported by Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk. Get ready for Collechnick Wadima.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u157	Dear people of Ukraine! I would like to deliver from this rostrum a bill that destroys Ukraine as a state itself, the position that is today the most resonant for Ukraine, the Ukrainians, the European Union and for two simple people is the Prime Minister of the former Timoshenko Yula Volodymyrna and former Minister of Interior Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich. I'm not going to talk about political persecution right now. Everybody knows that. I'm not going to stress once again that the President and the authorities are fighting their political opponents and that what Timoshenko and Lucenko have said about playing is nothing more than fear: fear of people, fear of political opponents and the desire to destroy political opponents. But what I'm going to say today is that it's no longer a political investigation, it's a physical destruction. What happens personally to these two people, who once held such high office in this country, did something right, did something wrong. But none of them killed, none of them ordered, none of them were looted, and none of them had blood on their hands. None of them, if making mistakes, made these mistakes because of the fact that all humans make mistakes. But you destroy them physically! You're destroying Timoshenko, who can't get up for 12 days. She can't get up for the simple reason that you won't even let the doctors in, you won't be able to take her away, and you just checked the condition of this person, this woman, in the end. You destroy Lucenka and you know that he has a whole range of diseases.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u158	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u159	Release Timoshenko and Lucenka, execute the court, don't be afraid that these people will be free. You're still not going to destroy them physically or politically. Fight fear and fight like politicians, not like thieves and bandits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u160	The committee is headed by the Committee on Justice, Wadim Kolesnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u161	Dear people of Ukraine, it is difficult for me to comment on the statement made by the previous rapporteur, who stated that he is proposing a bill that destroys Ukraine. I officially state that neither he nor the opposition will be able to destroy Ukraine, and we will prevent them from doing so. With regard to the draft decision that has been made, he is invited to hear reports from representatives of one of the parties to the trial at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. And the heads of the Supreme Court, which is not a party to the trials, have no procedural status. And in general, there's a lot to say about this bill, but the Ukrainian Act on the Court of Judges guarantees everyone the right to defend his rights and freedoms and legitimate interests. The enforcement of this right is entrusted to the courts of the first instance, the Court of Appeal, the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The Constitution of Ukraine clearly states that justice in Ukraine is exercised solely by courts, not by the Supreme Council. It is not possible to delegate the functions of the courts and to assign them to other authorities or officials. Similarly, the Criminal Code establishes that justice in criminal matters is exercised only by a court of law. With regard to the right of national MPs to receive information on specific cases that are not part of the national MPs or the Supreme Council, according to the Law on the Court of Justice, such referrals shall not be dealt with by the court unless otherwise provided by legislation. At the same time, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has clarified that the independence of judges is ensured, inter alia, by the prohibition of any influence on judges, by the reduction of the level of guarantees of independence and by the non-touching of judges. The prohibition of judges of any form independent of their appearance by public authorities, institutions of pressure or verification. Finally, according to the current state of information, the criminal case concerning Lucenko has not been concluded by court. As for Timoshenko, she and Lucenko did not make complaints and verify the legality and validity of these decisions in an appeal and cassation order. There is no possibility of seeking clarification.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u162	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u163	This opportunity, which is guaranteed by the Constitution and justice, has not yet been used. The exercise of these and other guarantees is the exclusive competence of the judiciary, which, according to the Constitution, is a law separate from the legislature. Thus, the meaningful positions and general concept of the project, if adopted, would constitute interference by the legislative authority in the actions of the judges in the exercise of justice. An attempt by the legislative authority to assume the functions of the competent judicial authority and thus influence the content of judicial decisions in specific cases, challenge the obligation and complicate the execution and the court decisions in Ukraine. The committee suggests rejecting this bill as unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u164	Yeah, we'll sign up for the performances if they're desirable. Please, Shustik, the BUT faction. Behind her is Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u165	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished TV and radio audiences, the Party of Regions is really difficult to comment on, because by their pseudo-judicial reform on July 7, last year, they simply destroyed an independent judicial branch of power. The "Fatherland, BUYT" party will undoubtedly support that decision. For 104 days now, Julia Tymoshenko has been illegally detained in the SISO. Yuri Lucenko has been behind bars for 326 days. Think about these numbers. Today, Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenko, is in prison, and tomorrow, any citizen of Ukraine. If such lawlessness can be done with politicians, with leaders of opposition, what can be expected of ordinary citizens of Ukraine? Black hooks, SZO, prison -- that's what they are, modern methods of fighting other people's minds. A devastating desire to crush his main opponent has turned active rulers into political executioners. The principle of legality today has yielded to the principle of lawlessness. They haven't finished one fake case against Timoshenko, they're after another. The 1996 case, closed by the Supreme Court for lack of crime, has been brought out of the archives, so think about it. However, public prosecutors in their activities today are governed by a specific, understandable right that has nothing to do with the law. And they're in such a hurry to question Julia Timoshenko right in her cell, right on the bed, because she can't move. And access to the cells is a precedent. Today, they are given green light, but lawyers and relatives are simply not allowed. All of this is approved by pseudologists who swore an oath to Hippocrates. Yesterday's parliamentary day led to the vote of the Party of Regions and the majority of the repressions in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u166	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u167	Ironically, yesterday a document of Ukraine’s legal monitoring was published under the heading 3 of the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, which clearly states that there are serious suspicions of political motives in Timoshenko’s affairs. Thank you for your attention. Please support Arsenius Yatsenuk's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u168	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u169	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear voters! Since yesterday, Parliament has been considering a bill on the humanization of criminal legislation. At the same time, things were totally immoral and inhuman in the capital city of Kiev. Now Parliament is looking at humanization. It's a beautiful, wonderful word. Meanwhile, Julia’s daughter, Timoshenko, Eugenia, is unable to go on a date with her. At this time, Sergey Vlasenko, Yulia's lawyer, Timoshenko, cannot go on a date. At this time, the already lying sick in the S.E.O.U., Julia Timoshenko, gives a witness to the investigative officers of another fabricated criminal case. This is such a humanization in Ukraine. In front of the whole world. Which, of course, only strains the relationship between power and the people. And it only speeds up the political end of this power. At this time, when Parliament is considering dehumanization called dehumanization, Lucenko is getting bad, for the third time, in the Cave Court. Because there's a court going on over there. For the third time, an ambulance is called directly into the courtroom. Doctors come in, give him some drops, give him shots, and say whispers to everyone who's there, who can tell him that we need to hospitalize Yuri Lucenka's civilian hospital immediately. Does the authorities know about this or not? He knows! Any confirmation from the doctors? Yes! Why doesn't he? Kills the physical leaders of the opposition. Well, then the future of such authority is more than questionable. In view of this, the decision made must be supported. Since both Timoshenko and Lucenko, who are under investigation and Timoshenko, have appealed to their lawyers who have been wrongly convicted, solely for political reasons, and need immediate release, in order to restore their work to the benefit of the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u170	Yes, other factions do not insist. Question completed. I put to the vote a decree on the non-admission of biased and selective justice in criminal proceedings against Lucenko and Timoshenko. [[Registration number 8733]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:07:46]] Z-77 Not supported. The factions? Please. The Party of Regions – 1, BUT – 65, Our Ukraine – 8, the Communists, the Reforms, the People's Party – did not vote, the non-fractional – 3. The decree is rejected. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance on the Reduction of the Single Contribution Rates for Natural Persons - Entrepreneurs. [[Registration number 8529]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[13:08:37]] For 212 Dear colleagues! There's a letter from the Queen that she can't report today. The truth isn't telling why she can't report. I'm betting on the resolution of the session room. Who, in order to consider the drafts, does not consider the bills in relation to what the Kingdom asks them to carry, I ask you to be determined. Excuse me, take down the vote. Are you listening to what I'm saying? I'm voting on the proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] I repeat, don't wave your hands. I'm voting on the proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting on a proposal to support the Royal's motion to move her issues. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:09:55]] For-40 Not supported, so we'll look at it. There is no drafter for unknown reasons. From the committee, please, Jaroslav Suhi. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider the bill. Please vote. [[13:10:25]] For 222 Supported. Please, Jaroslav Dry from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u171	Honorary colleagues, large businesses, medium - size and small businesses for years, especially after the introduction of a mandatory government social insurance policy required the introduction of a single contribution to a mandatory government social insurance. On 08.07.2010, we passed this law with you, and it's called "Congregation and Accounting for the Only Contribution to National Social Insurance. " It is quite clear that such a complex bill and such complex social and labour relations will require and continue to require, and now require amendments and additions to this bill. The Royal Collegiate Bill proposes to halve the sole contribution to the general government social insurance for natural persons, including those who have chosen a simplified system of taxation and members of the families of those individuals who participate in their entrepreneurial activities. [[entrepreneurs]] Simply put, this law looks like a comparative table, where some of the digits change into other numbers by half. According to the legislator, this will help to reduce the financial burden in the form of a single contribution to entrepreneurs and self - employed persons. First. I'm not going to talk about what the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance thinks this bill will require 2.5 billion dollars from the budget. You know perfectly well any social bill. For every social bill in the Ministry of Finance, there's always a scarecrow figure: 2 billion, 30 billion. That's not the point. The point is that a reduction of a single contribution under the terms of the definition. In the absence of conditions to determine the sources of compensation for the solidarity system and to resolve the issue of taking these persons into service will lead to a huge problem. This problem seems to be as follows: Double-decreased premiums, so twice the age. So it's to get the right to receive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u172	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u173	In order to gain the right to a minimum pension at the age of 20, persons will have to pay pension benefits over periods twice the amount provided for by legislation, i.e. women will have to pay 40 years instead of 20 years, and men will have to pay 40 years instead of 25 to 50 years. Such good intentions result in a negative. That's why the committee's refusing. recommends rejecting the bill and the joint representative body does not support it, and neither the Ministry of Labour nor the Ministry of Finance nor other government structures support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u174	Let's sign up for the performance. Stoyan, please, Alexander. Pavlovsky's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u175	I definitely signed up to say that the question needs to be solved by a small, medium-sized business. We need to activate them, we need to stimulate them. But look what we've got going on. You recall that in due course of time, the premiums for miners’ social funds were cancelled. And we got a big hole. As a result of that budget gap, we were unable to pay hospitals, funerals, and other social benefits on time. And now the only social contribution he provides, I want to remind you, is four kinds of payout: this is the Pension Fund, this is temporary disability, this is unemployment and all that. If you go in because of what the Royal One is offering, it means that in fact those who are engaged in entrepreneurial activities will not pay any contributions to any fund. I have a question: Why should doctors pay for them? Why should teachers pay, miners, and many workers who work and benefit from contributions to social funds provide pensions in the future? The question of child support, the question of treatment, and so forth, is that we cannot be selective simply because it is a small business or a medium business. Here's another thing to do, what we've done before, is the system, let's say, well, taxation is something different so that we don't overload these people who do business. And when it comes to the filling of social funds, they should be equal to all conditions. Because if you don't fill them in at the expense of these deductions that have businessmen, middle-sized businesses, it's going to be, as my colleague Dry said, an increase or an insurance internship, a retirement internship, and you can't do that. This bill, therefore, has good intentions, but it is financially unenforced and cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u176	Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u177	Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! Well, if it's a good bill and it's got good intentions, it needs to be supported, because there's always no money in power for social things, as colleagues in the Party of Regions say. On the other hand, see what he suggests, establishing that individuals who are entrepreneurs, including those who have chosen a simplified system of taxation and who are already retired, are entitled to voluntary participation in compulsory government insurance. And it is also predicted that the amount of the single contribution, which is voluntarily paid by such persons, is directed to the general government pension insurance and other types of state social insurance. So what's wrong with this bill? He's just sorting this out for entrepreneurs. On the other hand, I would like to point out that such impeccable policies of today’s authorities have led to the fact that now, for example, the Chernobylites are meeting tomorrow at 11 a.m. in Lubna to hold an urgent emergency assembly of Chernobylites to decide how to live on in the most excruciating conditions that the authorities have created for them and, as you know, that Azarov is not paying them an essential part of their pension right now. In fact, the authorities are currently trying to execute the 41st hungry Chernobylite in the Donetsk Pension Fund. You know, that's where the pension fund was captured yesterday and in Kharkiv. So let's adopt a good law if it makes a little bit better for small businesses. Let's support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u178	Vladimir Kaplienko, followed by Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u179	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Well, you know, when we look at this bill, we came to the next conclusion. It's like a good slogan, but we can't find a good next. further care for our citizens. Look what you're talking about. So in European co-operation, in particular in the context of European social democracy, there are three main features on which a normal just society can be built: solidarity, freedom and justice. In this case, it's been violated, in my opinion, and in my colleagues' view, justice is the main thing. Why? Because there is only one category of Ukrainian citizens who can use this right to reduce or even refuse the payment of public compulsory social insurance and contributions under this scheme. Why is it not clear why self - occupied settlements alone? What should those who work, for example, in public institutions, hospitals, educational schools, and so forth, do? Why? In our view, this is a small-business game that registers its form of entrepreneurial activity by means of a simplified system. The following issue was violated, in principle, by two valid laws: Article 27 in Part 1 of the Ukrainian Budget Code because of financial justification. And we would also like to point out that such issues should also be linked to the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance, which is not done. Therefore, the parliamentary group will not support this bill and will in principle consider it to be only populist and, in large account, antisocial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u180	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u181	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to look at this from a professional point of view as the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Is there a need to increase the level of pensions in Ukraine? Of course you do. Because even the average pension rate in Ukraine, which is 1,200 dollars, is completely inadequate to the work that people have done with 40-50 years of work, and that's all it has to do with the principles of social justice. That is certainly why we need to. Moreover, two thirds of Ukrainian citizens receive a pension of 1,000 dollars or less. That's why if the Pension Fund, and it has to work on it, there's at least a reserve, then it really needs to be directed towards increasing the current level of pension insurance. As for the bill that was passed today. You know, there was a thought that intentions were good. Clearly, good intentions. But together we know where the road is paved with good intentions. Now, about the substance of this bill. It is proposed that the pension fund be reduced by half. The question is, What about retirement? And we're going to leave the pension the same way it's supposed to be today. Then there is the question: Who is responsible for solving these questions? At the expense of a budget worker, a teacher, a doctor, a worker, etc., etc.? On the basis of the category for which it is proposed. It's both unrealistic and unfair. That's why the faction of the Company of Ukraine, despite the fact that we are constantly supporting any initiatives aimed at increasing pensions, this bill is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u182	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to support the Act in the first reading of amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance on a reduction in the rates of the sole contribution for natural persons - entrepreneurs. [[Registration number 8529]] The decision of the committee and the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is to reject the bill. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:22:01]] For-53 The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance on voluntary participation in a system of compulsory public social insurance. [[Registration number 9018]] The author of the bill is the National Deputy of the Royal Republic. The committee reports to the Deputy Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, please. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure, please vote. [[13:23:02]] For 208 Offer supported. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u183	Dear colleagues! I immediately apologize, if I may explain in detail the position of the committee in some way, I could just read out the committee's decision, but I would very much like to address today's opposition, which tomorrow will become a power, so consider that these problems will be solved by you and you will have to solve them. Therefore, the financial and budgetary stability of Ukraine cannot be balanced, nor can the stability of social insurance funds be disturbed. So, again, the Law on the Congregation and on the single contribution to the general government social insurance. The author proposes to provide for the right of individuals who are entrepreneurs, including those who are already in a position to make retirements available at an age, to participate voluntarily in a system of compulsory state social insurance. However, it is suggested that voluntary participation in a system of compulsory state social insurance is a condition, listen carefully, but simply voluntarily participates in a bank and pays the premiums, but it is a condition for counting the duration of the activity into an insurance scheme to calculate the amount of retirement by age. We can't do that, we're paying contributions to the Pension Fund, we're getting a pension, we're not willing to pay anyone, we're supposed to get benefits from the general boiler of the Pension Fund. Thus, the introduction of such benefits for individual categories of citizens will create a different condition compared to other payers. But another, colleagues, article 10 of this basic law, which I've told you about, regulates and clearly regulates the question of voluntary participation in payment to the single contributors. And most importantly, I want to remind everyone, on July 7, 2011, we passed a law amending the Tax Code, amending article 4 of the basic law, which clearly states that the possibility of exempting this category of persons from payment of a single contribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u184	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u185	If they are retired by age or disability and receive a pension or social assistance according to the law. The committee proposes to reject, and no positive response has been received.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u186	Let's sign up for a discussion. Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I am surprised at the introduction of such bills by a man who engages in entrepreneurial activities. More specifically, I'm surprised because she wants these laws in general to deprive herself and other forms of social contributions in general. See what's going on? Voluntary social contributions. Let us now vote with you on the voluntary payment of social contributions from all citizens of Ukraine. Wants a teacher to pay to the Pension Fund or the Employment Fund, wants a doctor to pay, not pay. And let's say you don't have to pay, take it as a payday, and when you get sick, and when you get out of retirement, you look for money. So you can't be like that at all, in principle. But what is proposed? Those who work in the middle business system, those who really don't work easy, don't stand there on the market and make a penny. But they have to worry, first of all, about their future pension. And pay, if they're willing, for which they'll get a normal pension, or a minimum, or a minimum, or an average pension; for which the hospital will pay, when they get sick, for burial and so on. That is, the introduction of the principle of volunteering, on the one hand, will certainly allow these people to increase their finances a little bit, trade or the development of small and medium-sized businesses, and on the other hand this will reduce the pension funds and other social funds a lot. So with the adoption of this law, we actually give one an opportunity to do so, and others are said to do so because we have the Ukrainian Social Insurance Act, which obliges each person to account for any contributions to social funds. It is impossible to pass this law. Even if we accepted it, it would be an uproar, first of all, between those who pay the premiums and those who don't pay. And secondly, that would be a significant reduction in the single social contribution fund and actually people couldn't get normal pensions. He needs to be rejected by this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u188	So other factions don't insist. I'm voting on the proposal. The committee's proposing a rejection. The main scientific and expert office is proposing to send a draft for further work. I am voting on the author's proposal to adopt a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting for a single contribution to a general public social insurance obligation on voluntary participation in a system of compulsory public social insurance. [[Registration number 9018]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:28:45]] For-50 The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Collection and Accounting of the Only Social Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. [[on persons who have chosen a simplified tax system]] [[Registration number 9020]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [["13:29:28]] For-191 Offer supported. The author of the bill, Xenius Lapin, has the floor to prepare Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u189	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!".. Well, since the result is completely clear to me, I'll let myself explain why I'm making such an offer. My proposal, by the way, is very simple and totally 100 percent consistent with the principle of justice. I propose that entrepreneurs and individuals for themselves, not for hired workers, but for themselves alone, have the right to pay voluntarily or not to pay the only social contribution. And depending on whether they're paying or not, or whether they're counting, or they're not paying, they're not counting, they're not getting a pension. I think it's absolutely fair, we've discussed this proposal tens of times ourselves with entrepreneurs. They understand it well and report what they agree to, first of all. Secondly, your colleagues, this is actually another world-viewed philosophy. You might say that a working person is paying for it. Well, first of all, she doesn't pay for it, but the employer pays for it, so let's look at the truth in the eye. We have 99 percent of the social contribution formed by the employer and only 1 percent by the employee himself. So a person does not even know that he pays social contributions. So, your honor, please tell me, half of you are actually living on dividends that you got from being the founders of those or other big companies. You don't ask yourself why you don't pay a penny in social insurance on dividends? And I'll give you the answer, because it's a different kind of income. So, from entrepreneurial activity, so is a different nature of income. This is not a wage that requires compulsory social insurance in all parts of the world. This is income, which is closest to dividends, this is the income from their capital. The capital is just in a different form. So actually, I insist on what.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u190	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u191	Businessmen themselves can decide how they can secure their future. At least because they've already taken their fate into their own hands. The state no longer guarantees them anything. And by the way, here are a couple of respectable colleagues asking about the hospital, so I want to give you some simple information: an entrepreneur can't get a hospital yet. Because he's thought to be earning income during this period. A hired employee knows that when he's sick, he doesn't get any income. And the entrepreneur who stands on the market is believed to be earning income at this time, well, and that he is sick. No one gets a hospital. Therefore, my friends, all your arguments from the wicked one. In fact, there's a different nature of income and it needs to be built in a different way completely by state policy about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u192	Yes, please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I will immediately say that this bill certainly deserves attention. It's different from the previous drafts, because it has an essence and there is an understanding of the matter -- it's clear. The content of the bill was clearly and clearly explained, and I will briefly remind you. Family members and entrepreneurs need to be excluded from the number of compulsory payers and referred to those who voluntarily participate. Kseniya Mikhailna said that, and even in the explanatory note, entrepreneurs are able to generate savings on their own to compensate for expenses, in case of insurance cases, as are members of farms and citizens working outside Ukraine. That's what the author thinks. It is quite clear that we cannot say this, all entrepreneurs can now share, because this business is extremely vulnerable, all the more so for the economy. But I'm sorry, I'm just not for argument, not for argument, let me quote: "A person is an insured person in the event of payment of an insurance premium on behalf of him personally or the employer. During periods of failure to pay a single contribution at will or in case of lack of knowledge of the matter, they will not be included in the insurance system, which in turn deprives them of the potential of receiving future material security and social services. And the last. On 7 July, I remind you again, on 7 July 2011, we passed a law amending the Tax Code and some other legislative acts, including the amendment to article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to General Compulsory Insurance, where they settled this issue: it may not pay, it may voluntarily, if it is a pensioner of age or a disabled person. Dear colleagues, the pension insurance system, the social insurance system is solid, no one else in the world has come up with anything else. Yeah, there's a accumulation system, there's a voluntary pension system when there's a bank there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u194	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u195	But in general, this system is solid, so to delete one category or another means to immediately balance the solidarity system of the population of Ukraine. Unfortunately, that is the reality of today. The committee proposes to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u196	Let's sign up for the performance. Please, Ganushkak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u197	Hanustak Yuri, "BUT is the Fatherland." Gentlemen, let's take a look at the real situation that exists in this market right now. People don't pay anyway. They're avoiding it. What is the bill about? It's actually about warning people. If you don't pay, you won't have a pension. One thing to consider. Starting in 2000, each of us Ukrainians has been accounted for in a personalized manner for the funds they have paid to the Pension Fund. We're still going to move to a system where the pension will be paid in full, based on the full amount that the person has paid to the Pension Fund. We have to get people ready for this, this process, this pact that's going to come out anyway. Because it's in Germany in the same one, there's a solid accumulation system. You could call her that. I mean, there's a lot of funding from the entire fund, but it's a lot of savings in the sense that your account, your account, is exactly accounted for. And depending on which average salary per year, the corresponding coefficient is set after this year, and it's determined how much you're going to be paid from the average term of retirement. So in this respect, this bill for a transitional period until people get used to what they need to earn, it's extremely useful, it's extremely useful. And it doesn't conflict with the law that was passed in part of pension legislation. Although, frankly, it's weak, it's pension legislation and it's incomplete. If they said "a," we should say "b" for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u198	Please, Xenia Lapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to add a few arguments. For a long time, such, you know, inner enmity has been created. Doctors say you don't get a pension because entrepreneurs don't pay. Black people, war children have been told you're underpaid because entrepreneurs don't pay. You know, in the last five and a half years, when entrepreneurs are forced to pay in full for themselves, the teachers, the doctors, the children of war, the Chernobyls and the Afghans have realized that there's no way to make payments to entrepreneurs before they get what they're getting, there's really no. Because our pension fund is a black hole. Because we have extremely imperfect pension legislation. Because in fact, we don't have a lot of insurance payouts left on the Pension Fund. As a result, some today pay much more and fall into shadow because of this very social legislation. Others break the fence because they take away the last penny and the benefits. So they all realized, friends, that their enemy is not really against each other, but their enemy is in power today. Finally, you have united all Ukraine’s hatred of power with all your unwillingness to reform. You'd hear what they're saying to you. And especially all the arguments that I've been trying to make in the correct form here through the parliamentary rostrum, they are echoing, but in much less correct form. And these words are on account of the power that takes away from everyone and gives nothing to anyone. Why won't he? Because, unfortunately, real reform of pension legislation has never taken place, and this must be acknowledged. We've done half a step, we don't know which ones, and we don't know what interests. And finally, we're going to have to go back, but we need to come back with our eyes open and understand what we're doing, rather than then coming back just under pressure, not understanding how to get out.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u200	One minute from the missing faction, Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, see what you have to offer. I'd like to draw your attention to the offer of a colleague of Laupina. A man works in a small business, he's earning a penny at the time, he's postponing for old age, and he's not paying for any funds. So, Kseniya Mikhailna, well, if this person works for many years, he's going to raise money, he's going to have dividends and a lot of other things. What's going to happen? She's sick, she's disabled? Who's gonna pay her? Next. Business is booming, this small, medium. A person retires, and he doesn't have a pension, and then we're going to have to pay a social pension and the state will have to pay for it. Social pension or minimum pension, at the expense of those who paid to the Pension Fund, at the expense of other categories of workers. Can the principle of volunteering be introduced? I understand when big businessmen, they have big business, they have big bills, they don't need a pension, they don't need social protection. And you say, "Little business, don't pay!" And then you'll be left alone. But you can't accept this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u202	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting for the Only Social Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. [[on persons who have chosen a simplified tax system]] [[Registration number 9020]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:41:43]] Z-77 The bill was rejected. We are considering the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8406]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:42:15]] For 210 Offer supported. The author reports a bill by Sergio Sobolev. Get ready for Volodymyr Makeenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, this bill proposes to address two key issues. The first question is, according to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, these sections, which relate to the procedure for the nomination of the Head of the Court of Auditors and the Commissioner for Human Rights, do not correspond to the Constitution. What is the point of this question? The Rules stipulate the right to apply this candidature exclusively under the Head of the Supreme Council. Although we will see a complete list of the credentials of the Head of the Supreme Council, there is no complete list of credentials. That is why changes and additions to the existing Rules should be made. And I propose that this issue be settled by virtue of the right of candidates for these posts, and also by the position of deputy head of the Court of Auditors and supervisors, directly through the rules of procedure. The other one. I would like to remind you that an organ such as the Court of Auditors and the Human Rights Commissioner are in fact two bodies of the Supreme Council, which, on behalf of the Parliament of Ukraine, one exercises parliamentary control over the use of budgetary resources and the other actually exercises control over the observance of human rights on behalf of Parliament. That is why it is logical that these powers — namely, the heads of the Court of Auditors and the Human Rights Commissioner — should be directly transferred to the opposition. I understand that in the current Constitution, there is no reference to the right of opposition in the current Rules. But not always the authorities are forever. That's why my proposal is the next. In order for at least 90 deputies to have the right to make a proposal regarding the appointment of the head of the Court of Auditors and the candidate of the Commissioner for Human Rights, as well as to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u204	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u205	You could have brought in the candidates. directly to the supervisors of the Court of Auditors and to the deputy head of the Court of Auditors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u206	Thank you. Vladimir MacKayenko, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u207	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Committee will consider the draft Act of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sobolje Sergey Vladislavovich. [[by number 8406]] The committee has not yet considered the draft Law of Ukraine. Instead, the Rules Subcommittee has prepared a draft conclusion for the committee proposing that the proposed bill should be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative without consideration. The bill proposes to supplement the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation with a new chapter 13, which provides for a new order of appointment for the posts and release of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine from human rights, head and members of the National Court of Auditors. In view of the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints individuals, not individual national deputies of Ukraine, the parliamentary majority, or opposition, we find it inappropriate to change the valid norm of article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules by separating it into a separate chapter. The relevant changes must also be made not only to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, but also to the laws of Ukraine on the Court of Auditors and on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. We also note that the bill applied terminology that was provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine, which existed before the adoption on 30 September 2010, by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, of the decision to re-establish the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine in its 1996 edition. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the draft is appropriate to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u208	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Sign up. Yes, please, Odarchenko Yuri, Fedun next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u209	I ask you to give my word to Mr. Ganustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u210	Please, it's Ganushka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u211	Hanustak Yuri, "BUT is the Fatherland." Gentlemen, let's get out of the way of understanding what this is. The Court of Auditors is essentially not a decision-making body, it is an advisory body, which at the competent level provides conclusions as to what quality of public finances we have. We're all absolutely interested in making the quality of the budget. was tall, very tall. To do that, we need them to be sufficiently protected from the actions of the active authorities. It is because of the idea expressed in this bill that the authorities can change, and the finances are constant, that is, public finances must be protected. Because every year, I find that the quality of the budget is falling sharply, the corrosion has penetrated our budget system completely. We need to raise this quality, so we need an impartial body, that is, an organ, where most are made up of opposition forces, people, or those who have been within the opposition force's quota, to give an objective assessment. This decision will be followed by the Supreme Council, taking into account those conclusions of the Court of Auditors, or not taking into account the conclusions, but at least they should be made competently. Even if there are certain faults in terminology, there are some faults in the bill itself, but the idea is very good. So I would recommend that the Supreme Council adopt this law as a basis. The rest-- let's get this over with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u212	Please, Fedun, Party of Regions. Chaplain's next. Yes, please, Vladimir Kaplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u213	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! The MP's Group on Reforms for the Future considered this legislative initiative, which in principle refers to the procedure for the appointment or release of the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine from human rights, the management of the Court of Auditors and the main supervisors of the same institution. We're getting out of this. That there should be a separate chapter 13 of the Supreme Council Rules, I would like to start with the following. As a representative of the Central Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I hold a position that should be kept as far as possible in the future status quo of the current institution and should not introduce such, you know, money that could deprive the Supreme Council of Ukraine of its constitutional rights. Secondly, there is an interpretation of what is the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority. No document and legislative act, including the Constitution of Ukraine, has such terms to date Next, granting certain preferences to the internal parliaments in the process of forming parliamentary control bodies is unacceptable because. Because this control will be carried out by all factions of Ukraine, not by specific minorities, mostly opposition or coalitions. And thirdly, in the analysis of articles 208 and 210 of the Rules of Procedure of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, it turns out that the appointment and dismissal of persons for the respective posts takes place by a professional committee, such as the Regulatory Committee of the Supreme Council, after assessing the professional qualities of these candidates. It is this legislative initiative that we are just considering that deprives the Supreme Council of this requirement. Based on these arguments, we feel that it is inappropriate to support this bill and therefore we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u214	Please, Yuri Carmazin. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u215	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, I think we should look at this bill from three perspectives. The first point of view is the assessment of the overall situation. Whether we have a functioning institution today that exercises impartial, objective control over government finances. [[The Court of Auditors]] Of course we don't. Because the House of Accounts is in suspended condition. She was in a previous period in suspended condition. They came to the point where the deputies died, and I'm sorry, they didn't substitute for how it didn't work. So here's my question: does someone control government finances? But of course, it controls. Look at The Journal of Public Procurement. It's a chronicle of Ukrainian corruption, if you look at it. Everyone calmly understands that in Kharkiv City, you can buy signed buses and pay more than new buses, and no one will respond. You can buy anything in this country because nobody checks. The CIA is only being summoned to the Inter Channel to accuse the opposition, and the House of Accounts is not working. So the second position. As a principle, this law. As a principle, it's right because and who's in control of the use of state finances. What, the minister of finance who spends, or who should? Or the representatives of the Party of Regions who are to delegate the House of Accounts. Of course, experts, experts, delegated opposition. Whatever the case, I passed the Opposition Act or did not accept it. I have heard within six months from the Minister of Justice, from other officials, that they are ready for the opposition to delegate experts to the Court of Auditors. And today, it looks like under the aegis, that's the third position, that there's no mechanism, we're not looking at this issue. Because the Head of the Supreme Council, I understand him, doesn't see a consensus in the session room on 226 votes. But if we never have consensus, the structures will never work. Sobolev is therefore absolutely right in that part that we need to propose a mechanism that will allow us to have an institution that controls government finances in Ukraine. I therefore believe that voting is now in favour of either controlling Ukraine's finances, or the authorities are refusing to control state finances, and will continue to live by the procedure of one executive and their relatives or acquaintances there who will use the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u216	I continue to attend the meetings to consider all the issues scheduled for today. Please, one minute, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u217	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. I only have one minute, so just one line. In agreement with my predecessors ’ comments on what both the Court of Auditors and other institutions should be objective, I cannot agree that they can be objective when there are quotas, who will be there. You know, I don't see a direct dependence today on the fact that if they're opposition or minority representatives, they're going to be objective. What are you talking about? There is no objectivity today, for absolute objectivity and the principle of objectivity run counter to a party - owned or party - sector principle. As long as the assignment and the quota are political, and under the present conditions, the party character, there will be no objectivity, including from the opposing leaders and representatives, which we often observe today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u218	Thank you. Question completed. The only thing I remind you of is the law that says that the head of the Accounting Chamber is appointed for seven years. If the opposition is prepared to stand in opposition for seven years, let him appoint his representative. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8406]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:55:48]] For-47 Not supported. The bill was rejected. And one more question. A draft decision to hear information from the Attorney General of Pshonka, Minister of Interior of Mohilov and the head of the Kyiv City State Administration of Popov on the unlawful interference between the authorities of the internal affairs of the opposition parties in Kiev on 24 August 2011 on Ukraine's Independence Day, following the authorized route to Volodimirska Street in Kiev. [[Registration number 9084]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:56:45]] For 210 Offer supported. Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Odarchenko. Prepare Sweden from the committee if there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u219	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear fellow countrymen, colleagues, we all know of the events that took place on August 24 in Kiev on the anniversary of Ukraine’s Independence Day. The Constitution clearly prescribes the sovereign right of citizens to peaceful meetings, a clear and clear Constitution. Citizens, if they want to gather, only have to inform the executive of their meeting. Because the authorities under our Constitution belong to the people. Dear friends, what happened on the 24th? Regardless of the fact that opposition parties applied for peaceful meetings and for a peaceful walk on the streets of Volodymyrsk, it was clear that in legal terms, the city authorities had notified the route of this peaceful meeting to the border with the militia. It wasn't just a border, it was a few borders from the militia and the Berkut workers, it was a metal fence that was built. And this militia has prevented people from advancing and fulfilling their constitutional wishes. And you know. I was in the first ranks of these people who were moving, and none of the militia officers answered who gave the command to put "Berkut" and put the militia on the road to this demonstration. Then, when the matter was discussed on the committee, the Ministry of Internal Affairs couldn't name the name of the person who gave these illegal criminal teams, they said, "some kind of leadership," "some officials." We therefore need to invite the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the prosecutor to this Friday to explain clearly who gave such nonconstitutional commands to the public.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u220	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u221	In order to ensure that those who have suffered as a result of a conflict with the police as a result of the illegal acts of the militia are able to make appropriate references to the actions of those who have given the command to commit these crimes. I'm asking you to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u222	Yes, thank you. The committee did not discuss the matter, did not consider it. So let's sign up for the performance. Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u223	Thank you. I realize that the ordinary thing, since most people won't just vote anymore, is that they've already collected most of their cards to demonstrate how they feel about the right decision. But really, what's going on in Ukraine? Let's just analyze it. 20 years of independence, 20 years of independence. Representatives of the political forces represented in Parliament, the non-parliamentary political forces, in a constitutional way, report that they want to hold a ceremony before holding a rally. The route is being reconciled. This route was rearranged three times, finally reaching the common denominator. And how does today’s authority work? Underneath the fields, under the ice, we make a decision by an obedient court, some kind of "backstairs" there, putting the armed, that is, prepared to stop the opposition of the Berkut workers. So in advance, it motivates them to have some sort of nose-digged, you know, operational information. So it wasn't just the abuse of democracy, it was the anthem of Stalin and Hitler that happened to us all in front of us, in the eyes of tens of thousands of people who came here just to celebrate the Jubilee of 20 years of independence. So we understand very well that power deeply, convincedly, consistently hates both Ukraine and Ukrainian independence and Ukrainian statehood and democracy and opposition. You can't show it like that! You'd hide it in some way, you'd roll it out, I don't know, you'd let it go 300 meters, not 10 how you did it. Frankly, you're drawing an image not just of totalitarian power, but of foolish totalitarian authority. And I propose to support this determination, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u224	Vladimir Moses. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u225	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I sincerely thank Vladimir Moses for giving the opportunity to speak. I would like only now, in support of this decision, and I would like to ask those few people who are here to vote. And it's not whether we make the decision or not. And the important thing is that we will continue to celebrate the peaceful state holidays of Ukraine's Independence Day. Let's start with the fact that on Ukrainian Independence Day, the militias, who are in uniform, all dressed up every day. In Kiev, here, how could it be? They were preparing for the slaughter, that's what they were preparing for. They forgot about the existence of article 39 in the Constitution, which states that citizens have the right to meet peacefully, without weapons, and to hold meetings, rallyings, marches, and demonstrations. Early notices are given to executive authorities or local authorities. The assholes in court, the cops, they thought they were giving permission! And the Constitution says we're reporting, we're the Ukrainian people. The morons have earned the right to do so! Moreover, they used mucous gas and what were the consequences of how people felt. And the head was spinning, and other things, the kidneys were all starting to hurt.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u226	What else was going on?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u227	But that's interesting, that's interesting. Please don't help me, I know you'll help me, Adam Ivanovich. But what's really interesting about this is that there was a crime committed by the police, even though the police were to be guilty. And this police came up with the idea, they're calling National Deputy Carmazin, but...
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u228	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u229	Mogilov's right in the detention center to give a witness. And to do that, we have to have a follow-up commission that we made. For one thing, let them see why criminal cases are being investigated against themselves. It's an anecdotic situation at all. Because of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u230	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. You've lost more minutes. Thank you. Thank you. Question completed. Who called you? No one called you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u231	The Law Enforcement Committee did not consider the bill. Members may be, but there was no committee. Yes, Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u232	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, I do not know where the previous speaker served, but in due course I had to protect the southern borders of the great mighty Soviet Union. Because there's been a lot of security on all the border holidays. We didn't have holidays, we didn't put on parade uniforms, we were on the border day and night to protect the peaceful lives of Soviet citizens. Now for the second moment. I've been thinking about how similar situations are happening in the United States of America's global democracy citadel. I'm turning on the TV yesterday. A few hundred in 15 million New York innocent citizens who were in the tent, the police braved this tent town. What was the motivation? What, they threatened the peaceful lives of the New Yorkers? Nope. Motivation was one thing, I laughed at it, 200 people were uncomfortable, the key word was "trouble," and they were wiped out, and they said, "Put tents behind the New York district." Therefore, the main task of law enforcement in any country is to ensure the peaceful life of citizens. Therefore, there would be a reason for today's decision to consider if there were clashes in Kiev, fighting, children, old people, innocent people celebrating. And the police did everything they could to bring together the provocateurs and not provoke conflicts in Kiev, so that innocent people, children, old people, women would not shed their blood. I think that the five police have to give medals and medals to the militias, that they have done the main task, equal to the citadel of world democracy, America, yes. I therefore propose that this vote be suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-16-m0.u233	Yes, the discussion is over. I'm putting to the vote the proposal to adopt a decision on hearing the information of the Attorney General and other officials, sorry, I won't read it now, because not all of them are in office anymore. [[Registration number 9084]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[2:08:10]] For-50 Not supported. Overruled. Dear colleagues, we have fully implemented the agenda, scheduled for Wednesday, the opposition day. And I think we're all aware that the opposition was going to say what she was going to say, no one was limiting it. At this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, we declare it closed. At 3 p.m., or anyone who has ever appointed, a committee meeting and factions. The morning session is closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Good luck.
