ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:40]] They registered cards in the 365 national deputies’ session hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on 12 January. Twenty-one questions of the agenda have been considered, one law has been passed, one bill adopted on the basis, two bills have been converted to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, and 12 bills have been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question, namely: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On the Assembly for Compulsory State Pension Insurance" (to cancel the Assembly for mandatory state pension insurance from the sale of non-cash currency). I remind you that we've discussed this, we just need to make a decision. A number of doubts arose in the MP’s corps during the discussion. In this regard, honourable national deputies, you have been provided with help from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on this matter. I think you've had an opportunity to learn about this. Before voting, I ask each faction to express my position per minute. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u2	Vladimir Yavorowski. A committee of culture and spirituality. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Our committee is asking you, since at the end of January, if I am not mistaken, it seems that January 25 is filling the anniversary of the outstanding Ukrainian poet we all attended in school, Paul Tikina, to be included in today’s agenda. [[We'll split up on vacation.]] It's going to take a little time, a little bit of time, and it's going to take a little time to decide on the definition of his Jubilee. It's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u3	Thank you. Yes, please, Stanislaw Arzhevtin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! I wanted to remind you that this tax was introduced as temporary. And that's a tax, I'd like to remind you, not a banking system. It's for customers. So, first of all, it distorts the real exchange rate. Second, he's putting new hidden taxes on customers and, in fact, he's holding foreign investment flows to Ukraine. So, and given that this is not foreseen in the 2009 budget, 10th and 2011 budget, there is a request to support the National Bank's initiative, because it is aimed at the gradual and correct liberalisation of the currency market. Request to support the National Bank's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u5	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u6	I fully share the opinion of my colleague, Arjevitina, and at the same time I understand those colleagues who are opposed to voting for this law. Because at first glance, it seems that this law will harm the Pension Fund. But it's not a pension fund, it's a state budget. And unfortunately, giving a billion dollars to the public budget is a rule that takes four billion dollars out of the state budget. Therefore, if we are to add $3 billion to our pensions, we must vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u7	Yes. Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u8	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, the so-called temporaryity of this standard. We have nothing more permanent in Ukraine than temporary in the first place. Secondly, I remember very well the situation when this rule was introduced in. was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At that time, the situation in the Pension Fund’s budget was terrible. Even those low-income pensions that people received at the time were divided by 40 to 60 percent. In some regions, the retirement payout was 6-8 months and so on and so forth. Thus, the introduction of this standard, as well as the collection of car sales and the sale of gold products and precious metals, made it possible to solve this problem to a large extent. How we're going to make this decision today when last year the budget deficit of the Pension Fund was 26 billion. It's expected this year to be 17 billion, and we don't want to take down a billion dollars, real dollars, that would go to the full budget of the Pension Fund and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u9	Yes. Who else insists? None. Hell-bent on a rope. It was already a faction. Dear colleagues, I think you've all read the manual and seen where they've been heading, to the special fund. Dear colleagues, please. Help. I'll find out. Help was given to everyone during the registration yesterday. I ask you to watch carefully what you receive, the documents, and how you read them. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I put to the vote a proposal by the committee, i.e. a proposal by the government and the National Bank to adopt as a basis and as a whole the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Assembly for Compulsory State Pension Insurance. [[Registration number 7534]] Please vote. [[10:07:09]] For 248 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the proposal made by Vladimir Yavorowski, let us support this proposal. I'll have the document filed now. If you agree to this, we will include it in the agenda, and at the evening session we will make the right decision. Is there no objection? As for the celebration of the Jubilee from the day of the birth of Tichin, Paul Tichin. Dear colleagues, we are moving to a review of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7266]] Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject this law. The committee agreed with the proposals and arguments of the President of Ukraine. All documents are given to you. Is there a need to discuss this?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u10	I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine, which is supported by the Committee on the Aberration of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises. [[Registration number 7266]] Please vote. [[10:08:53]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! At the Conciliation Council, we discussed the need for parliamentary hearings on earth’s problems. A draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on the topic "Legislative regulation of the introduction of the agricultural destination market in Ukraine" is proposed for your opinion. [[March 2011]] True, we already have parliamentary hearings in March, March 16, on the topic “Contemporary state and current challenges to overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster”. I, if we're going to support you, we're going to need a date. Taking into account the relevance of this issue. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[10:10:12]] For 206 Decision taken. The reporter is Kaletnik Grigory Mikolaiovich. Both the initiator and the committee. So four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u11	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Ladies and gentlemen, listen to me. I want to give you a few notable dates that have something to do with this. On December 18, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ukraine's Land Reform Order, was adopted. It was in this act that land reform was an integral part of Ukraine’s economic reform, in connection with the transition of the state’s economy to market relations, its tasks, and the determined ways of carrying out this reform. The following year, January 30, will be 20 years old from the date of the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Forms of Ownership to Earth. Finally, October 25 of this year will be 10 years old from the date of the adoption of the current Ukrainian Code of Land. Thus, in the 1990s, land reform, which has been under way for 20 years, has been called upon to introduce market principles into land relations. Much has been done in carrying out land reform efforts, but it has not yet been completed and has not achieved its main objectives. Ukraine’s land code, which came into force on January 1, 2002, is generally a sufficiently balanced legislative basis for addressing problems in land relations. But it does not cover all the issues related to the functioning of the earth’s market, so we have already introduced more than 50 new acts of legislative initiative to the earth’s Codex. In the Final Positions of the Code, it was entrusted with the 6-month deadline for the publication and development of a number of legal and regulatory acts provided for in the Code. However, these important issues for the development of land relations, for the establishment of an agricultural destination market, remain unresolved until now, despite repeated declarations by previous presidents and governments and by Parliament itself, their urgency and urgency. All of those registered since 2003 and even approved by the Supreme Council in the draft laws on the State Land cadastre and the land market have not found a logical conclusion, responded, submitted for replacement in another edition, promised, and so forth. At the same time, since 1 January 2002, the extension of a moratorium on land sales has led to the deterrence of land market development and investment in agricultural production, the inability to form a real price on land of agricultural destination, the increase in inter-branch price distortions due to the failure to account for land prices at the cost of agricultural production, the violation of the citizens' constitutional right to freely manage their property, the increase in the volume of shadow land market and the accumulation of shadow capital, the risk of falling prices on land rising with each year of extended moratorium, the lack of funds to the state budget. World practice has shown that the solution to these problems is to turn the earth into a real object of economic circulation. In view of the Committee's presentation, it proposes to adopt a draft regulation as a whole as a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to hold parliamentary hearings on the subject of “Legislative settlement of the introduction of the agricultural destination market in Ukraine” on 16 March 2011. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u12	Thank you, sit down, please. Please sign up for the performance. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine" refers to the right to speak to Paul Zebrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, do you need land in a market instrument? Absolutely. But there is much that needs to be done. To this day, we have not accepted the Committee’s head, which I respect, nor have we developed the Earth cadastre, taken full volume, nor have we made many other questions. The first thing we talked about is the introduction of a transparent market, and we talked about this a hundred times at the stretcher. But I think that in the first parliamentary hearings the Committee and the Supreme Council should come up with a complete package just to solve these land issues. It is only after all that we have to raise questions about the transformation of the land of agriculture, to throw it completely into the market. Today, it is simply another release of a couple or the preparation of a social opinion on the basis that only the earth’s market will save Ukraine is not quite right. I think it's just a chat room that's hopeless. In large numbers, if the committee today were to prepare the entire package in parallel with this decree, there would be 30 of the legislative acts that would allow the market to be fully operational, then it would be subject to discussion. So today, unfortunately, it's just a simple release of a couple and a frenzy of society, including those who have a different point of view from that point of view. I think this is such a, this kind of parliamentary hearing, but only after the Supreme Council has prepared the whole package of necessary legislative acts in order for these parliamentary hearings to result in real things, not just a speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u14	Where? Are you sure? So I'm going to propose, and that's exactly what I want to talk about. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the National Party. Andrew School will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u15	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I think a lot of people in this room know that the real price today is a few tens of dollars in black land, that is. For a hundred. So if a hundred and ten meters today is someone trying to sell it through different mechanisms, they can sell it for 20 dollars. Think about what this is all about. If today, under the current legislative framework, and more specifically, there is a complete market for land, the land will be concentrated on the ground. And so the investment in this land is just going to be minimal, just minimal, and I want to emphasize it again. No one is saying that there should be no market for the earth. Obviously, it must be, but who is to redeem the earth? Apparently, the State Land Bank. At what price? Obviously, at the price of no less than a market. What else is going to happen? Well, your honor, you know, the land is going to be bought, and I'm going to say it again, for nothing, for nothing. Who is it going to be? I think famous people first. And secondly, it's going to be bought up by a foreigner, and it's also completely understandable because of the different mechanisms that are already working today. I therefore support the full holding of parliamentary hearings. People have to find out what's really going on with the land at this point in time, what are the projections of real, independent, if you can find them, well, I think you can, independent experts, what would be the price for a person if they wanted to sell their land? Do you think it's going to be a price compared to the price of the land? In Germany, Austria, where the lands are much worse in quality, serious decisions can be made. But the very fact that there are large-scale, professional, professional parliamentary hearings that I approve of.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u16	Andrew Schlell passes the right to speak to John Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, extremely painful, extremely resonant issue, is not just for Ukrainian society. Starving on the planet is no longer a unique phenomenon, but a given. The number of lands capable of growing food crops and producing food declines disastrously. Ten years later, there will be no one left on the African continent capable of processing the hectare — that is, a billion people. Growing population is also a factor. And another factor is that consumption increases where there is no consumption. This is Southeast Asia, where two thirds of the world's population live. So I'm not talking about the natural disasters that have covered the planet in recent decades. God is guarding Ukraine. So the only thing we have left is national wealth, the only thing left is land. I'll add one more to the warnings that were made in this room. Today, tens, hundreds of structures that are already renting tens and hundreds of thousands of hectares of land. According to the current world international legal practice and our domestic legislation, if Pandora's Lear of Privatisation is discovered, the first one in line is world practice and our practice is the first one to be leased. The right colleague who spoke before me, and who are the founders of these structures? Is that where the Ukrainian founders are? Under the Constitution, the land may be owned only by Ukrainians, representatives of the Ukrainian people. Unfortunately, when world practice and many ratified treaties in this Parliament put international legislation above national legislation, we will have to count on what we will adopt here. Therefore, the faction set out in this respect does not open Pandora’s box, and parliamentary hearings are premature in this regard. The right colleague who spoke from the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" we have at least 30 more bills to keep.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u18	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u19	We have, I say, at least 30 laws need to be passed in order to bring this subject to the hall. There is no legislative basis. What are we going to talk about?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u20	Thank you. Please, Catherine Samuel. Then there's Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! I point out to you that the question has become very narrow. You see, we're going to be looking at parliamentary hearings, not land relations in our country, not the problem of how to get out of this crisis that's been in existence for 20 years now, but it's clearly and clearly stated: putting in place a market for land, and it would be fairer to write down, opening gateways for selling land in our country. And that's why I also think that the question today is premature. This issue will be considered at the same time as the first question of the International Monetary Fund. Right colleagues, the only wealth left is the land. You want to take this away from people. I want all of us to read Olga Kobilian's Earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u22	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u23	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I want to ask a question and ask a question about the unconstitutionality of such a question. With all due respect to Gregory Kaletnik, I want to say that this is not a constitutional issue, and in such an editorial, Volodymyr Mikhailovich is honorable, he cannot vote. It was because John Kirilenko had already stated here that the earth and the Nadra were subjects of the property rights of the Ukrainian people. One. The other one. If we are to listen and conduct parliamentary readings, it should sound like: “Legislative land-relationship. The state of land protection and the promotion of agricultural production. Only in this context can we hold some parliamentary hearings. And I thank both Zarubinsky's colleagues and Samuelk's colleagues and Kirilenko, but I'm asking questions about the unconstitutionality of this decision and I'm taking a firm stand against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u24	Gregory Smythech, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u25	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I took one minute of time, and I want to stress my point of view again, and I want my colleagues to listen. We took one time, divided the entire country into a certain category of the population of Ukraine. This, in my view, violates the Constitution because all Ukrainian citizens are entitled to equal rights. But it's also dangerous that we've laid down this act when we've made a decision that we've distributed and the population that we're going to be. people, children born today, tomorrow, tomorrow and in the future, have no right and will not be able to benefit from the constitutional right of free or other form of land ownership. So I suggested that, as part of this debate today -- whether it's market relations or not on the ground -- we put in a national bank, we release a special money issue to this bank, and the state should be the main buyer of the land. Once it acquires its rights, it must provide for the next generation of abundances of this earth. And so we will preserve the land by the Ukrainian people in accordance with the Constitution of Articles 13 and 14, and we will not be able to privatize or.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u26	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking for your attention! Clearly, the problem has matured. This is primarily about identifying the situation in the field of land. That is why I propose, taking into account the speeches made by the people's deputies, and I ask you and the head of the committee to extend the topic of parliamentary hearings, not to raise the issue of market law, but to ask the question in such a plane, namely, "Country in Ukrainian fate: the situation in the land sphere, the legislative provision of land relations and the practice of its implementation." And to discuss issues in a broad sense, then to go out to land inventory in Ukraine, to figure out whose decisions the land was given, to return everything that was illegally obtained, then to assess the land, to create a bank operator, and to store the land, if the people who have the land pits want to sell it, in a state reserve, so that they can rebuild large-scale production and bring order in this area. Therefore, the proposal, if the committee head supports, is to hold parliamentary hearings on "Country in Ukrainian fate: the situation in the land area, the legislative provision of land relations and the practice of implementing it". To hold parliamentary hearings on March 2, 2011, on the very day that we work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and taking into account this decision. Well, please, come on, the performances are over. Taking this proposal into account, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on “A country in Ukrainian fate: the situation in the land sphere, the legislative provision of land relations and the practice of implementing it”. [[Registration number 7513]] Please vote. [[10:28:13]] For 240 I'll take the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, let's move on to chapter two. Bill No. 7035 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving land management in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is under consideration. The committee head is Kaletnik Grigory Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Since the first reading of the bill under consideration, 38 proposals and amendments by Ukrainian national deputies have been received, of which 32 have been edited and partially rejected. Of the 6 rejected proposals, three amendments of the national deputy Karmazin, 37 of the national deputy Bewzenka, were made to one article or part of it and excluded the position of the amendments. There are also three amendments to the Zabarsky People's Deputy: 15th, 16th and 30th. 32nd. The amended bill also takes into account the comments made by the national deputies during his first reading. I would like to point out that the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority has prepared a draft bill without notice, so the Committee suggests recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill on second reading and generally as a law if there is no objection to the authors of the rejected amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u29	Yes, dear fellows, we are going to consider the bill specifically for amendments. As you've heard, the vast majority of them are accounted for. Who among the authors of unaccounted for amendments insists on their stand? Please, Karmazin. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u30	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the committee for taking most of my amendments into account. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the need for some improvement in this bill, in my view, including in some definitions. And because of that, until the 19th amendment, Reverend Gregory Mikolaiovich, I made such proposals. Part three of article 123 reads: “The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the executive authority or the local self-government within the limits of their mandate during the monthly period examines the concerns and authorizes the development of a project by the land administration for the removal of land or provides a reasoned refusal to grant it.” That is the motivational rejection that people today do not receive from the authorities. Part of the sixth article of this article, I propose in such an editorial that “The Council of Ministers and other bodies within a two-week period from the date of receipt of the project.”
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u31	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u32	“and when it is necessary to carry out a mandatory state-level expertise on land-use documentation after a positive conclusion has been reached, it shall decide whether land is to be made available for use.” What I do these terms for is that there is no vacchanal that is today, when people are being chased all the time, and there is no clear term in them, and there is no clear obligation on the authorities to write reasons why they give, why they don't give. And look at the decisions that have been made. How many people write and show that they have been denied land, and the oligarchs or those present in our hall have been given land around here, including in Kiev. How? Somehow we got it, but we got it. So all of this has to be controlled and completely transparent, to have the same rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u33	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. But your amendment was discussed on the committee. And I've already said that we've had 38 amendments and proposals. And we balanced this whole bill, given what you just said, we're rebalancing all the other amendments and the whole bill. Your suggestions are taken into account, but they're not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u34	I'm putting Karmazin's 19th amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u35	Carmazine. No, no, now, luckily, he's right. [[10:33:47]] For-24
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u36	Not supported. Yeah, Carmazin, what are the other adjustments? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u37	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Thank you all for backing me up. Amendment 20. This is about making changes to part 11 of article 123 that I propose to make in such an editorial. Now I'm proposing, not just completely deleting something, I'm proposing my way out of the situation: that the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the executive or local government authorities may be accused of granting land to use or leaving trouble without consideration. According to the Constitution, all of our legal relations are subject to and distributed to the judiciary, and it has the right to speak on this matter. Because I don't understand why such an editorial didn't go to the committee, Reverend Gregory Mikhailovich. I just don't understand why they didn't accept it. I don't know what the argument was about here, it's absolutely constitutional. That's why I insist she be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u38	20 amendments shall be made to the vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u39	That's how it's supposed to be, butter. Yes, until the sixth amendment, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u40	[[10:35:19]] For the 10th. Wait, please don't be the chairman, there's someone to hold the meetings of the Supreme Council. You listen and react as the meetings are. Repeat, repeat, you'll be in session, then you'll be in charge. How's Carmazine doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u41	I did. Part's taken care of editorially. So, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, I agree, but this is about refusal or dedication or use or abandonment. That's why I wasn't fully understood, obviously. And what's in the Earth Code, it's a little bit out of the question. And right in the context of this law, I wanted to bring it to trial. As for the insistence that those amendments be the way I made them, I do not insist. I agree with the committee's editorial work, and thank him for his serious work on this issue. Well, a little bit later they'll fix it, I guess, later.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u42	Thank you, thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u43	All the corrections, right? Now someone insists on amendments that are included, but they need to be voted on. Please, Checht Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u44	Dear Adam Ivanovich, ask for confirmation of the 6th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u45	Please, the 6th amendment, it's counted. There is an insistence to place it on confirmation. I'd like to make my mark on the 6th amendment. [[10:37:08]] For-24 Not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u46	We're down.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u47	Please, some more. Zabarsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u48	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I ask you to take into account amendments 15, 16, 30 and 32 that are not taken into account by the committee or partly taken into account, exactly as I was offered. This is caused by the need to improve and organize land management systems, especially those with special status, a special land use regime in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the need for the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to be empowered to manage them. Therefore, I ask that the amendments noted be voted on in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u49	What adjustments? 15th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u50	Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u51	The 15th amendment is rejected, please, we'll go after each one. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u52	The 15th amendment is rejected and rejected by the 16th. This is about land, all the land within villages, villages, and cities. There was a discussion, if this is just going to be about your revisions going to be about recreational zones, then it could be solved in some way. But as it was prescribed for you, the committee rejected it. So if you have any other arguments so that we can get some other motivation and some other wording into the transcript right now, then we can vote on it, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u53	You've already made your case. I'll bet on it. He gave the paper, the committee turned it down. Puts to the vote 15 amendments, please specify. [[10:39:26]] For 225 Not supported. 16 Amendment, please, what is the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u54	16 The amendment, if it were edited to say that it only applied to the lands of the recreational zone, could be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! Think about what this is all about. If we support these amendments now, so the authorities of the local self-government are taking everything away from you, we're handing it all over to the Cabinet of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Then let's make one more decision after that, eliminate the local authorities in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, dot. All their powers to hand over the Cabinet of Ministers, then that's the right thing to do. I'm putting 16 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:40:38]] For 210 Not supported. Please, what was the next one?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u56	32nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u57	32 revisions. The 30th will.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u58	30 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u59	Let's do 30 corrections, Zabarski. What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u60	The committee’s view is expressed in a comparative table. We can only hear some other argument from the author of this amendment. If he has one, please, then the hall can be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u61	In principle, we've already voted on this, it's an identical amendment. At 15, the same thing was said that now at 30, but they insist, I'm putting it to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:41:41]] For 216 Not supported. And 32 amendments, partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u62	32 revisions included in part. Where authorization is given to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u63	Zabarsky, do you agree with this editorial or do you insist on your own? 32 revisions to your partial. Please, Zabarsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u64	Your Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, I ask you to support exactly what I have been offered, because it applies to land. Once again, I insist on a special land use regime, and in the same line that I'm asked to do, it's really going to do what's right for the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u65	Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u66	We've considered this amendment. But here again we're talking about land outside of populated areas, as well as the management of the land of aquatic historical and cultural forest-based health-recreational nature conservation and conservation. There was a discussion on the committee, and we considered it in part according to the author's explanation of the amendment, and I think this amendment could be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u67	Yes, dear fellows! Amendment 32 partially counted. The author insists on taking her fully into account. Again, the same problem. If we support this amendment, the whole law breaks. But the author insists. I'll put it to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:43:43:43]] For 197 Not supported. Yeah, any other authors? So the amendments that are taken into account don't insist on confirmation? Yes, Tuck, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u68	Roman Tchac. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I fully support what you've said after that, when we've voted on and including the 6 amendments, we really need to eliminate the local authorities in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Dear colleagues! Look what you've made up your mind! In order to privatize the land, the citizen now turns, not to the village, city council, but to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Crimea! Here's what we accepted when we canceled our amendment, Bebezenka and Taverka, sixth. I'm asking you very much if even now, if even now they will, even though I would insist on going back to the sixth amendment. And as the committee suggested, it should be counted. And if not, then, Adam Ivanovich, ask you. Then the law department would look very carefully. We've already balanced this bill. We looked at it on the committee, our head said three times there were very serious disputes. And it's already completely balanced. Today, when some of the amendments were supported, some were not supported, we balanced. We're losing our local self-government in the Republic of Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! Amendment 6, which is considered by the Committee, received only 24 votes. That's why she's not listed. I'm gonna say it again. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm gonna say it again. Not the other way around, but listen to what I'm saying. At Chechchev's request, I put the 6th amendment that the committee took into account to support it. The amendment, taken into account by the committee, has supported as many as 24 national deputies, which means that it is not supported and remains in the format of the first reading. Do you understand? [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't see any other way. Who's in charge of getting back to the 6th Amendment, please make up your mind. [[10:46:14]] For-32 We're not back. So 6 amendments remain in the first reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, dear colleagues, all the adjustments. 6 amendments are not supported and remain in the first reading. I am voting in general on the adoption of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving land management in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Please vote. [[10:47:05]] For-26 I didn't get any support. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's an offer to re-send the second reading. Please vote. [[10:47:30.]] For 243 The bill is being re-readed. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase liability for individual offences in housing and utilities. [[resecond reading]] First Deputy Chairman of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of the Law, Olijnik Volodymyr Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on increasing responsibility for individual offences in housing and utilities, which was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on 2 December 2010, was submitted for re-reading. [[Registration number 6005]] The bill seems extremely relevant because it proposes to supplement Ukraine's Criminal Code with a new article 270 with one “Intentional destruction or damage to residential property” and to amend article 153 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences with the aim of creating conditions under which citizens are more responsible for fulfilling the requirements of Ukraine's Criminal Code. [[natural and legal persons]] Such conditions are envisaged to create a way of penalizing citizens if they are harmed or destroyed by residential property that has caused or could have caused injury and loss to citizens. [[natural and legal persons]] The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill makes it appropriate to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work on the basis of comments and suggestions made. The Chief Legal Authority also believes that the bill needs to be thoroughly redrafted and re-readed. However, after careful consideration of the bill, the committee only partially shares their position. A total of 14 amendments were made to the bill, of which 12 were taken into account in full, in part or in an editorial manner; 2 were rejected: amendments Nos. 1 and 10. I would like to point out that the committee has reviewed this project several times, with which it has worked fruitfully both with the former Ministry of Housing and Utilities and with other interested ministries and departments. All of them either fully support the bill, or with minor remarks. The project has been legally vetted because it has undergone a thorough legal expertise and has been subject to a thorough evaluation by experts from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Board of Law and the National Academy of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. The critical comments received in this project were taken fully into account in its further work and preparation for second reading. So the committee believes that the bill can be adopted in a second reading and in general. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u71	Yes, dear fellows, we will consider. In doing so, I want to point out that the second reading stays the same, that there was no change, that there was, that there was no change, that there was no change. Please, Carmazin, 1 change.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin. I want to thank the committee for taking half the amendments into account. But I would like to point out that in the country, despite the harsh measures that are being proposed now, the production and damage of trees, shrubs, lawns, flowers, other objects of greenery, as well as the self - control of officials continues. That is why I propose to amend the second part of the first article 153: “to impose a fine on citizens from 100 to 200 untaxed minimum citizens, on workers up to 200, up to 300 untaxed minimums of citizens, officials, businesses, institutions and organizations regardless of the form of property between 300 and 350 non-taxable minimum rates of citizens”. This increases and increases the responsibility for the environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u73	Please have the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u74	This amendment was rejected by the committee. The Committee believes that a substantial increase in administrative fines will lead to an artificial blurring of administrative and criminal responsibility. This is the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u75	I'm voting on the first amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:53:03]] For-16 Not supported. Is there anyone else who insists on repairs? You don't? Yes, dear colleagues, if there isn't, then I'm voting on the adoption of the second reading and the whole Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase responsibility for individual offences in the housing and utilities sector. Please vote. [[10:53:53:53]] For 297 Thank you, the law has been passed. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of scientific parks. [[Registration number 6553]] Vice-Chairman of the committee, Davimuk Stepan Antonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! The bill, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was adopted in the first reading last November. The second reading included 13 proposals by law - abiding entities. Suggestions are correct and all taken into account. The changes have been made to refine the management of science park projects and provide State support for their implementation, and the arrangements for renting property in the implementation of scientific park projects and the report on the activities of the scientific park have been clarified. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who have a note of the amendments taken into account, because I understand that they are all taken into account? It doesn't, does it? There were observations by the Legal Authority. How did the committee react?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u78	As to the point made by the Legal Authority, which led to a serious discussion on the committee, this is a rather delicate matter. Legal administration relies on the Cabinet of Ministers’ decision to approve the appropriate rental accounting method. But there's a moment. Since a scientific park is being created on the basis of our national scientific organizations and the government should contribute to, in fact, the creation of parks, with the aim of State support for the implementation of scientific park projects, other rental rates should be set up to promote the determination and stability of the scientific parks and their protection, as some part of the scientific park is being built on a national structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u79	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u80	The committee has decided to approve Karmazin's proposal on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption as a whole of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the activities of scientific parks]] [[Registration number 6553]] Please vote. [[10:57:21]] For 109 The decision is not supported. Another reading. Please vote. [[10:57:44]] For 315 True, at that point, my dear colleagues, I remind you that this is a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. A draft law, number 7047, is under consideration, a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding military service. Gretchen Anatoly Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill is not complex, rather technological, and it regulates and harmonizes the military accounting system of the required and reserve forces of the Security Service in accordance with the Mobilization Act, the mobilization training of the Armed Forces of other military formations. Two amendments were made to the second reading. One count. The second is rejected because it suggests a change to the position that was removed on the first reading. The rule of law was unwarranted. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, one amendment of Kuzmuk is included, and the second amendment of Carmazin is rejected. It's not Carmazine, is it? Indeed, it is done without notice. We have every reason to adopt the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the exercise of military duty as a law. [[Registration number 7047]] Please vote. [[10:59:21]] For 305 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market in Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the order in which duplicates are issued and copies of licences]] [[Registration number 6551]] Head of the Finance Committee of Prasolov Igor Mikolayovich. Please. None. Who's from the committee? The Committee on Finance and Banking. Peanut. 6551 Bill. Arjevitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, this is, in fact, the technical bill proposed by the State regulator, a proper commission to bring into line with the laws that regulate the market for securities and, in fact, there was one proposal for licensing, cancellation of licences. These National Deputys of Wonderland, Karmazin, have proposed, and in a similar manner, to regulate this edition has been proposed by scientific and expert management. And, in fact, the committee took this proposal into account, and in fact, all three of the proposals that were proposed by the deputies and the scientific and scientific administrations included in paragraph nine. And so, in fact, the three revisions proposed for the second reading are also taken into account by the committee. So my suggestion is that this bill be passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, no one insists on the amendments that are taken into account, except for one: Carmazine, who is considered editorially?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u86	Here it's taken into account in an editorial way.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u87	Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u88	Request: Support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u89	At that time, I am voting on the adoption of the whole number 6551 law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the market in securities to Ukraine. [[on the order in which duplicates are issued and copies of licences]] Please vote. [[11:02:07]] For 264 Thank you. The law is passed. We're looking at the bill on technogenic safety, registration number 3438. Reported to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Calchenko Valéri Mihalovich. You don't? Who's the committee head? Also missing. Dear colleagues, the profile committee proposes to reject the bill that we passed on February 9, 2010, on our first reading. I'll bet the vote on the proposal. And the Chief Legal Authority also suggests that it should be thoroughly worked out and reinstated even the first reading. We've already finished our first reading. Then I'm voting on a motion to reject Bill 3438. Please vote. [[11:03:56]] For 308. The committee's proposal is supported. The bill was rejected. We're looking at a bill amending the Ukrainian Plant Protection Act. Registration number 4593. Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kaletnik Grigory Mikolayovich. There's no committee head. But here I noted that the text of the bill did not meet the requirements of article 116 of the Rules. That's why we're taking it off the table. Please make sure that the committee matches. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises is under consideration. Registration number 5449. Reported by the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u90	Good afternoon, Adam Ivanovich! People's deputies! You are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of Small State Enterprises. [[concerning the prohibition of the privatization of premises where libraries, bookstores and state publications are located]] This law was passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 17, 2010. The project proposes to establish that they cannot be objects of small privatization of buildings, buildings, buildings, or parts of libraries, bookstores, and public publishing facilities. The mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop and introduce a bill to amend the Ukrainian Laws on Libraries and Libraries, on Publishing, i.e. to bring them into line with the above-mentioned bill. [[concerning the prohibition of the privatization of premises where libraries, bookstores and publications are located]] Eight proposals were made by Ukrainian national deputies, namely, from Wondernova, Kruc, Carmazin, Bondar. All offers are included in whole or in part. The committee unanimously decided to adopt the bill in a second reading and in general. The Supreme Council's Legal Office in its comments to the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Laws on Libraries and Libraries and on Publishing. However, such proposals run counter to article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, according to which the committee has no right to amend the bill that was not adopted in the first reading. The committee also proposes that the project be commissioned by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop and make appropriate changes to the above-mentioned laws for consideration by the Supreme Council. Once again, the committee unanimously decided to support the bill in a second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Which of the authors insists?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u92	Press my button there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u93	Carthage is essentially accounted for here. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! This is the case where I agree with consideration. The question is that the legal authorities made their comments. But the committee came out of that position with honor when they wrote down the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to submit, develop a complex of these measures, and submit it for settlement. I think it's a good thing he's not breaking the Rules, the way. And I agree with that proposal, and I don't insist on voting it. I think it's a good law. And I want to thank the committee for this thorough, tolerant preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u95	Yes. The committee’s work received a high level of appreciation from Karmazin’s mouth. That's why I'm voting. The adoption as a whole of a law amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises. [[on the prohibition of the privatization of premises where libraries, bookstores and state publications are located]] Registration number 5449. [[11:08:41]] For-127 Not supported. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, BUT – Fatherland – 65, Our Ukraine – 27, Communists – 25, People's Party – 1, non-fractional – 8. There's a second offer. Please vote. [[11:09:16]] For 346 Decision taken. Returns to second reading. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on migration is under consideration. [[Registration number 2232]] Reports from the Committee of Gnatkevich Yuri Vasilovich. I can't see. Please, is the head of the Zarubinski Committee ready? 2232 Bill. Let's do it this way, dear colleagues, 2232. Let's see what the adjustments are here. Carmazine 3's off. Don't you insist? Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, if you don't mind, I'll give you three and four good reasons. Now, give me the opportunity not to take twice the word. Since a new edition of article 25 is being published, I felt that it should be numbered separately. And often amending laws will gradually correct any mistakes in norm-technologies that have occurred as a result of negligence in the preparation of these laws. In the 4th amendment to part one of article 25, I propose that the following should be made: “For foreigners and stateless persons, they can enter Ukraine with valid passports and only at border crossing points across Ukraine. In doing so, foreigners, persons who have dual citizenship and persons without citizenship must receive a visa in accordance with the law of Ukraine.” Otherwise, by law, a visa-free regime may be introduced for citizens of countries who do not grant such rights to Ukrainian citizens. For example, after former President Yushchenko issued a mass edict on the visa-free regime and more than just entered Ukraine without a visa fee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u97	Let me finish, it's two amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u98	Ukraine was forced to spend more than $60 million per year on Ukrainian taxpayers’ pockets to compensate for the under-receiving of the MSA, which foreigners had previously paid to Ukraine for their visa. At the same time, millions of Ukrainians began paying hundreds of millions of euros for visas to countries whose citizens were exempt from such visa payments. Statistics published in the Ukrainian weekly show the magnitude of the costs that are received annually only in the Polish Consulate in Lviv – 10-12 million euros. Since 2000, out of the two thousand visas issued daily, only 100 to 200 are issued directly to Ukrainians on average, others are made available to intermediaries, thanks to European officials who have carried out a permit in the EU Visa Code to legalise the issuance of visas in the general queue, who are able to raise the price of visa services five times. Therefore, I propose to take my amendment into account and ask all who are cowards for Ukraine to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u99	Yes, please, we discussed two amendments, friction and a fourth. Is it just a fourth? Then I put to the vote Karmazin's proposal for a fourth amendment. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u100	Please be supportive. [[11:12:55]] For-60
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u101	No correction supported. Yes, please, Fifth Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin. Unfortunately, Your Honor, we don't count billions. Today, we have thrown out a billion dollars in the budget and we have mourned those who exchange currency. There's already a billion in the budget. Now we're saying that the degrading situation for Ukrainians is normal. It's kind of normal. Let us respect ourselves and our citizens. And let us encourage the countries of others to whom we have given a visa-free regime so that they and our citizens respect. Paragraph 4 of part two of article 25, I propose that it be edited: “Unless he has submitted a passport document — a visa or other documents necessary for entry into Ukraine, in accordance with the law”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u103	Thus, the fifth amendment puts the vote to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:14:08]] For-44 Not supported. Please, the 12th Amendment of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin. In the 12th amendment, it's a purely technical amendment, which suggests in part thirty-second numbering and all, I'm not going to stop at it, Adam Ivanovich. I'd like to stop at Amendment 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u105	Yes. Please, 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u106	It's not technical. This is about drilling outside Ukraine. Article 32, paragraph 2, of the second sentence, should read as follows: ” if he committed an administrative offence.”, removing the words.” after the administrative compression has been effected.’ All foreigners and stateless persons should know that for any violation of Ukraine’s laws they will be expelled from Ukraine without the right of entry for a certain period of time — as they do abroad. I propose a civilized world practice of reciprocity and mirroring.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u107	There is a civilized practice of voting. 14th Amendment, please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u108	This amendment is, well, correct as always, but it's a bit of a violation of human rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u109	Yes, this is a very serious accusation against Karmazin. [[11:15:40]] For-30 Not supported. 17th Amendment. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u110	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national MPs, it really violates human rights when we commit crimes by foreigners and do not punish them, and then they don't leave for a few years, which is why we already have immigrant ghetto goals and we're already in the market. Somehow they don't go to work in the Chernobyl area or in the country or anywhere. The amendment refers to paragraph 4 of part two of article 32 suggesting that the following should be made: ” if a foreigner, a stateless person, has not arrived at a designated school or started working after arriving in Ukraine for training. He did not come to a designated place of employment for his work, and if the reasons for not coming to the place of study or work are not recognized by a respected competent authority authorized to decide on the discharge.” The thing is, they're sitting on foreign soil uncontrollably. We have to write down all the reasons when we forbid them to be here. Because of this, these are civilized standards that exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u111	Well, I want to explain that, well, Yuri Anatoliyovich has 3 amendments that require extra formalization, there's a separate set of, well, separate, emphasize these norms that he's proposing. In this case, it is about what he requires that this be recognized by the court so that the person does not arrive and violate, and we leave this right to the executive authorities, particularly the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u112	The 17th amendment shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u113	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u114	You Democrats, break it up with each other. [[11:17:42]] For-21 Your amendment is not supported. Yes, Gnatkevitch, the 18th Amendment does not insist. Yes. Karmazin, what's not counted? I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u115	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, well, first of all, was false, I'd like to respond, after amendment 17. See page 10. It says that if the reasons for not coming to the place of study or work are not recognized by a respected authority authorized to make decisions on drainage, not on the courts. So I would ask you not to falsify the text I provide. This is the first time. More of a respectable man like Gnatkevitch. As for 29 amendments that are rejected. Paragraph 2 of the first article 332, I suggest that we put it this way: ” is punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of 5 to 8 years with the confiscation of transport or other means of crime, as well as confiscation of property” by increasing the minimum penalty from 3 to 5 years and by removing the words “or without such” because the State should at least partially compensate for its costs of detecting and ending this crime. And it's about.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u116	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u117	Yuri Carmazin. I'm done. This is about making changes to article 332 of the Criminal Code, which is the illegal transfer of persons across the state border of Ukraine. Those who transport should know clearly that they will be deprived of both the means of transport and other items that help them commit crime. And this will be a preventive role to combat such illegal trafficking. I think that this increased responsibility is absolutely urgent for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u119	The committee supported the suggestion that such a measure of punishment would be too harsh. By the way, it's not just our position, it's the Law Department.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u120	29 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:20:24]] For-33 Not supported. All other amendments are included or partially counted. Thus, we have reason to vote on adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill under number 2232 amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on migration. Please vote. [[11:21:04]] For 289 The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending article 121 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. [[on guarantees and compensations in service missions]] [[Registration number 7183]] Deputy Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, with the aim of preparing for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 121 of the Committee’s Labour Code, a working group headed by the head of the committee was established. He also had to report a comparative chart, unfortunately he was ill. This working group was processed and introduced into the proposed project by the Ukrainian National Deputies. A total of 6 suggestions were made. Most of them are counted, two are rejected. It's important. The first edition of the draft Ukrainian Law was supplemented by a position, which was introduced by the head of the Vladimir Maruschenko subcommittee on the preservation of employees assigned to the service, the average wage during all working days on a schedule set by the place of permanent work. The committee proposes that the draft law be adopted in a second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u122	What is the view of the Committee on the Conclusion of the General Legal Administration, which considers this law to be contrary to article 22 of the Constitution? And article 22 of the Constitution states that the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, as enshrined in this Constitution, are not exhaustive. Constitutional rights and freedoms are guaranteed and cannot be repealed when new laws are enacted or amended, and the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms cannot be narrowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u123	The point is that this comment was made to the first reading. I didn't just happen to mention that the head of the subcommittee, Volodymyr Marouschenko, was amended, she's here in the comparative table. Where it comes from saving employees who are assigned to the shipping service, the average wage for all working days on a schedule set by a place of constant work. The committee therefore decided to recommend the adoption of the law in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u124	Yes, Pavlovsky, your amendment is partially taken into account. First, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u125	Dear National Deputies! Nevertheless, the law, this article, does not make it clear that all shipping will be paid to the employee. The question of payment for the day of departure and arrival remains. For example, if you leave on a Sunday, not a workday, you do not get paid to leave on Sunday. So we're making the social position of the employee worse, I'm counting on it. Therefore, I urge you to consider my amendment, which clearly states: including the days of departure and the arrival of the hired worker. Please support my full amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u126	Dear colleagues. Well, the committee's been discussing this for a long time. And we kind of got to a common point of view. If a person were to leave on Sundays, if he had worked in a factory on Sundays, he would have been paid a week’s wages if he worked according to the weekly work schedule. Right. That's why the law says.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u127	I'm putting the first amendment to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:25:19]] For 115 Not supported. Who else insists? And yours is the amendment, Carmazin? Part 3 is included. Please, the microphone. Or 6, which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u128	My amendment 6, reverend Adam Ivanovich. She's talking about taking effect of the law, and I'm proposing to introduce it since January 1, 2012, not as it is now, since publication, that's the first time. And secondly, Comrade Dry, an extremely experienced, experienced parliamentarian, and he understands very well that such an editorial, which is now, this article, is really narrowing down the rights that people are supposed to have. Because if he leaves on Sunday, Mr. Jaroslav, he spends his day. And on Sunday at the company that you set an example, you would pay him double salary, and we wouldn't even pay him an average for it if it wasn't on the schedule. Because of this, this graph supplement is not good. Paul’s correction, unfortunately rejected, is good. Then perhaps let us take Paul’s correction into account together, and then all questions will be answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u129	Dear colleagues. Let us not confuse the wages and the days that a person leaves on a trip: both on Saturdays and on Sundays, and on holidays, and in all days he gets the time in the size that is foreseen by the legislation in force. With regard to the 6 amendments that the distinguished colleague Yuri Karamzin insists on, the same General Legal Office, the findings of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the Committee on Budget Affairs note that the implementation of the bill does not result in an increase in the expenditure or loss of the budget. So we came to the conclusion that the law could take effect from the day it was published. Please put the sixth amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u130	The 6th is on the vote. [[11:27:43]] For-56 Not supported. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 121 of the Code of Acts on the work of Ukraine on guarantees of compensation on mission. [[Registration number 7183]] [[11:28:14]] For 219 Not accepted. There is a proposal to resend the second and must take into account the legal authorities ’ observations regarding article 22 of the Constitution. Please vote. [[11:28:42]] For 255 The law is directed at rereading the second reading. Honorary colleagues, drafters of the bill and the committee request that the draft Bill No. 4314 be transposed to amend article 1 of the Ukrainian Mining Act. [[on the extension of the Law also to coal miners and wasteland]] Please support the proposal to move the matter forward. Please vote. [[11:29:27]] For 259. Supported proposal for a transfer of the question. We should now consider Bill No. 4528, the draft Act supplementing the Ukrainian Land Protection Act on the issuance and cancellation of special permits for the removal and transfer of land cover. But the text of the bill does not meet the requirements of article 116 of the Rules, so please, Grigory Mikolaiovich, please bring it up to date, and we will consider it. Yeah. No, no, let the committee take a look. I remind you once again of what this is all about, dear colleagues, especially for journalists, because not once is there a lot of speculation about this. Once again, article 116 of the Rules requires that, in the second draft of the bill, for the second reading, proposals and amendments should only be made to those articles that were adopted in the first reading. If someone wants to make other changes, this violates article 116, it is necessary to adopt a new law on making changes. So please, what does not apply, as it were, to what we did not receive in the first reading should not be. So, please, are you ready to do this now? Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich, thank you for your word. I was about to begin not with amendments, namely the execution of the mandate, the protocol mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the observations of the Chief Legal Authority on the part of bringing this bill to the requirements of article 116. We did that on the committee, so this bill, in the form in which it now represents its committee for consideration in the second reading, is prepared exactly in accordance with the requirements of this 116 article of the Rules. Can I talk to you for a second? We returned exactly all the standards that were, and we considered only the proposals that were made within the limits of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u132	Okay. Thank you, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u133	Thank you. Then let me report the bill. Your opinion is proposed as a comparative table to the draft Ukrainian Law on Complementing Ukraine's Land Protection Act on the issuance and cancellation of special permits for the removal and transfer of land cover, prepared by the committee for second reading. [[Registration number 4528]] As the table we gave out shows, since the adoption of March 4, 2010, the bill has received four proposals from national deputies, of which two amendments have been taken into account and two have been rejected. Of the one rejected amendment No. 2 of the People’s Republic of Carmazin regarding the numbering of all parts of the project and the amendment No. 3 of the People’s Deputies of the Palica, which is proposed for exclusion and for the construction of oil and gas wells and manufacturing facilities necessary for their exploitation, for the removal and transfer of the fertile layer of soil without such special permission, the Committee considers that the principle of equality of the rights of all subjects of tenure before the law will be violated. In view of this, if the legislators, the authors of the amendments, do not insist on supporting their amendments in the hall, he would recommend the decision of the Supreme Council committee to adopt the bill on second reading and as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u134	Thank you. Carmazine, please. Another repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u135	Yuri Carmazin. Let me make the fourth major amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u136	And the 4th count.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u137	No, no, it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u138	No, I'm sorry. We probably have different texts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u139	4th Amendment, Yuri Anatoliyovich, your account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u140	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u141	If. Focus your attention on the 2nd, we've turned it down. If you don't have a claim until 2:00, then it's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u142	4th count. Yeah, yeah, they counted 4th. Maybe. Yuri Anatoliyovich, maybe because there's actually a second replacement reading here, so they're based on the 116th article, so maybe we have other texts. Please, Karmazin. Number two.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u143	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the principle was the fourth amendment, as you understand. This was the central authority of the executive branch of land affairs rather than the State Department. Since the second reading has been taken into account, my proposals have failed. The only thing we need to do for standardizing techniques is continue to number all the individual parts of the text. And what we're saying today is that we didn't have anything numbered before, well, it's not, Gregory Mikhailovich, and the motivation that should be in smart people, who didn't wear clothes before, we didn't wear tie, and now we're wearing clothes. You know, that's not the motivation that's needed. I think it's ahead. But that doesn't change or invalidate the law. Thank you for supporting my offer. And you see, it's colliding with the Law Department, look, it's on its own. So I think the law can be passed in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u144	Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. And consider me Mikolaiovich, not Mikhailovich, just in case, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u145	Let's take into account that you don't want to make proposals. I am voting: on the adoption as a whole of the bill number 4528: on the completion of the Ukrainian Land Protection Act. [[concerning the issue and cancellation of special permits for land cover removal and transport]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:35:49]] For-73 For the second reading again. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:36:13]] For 285 Decision taken. Returns to second reading. We are to consider draft Law 6379, but the text of the bill does not meet the requirements of article 116. Please, the committee wrote that it wants to spit on 116 articles, but that is the committee’s opinion. Please prepare to meet the requirements of the Rules. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. We are in a bad way because we are already half a year or so to consider: 7321 and 2763, again, taking into account the situation, the text of the bill does not meet the requirements of article 116 of the Rules. Please, Chewchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u146	My colleague, yes, it's a very long time ago, we've discussed it in the hall more than once, and you know that last time we came back from Adam Ivanovich's initiative, we went back to discussing these two bills. We also communicated with the Chief Legal Authority. I just want to say on behalf of the negotiating group that worked on these two bills, and the representatives came in. The representatives of the various political forces, the parliamentary committee, the President's Administration, public organizations, journalistic organizations, that we are still calling on the Supreme Council to consider both bills. They're done, they don't have any unagreed dots, no comas, no unagreed word. These two bills are quite ready to become laws. So, Adam Ivanovich, I would like to make a proposal that we now put to the vote the question that we should consider Bill 7321 and then the bill 2763 here in the hall and look at them essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u147	I thank the head of the committee. But you did not give an answer to the main comment regarding article 116. Bondarenko, please, Helen. Olena Bondarenko, not Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, I am asking you to support our initiative. Adam Ivanovich, I repeat your attention, of course, that all the amendments have changed the text. Why? Because the two bills did not agree on each other, and we were faced with the task of agreeing on those instruments, to remove those norms from two instruments that conflicted with each other. [[Applause]] We have brought two laws to perfection. I ask you very much, let us vote on these bills. You want it together, you want it separately for each amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, you don't have to make politics where you can't do it or try to do it. Dear fellow journalists, you can hang slogans in your papers. You come to the workplace, not with slogans, but with microphones, pens. And crying here won't do anything. The Supreme Council knows what to do without you. Dear colleagues, once again, no one gets the word, hands down. I understand your desire to shine in front of the cameras right now. We will do as the Rules require. Once again, given that there are so many speculations here, I turn to the Supreme Council: who is it that, contrary to the 116th article of the Rules, considers Bill 7321? [[11:40:13]] For 377 Decision taken. But once again, it is the will of the Supreme Council to violate the Law on Rules. Yes, please, Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, we have a difficult task with you. At the time of consideration of this document, we have more than 50 amendments with you. I have a proposal to trust a working group of more than 20 people. It was represented by representatives of the BUT faction, representatives of the Party of the Regions, including lawyers from both factions and the President's Administration. The President's administration was represented by Yuri Miroshnichenko himself, and the group was composed of people from the third sector and journalists. I would like to express my great thanks to all for having dedicated the month of their lives to working on these documents. And I have a proposal to save time for all 55 amendments to vote, in general, on the text proposed by the working group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u151	Yes, dear fellows, we will follow through on the amendments. Who among the unaccounted for amendments insists on their vote? Please come in. There aren't any? Now, one more moment. Perhaps one of the national deputies has noted the amendments that have been taken into account. It doesn't, does it? Then I am voting on the adoption as a whole as bill number 7321 – the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[providing access to public information]] Please vote. [[11:42:33]] For 412 The law is passed. The factions are pretty clear. The factions, please. Region Party 175, Fatherland - 110, Our Ukraine - 49, Communists - 25, People's Party - 20, non-fractional - 33. A draft Law on Access to Public Information is under consideration. Registration number 2763. Chewchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u152	Colleagues, I want to welcome us with the fact that Parliament at such times becomes what it really should be. Because our main mission is to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens. I think that, you know, there are historical days in the life of any legislative body. And this is certainly a historic day that will bring us closer to changing the philosophy of an official by these two laws. During the 20th year of independence, we remain a country where there is an impenetrable wall between the official and the citizen, where the authorities are cut off from the citizens by the graffiti and the whole secretive, the unapproachable secretaries or the guards, or the dark windows of cars. I think that the law that we're looking at right now is helping to break down this wall, which is between an official and a citizen. Basically. You're looking at a draft Act on Access to Public Information. Today, Ukraine has a chance to become one of 80 countries in the world where public information laws are in force. The working group that worked on both drafts established the following philosophy. First. And the information that the official owns, the apiorium should be open to all citizens, except for clearly defined exceptions, namely: first, when it's classified information, and we know that there is a public secret, a bank secret and other types of classified information; second, it's confidential information; and third, it's official information, that is, information that is in the official's decision-making process. Second position. We included that all the information about the budget, about the use of the budget, should be as open to all citizens as possible. This has a colossal anti-corruption effect. Third. We also came from the fact that information about a public person, about politics, about a high-level civil servant, should be as open as possible. We believe that the text of the law, which is now before us, will significantly extend the rights of citizens -- and let me draw attention to an important point -- there is no "journalist" in the law, it is the dissemination of rights, additional rights and guarantees to all Ukrainian citizens. In order to save time, I will ask the Supreme Council to follow the pattern that we have just applied in the consideration of Bill 7321. Before you do a negotiating group, I would suggest that the Supreme Council rely on the outcome of the negotiating group's work and vote in favour of the second-reading bill and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! Let's look at the table, all the proposals, and this is basically the proposal of one single author, the more faithful Miroshnitzka and Shevchenka, are included. Who insists on confirming those suggestions that have been taken into account? You don't? Then I'm voting on the adoption of the whole law number 2763. Draft Law on Access to Public Information. Please vote. [[11:46:37]] For 408 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on improving the State registration mechanism for the cessation of shareholders is under consideration. But the bill does not meet the requirements of article 116 of the Rules. So please, I'm asking the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy to address this issue. We're moving. The truth here is a letter from the committee on the transposition of Bill 3433 on Lombards and Lombard Activities. Including the text of the bill does not meet the requirements of article 116 of the Rules. I propose to support the committee's proposal to transpose Bill 3433. Please vote. [[11:47:54]] For 257 The question has been moved. Once again, I invite the Committee on Finance and Banking to consider article 116 of the Rules. 7418. Draft Law on the regulation of urban activities. [[on the reduction of permit procedures in construction]] But the chart hasn't arrived yet. Then let's do it this way, as the table approaches, if it is, let's look at it at the evening session. Bill No. 7525 of the Act amending the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. [[on the characteristics of the State registration of central executive authorities]] Please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u154	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Adam Ivanovich, the committee considered the bill in a second reading. Three amendments were made, all taken into account. Request to support the bill as a whole. Thank you. Yeah, right now. All right, sound it. Yes, dear fellows, it's all taken into account here. There's Karmazin's offer. Please. One minute, please. One minute. Yes, Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u155	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich! You took serious bills today just because the 116th Rules were broken. I emphasize that on January 11th, 10 a.m., this law is laid down. On January 11, 252 votes in favour. Today, January 13th. I'll give you my five amendments registered. Where's the chart? It's only been two days! I refer to the majority who have usurped power today, if you are a member of the Rules of Procedure Act, if you are pushing the right of a national MP even to make an amendment to the table, what is it called? Then you must be by law. All of them, then. Pshonka is to come after you and after each of you, and take away every one of you, for this is the Law of the Rules, for this is a constitutional law. As a result, I insist that we either postpone and give.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u156	Yes, let's do wiser. I'll give you the opportunity to argue your proposals, please. First offer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u157	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich! This is no wiser offer. Although I'll give you an offer. But I told you it's still breaking the Rules. My offer is not made and people cannot read it today. I propose the name of article 24 prism. “The specificities of the state registration of the establishment, reorganization and liquidation of the public authority, the local self-government body”. Since relations in the field of government registration, public authorities, and local self - government bodies need to be regulated in a comprehensive manner. This is the first time. This is the text of the proposal. And secondly, honourable national MPs, how can I make a suggestion if it's not considered by the committee. You know we have the right to make changes over time. Amend for 14 days. The Supreme Council has to reduce the term by half, or 7 days, according to the law. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you do not know this norm of the Rules, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, Yuri Anatolyevich, as always right, we will now vote on his proposal. The point is that proposals are made to add more local self - government bodies to the central, executive bodies. But once again, I'm paying attention to the MPs who are yelling in the hall. Don't make a sound. The point is that the honourable colleagues we have embarked on reform have reformed and we cannot register the newly created organs of the central executive branch. And if we keep pulling that, we won't be beautified. I’m putting Karmazin’s amendment to add words to the article. ” the oran of local self-government.” I'd like to make a statement. [[11:52:59]] For the 18th. Not supported. Please, 2 revisions. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u159	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the honourable head of the regulatory committee, Mr. MacKeenko, I appeal to you, your duty to intervene now, and to say that the bill should be withdrawn. Because there is a brutal violation of the law, which means the Constitution. My 2nd amendment referred to the part of the first article, where I suggest that it read: ” State registration, formation, reorganization or liquidation of the public authority” is a coma, Adam Ivanovich, because you say that only local self-government is what I say. The local self-government body is carried out through the submission of information about the government authority, the local self-government body as a legal person to the Single State Register for submission of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and its territorial bodies.” The only basis for such a national registration should be the appropriate decision of the competent authority. But, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, I insist on keeping the Law of the Rules. Surrender yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u160	It puts Karmazin's 2th amendment on the vote he made. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:54:31]] For 20 Please, 3 revisions. Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u161	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I've turned to the board of directors. She won't say a word. Instead, I see the presence of the first deputy chairman of the committee of Sasa. I demand him to evaluate this situation, which is now taking place in the voting room and in the order of the day of this law. Dear Adam Ivanovich, Sass is engaged in idle activities. Let him say it now, let him say it, and I say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u162	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues, do not turn the meeting into something unnecessary. That's the first one. Second, there is the head of the committee. There will be no head, then the first deputy will have the opportunity to speak. It's the right thing to do. Okay, let's do this. After making your decision, I'll give you my word for it. Vote 3 of Karmazin's amendment. I'd like to make a statement. Get ready for 4th. [[11:55:47]] For the 10th. I, my esteemed colleagues, continue for 15 minutes to complete this matter. 4 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u163	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have addressed all of you to the regulatory committee for the protection of the constitutional rights of any national MP, not just my own. I'm talking about a brutal violation of the Rules. Part three, in article 24, p. I have proposed that in such an edition “The procedure for the submission of information to the Single State Register on the state registration, formation, reorganization or liquidation of the public authority, the local self-government body and the report thereof to the statistical authorities, the State Tax Service, the Pension Fund for the introduction of such an entry shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”. This order is not to be determined by law, since it is the authority of the government of Ukraine. And if the head of the central executive authority does not submit to the state registry for a state registration, a full registration card for the conduct of a state registration of a legal person and a certified copy of the President's act of appointing the head of the central executive authority, the state registrar will simply receive a certified presidential decree and execute it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u164	4 amendments to the vote shall be made. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:57:23]] For-45 And the fifth last amendment. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u165	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I remind you that we are considering Law 7525 with a brutal violation of the law, when on the third day after the vote in the first reading, which took place only 11 numbers, on the second day, you held a committee of 12, which you witnessed in this so-called table. I'm talking to the majority, stop usurping power in the state, stop it! Return power to the Ukrainian people through its representatives! 5 revisions. Part four of article 24 p.m. I'd like to put it this way. A public registration is not being carried out by the registration congregation. Why submit to the State Register a document that shows the introduction of a registration assembly for the conduct of a national registration of a legal person if the State does not simply need to take a registration meeting for the registration of such a body? What are we going to spend this for?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u166	The 5th amendment of colleague Karmazin is to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:58:54]] For-66 The offer is not supported. So we've been through all the repairs. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as bill under number 7525 amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. [[on the characteristics of the State registration of central executive authorities]] Please vote. [[11:59:34]] For 249 Thank you. The law is passed. Please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u167	Thank you. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Street. Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! You're absolutely right to refer to regulations. We have, unfortunately, forgotten in Parliament today that the legislative procedure in Parliament is sacred. And it allows the People's Deputy to make amendments after the first reading of the bill within 14 days, which should be considered by the Committee. If the Supreme Council has not made a decision to shorten the deadlines, it has not decided to cut the deadlines, so it should be given to allow the national MPs to make such amendments. Material for second reading is distributed to national deputies in 10 days. Adam Ivanovich, a formal rule as a law, does not take into account what you are there when you enter. You obey the law and do not break it! Because in the end it will come back against you. Not always methods, methods justify tools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Before we announce a break, we need to accept the proposals for the inclusion in the order of the day of those proposals that occurred this morning. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 7550, marking the 120th anniversary of Paul Tichina's birth. Please vote. The bill is ready to be considered. We're voting for inclusion. [[12:01:28]] For 316 It's on. The factions, please. 174 – regions, BUT – 57, Our Ukraine – 15, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 20. I would like to point out that this was a proposal from Yavorowski. Yes, please, then the committee says they're ready. [[B in m in s a l in]] At the evening meeting, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, at the evening meeting, please be prepared to report to us. And we need to get into the agenda, the committee proposes, and it's ready to submit to us today a bill at the evening meeting number 7557, namely, to amend the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Vote. [[12:02:42]] For 244 The authors of the bill: Martinenko, Korge, Gluschenko, whom I ask, I turn to Martinenko, head of the committee, so that they can report for 16 hours. Dear colleagues. There's a break in 12 hours, 32 minutes, because we've been going on for 15 minutes. After the break, we will begin consideration of the sit down and the appointment and release of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come into the session room, we'll continue our sessions. Traditionally, we have issues related to judicial matters. And now we're going to have to consider making an oath to the members of the High Council of Justice. In accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles 5 and 9 of the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice, on 22 December 2010, the President of Ukraine issued a decree on the appointment of the head of the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters by Fesenko Leonid Ivanovich, a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. In accordance with article 131 of the Ukrainian Constitution and articles 10 and 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Higher Council of Justice, on 23 December 2010, the All-Ukrainian Conference of Prosecutors by secret ballot appointed the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Father Viktor Ivanovich, and the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Gabriel Ivanovich, as members of the Supreme Council of Justice. According to article 17 of the Law of Ukraine on the Higher Council of Justice, part of the first article of article 217 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules prior to taking office as a member of the High Council of Justice is sworn in at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Leonid Ivanovich Fesenko is invited to make an oath to the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u170	It's an oath. I, Fesenko Leonid Ivanovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Member of the High Council of Justice, Fiesenko. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u171	Thank you. [[Applause]] Let us, fellow believers, welcome our colleague Leonid Ivanovich, who served faithfully and conscientiously in the Supreme Council. And we hope that he will also work honestly and conscientiously in the office of the head of the court and of the High Council of Justice. I invite you to take the oath of Victor Ivanovich Father. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u172	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! I, Father's Viktor Ivanovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u173	Thank you. Let's welcome Victor Ivanovich, dear fellows. Victor Ivanovich, give me the text of the oath. Victor Ivanovich, give me the text of the oath. Yes, I'm irrigated before I take the oath of a member of the High Council of Justice of Michael Ivanovich Gabrieluk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u174	Good day to you! It's an oath. I, Gabrieluk Mikhailo Ivanovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u175	Thank you. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Yes, dear fellows, we have sworn in members of the High Council of Justice. Please note that they are all Ivanovich. Let's hope it's all right, as they say. Let us now consider the question of the election and release of judges. Reported by the Head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Samsin Igor Leonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u176	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! First of all, allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, to welcome you with the New Year, to wish you good health and productive work. [[Applause]] According to article 76, part 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of that Act, as well as a review of the application of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government authorities for the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who came to the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine as a state of status at the time of the commission's consideration of recommending them to serve as judges on an indefinite basis. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, I introduce the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decision to recommend candidates for appointment on an indefinite basis. The following draft regulations are proposed for your consideration. Draft Decree on the Election of Judges No. 7555. Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Saranyuk Vasil Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Oneshchenko Tetjanu Sergiyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Hapanchuk Viktor Vasilovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Timchenko Olen Alexandrovna; The Marganite City Court of Dnipropetrov, Homchenko Svetlan Ivanovna; Nicolel City Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Ribakov Valerija Vitaliyevna; Grandmother of the District Court of Dnipropetrovska Eliseu Tetian Yuryev; Dnipropetrovsk district of Kozak Andrija Volodymyrovich, District District District District of Kryvogo Horn; The Yellow District Court of Mariupol of the Donetsk Region of Bishova Maksim Viktorovich; Ivano-Frankiv City Court of Ivano-Frankiv District of Barashkov Volodymira Valentinović; The Supreme District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Greschuk Roman Petrovich; The Company's District Court of Kirovograd, Bregey Roman Ivanovich; The Yelanek District Court of the Mikolai District of Patrick Yuriy Yuriovich; The Balakli District Court of the Kharkiv District of Strygunek Volodymyr Mikolaiovich; The First-Major District Court of the Kharkiv District of Wasyanovich Hennady Mikolaiovich; The Suvorov district court of Herson Bočko Yulia Ivanovna Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u177	Thank you, Igor Leonovich. Yes, Your Honor, we're considering the draft of Decree 7555. You've heard the proposals of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges. I didn't see any comments from the people's deputies to the candidates. That is why we have reason to put to the vote Order 7555 on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis. Please be supportive. [[12:41:14]] For 235 Decision taken. So, uh, do the 7555-1 project, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u178	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine dignitaries Galina Crisostanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Derkac Natalija Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Agyev Alexander Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of Kiev Black Tutor Valery Ivanovich; Zitomir's Administrative Court of Appeal, Rudjan Ludmila Olegovna; Zitomir's Administrative Court of Appeal Pasicnik Svetlana Sergiyevna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Tverdhlib, Valentin Andriyevna; Kharkiv's Court of Appeal, Plakhov Aleksija Viktorovich; The Royal District Court of Žitomir Aksionova Valerija Yegorovich; The Economic Court of the Zaporozhye district of Kolodiy Natalija Anatoliyevna; The court-martial of Kyiv Zelenina Natalija Ivanovna, Skurdova Ludmila Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u179	Thank you. There are also no comments on the candidates offered to the national deputies. I am voting on the adoption of Order 7555-1 on the election of the judges on an indefinite basis as set out in this Order. Please vote. [[12:42:59]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome the newly appointed judges on short notice. [[Applause]] It is quite symbolic that before the New Year’s Eve they passed through the Supreme Council without any notice. We wish that in their future work there would also be no comments and complaints from those subjects whom they would consider. Now we're talking about getting the judges released. I invite the head of the Justice Council of Kolesnik Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u180	Good day, Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with the sixth part of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 106, 111 of the Law of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Justice, Article 31 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, the Supreme Council of Justice proposes, in connection with the acquisition of power by acquittals: The Provincial Court of Kyrovograd, Zaik Mikola Ivanovich; and the judge of the Dniprov district court of Herson Romanov Marina Yuriovna. The indictments came into force legally. Zayka Mikola Ivanovich was accused of committing a crime, provided for in articles 375, 366, 364, which is a judgment of a judge who is notoriously unjust. As for the judge of Romanov Marina Juryivna, she's convicted of committing a crime under article 368, for committing a crime, that's getting bribes. The High Council of Justice at its meeting considered the decision to submit to the Supreme Council. And please support the decision of the High Council of Justice, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u181	Thank you. No questions to the reporter? None. Then, dear fellows, there will be no denying that I will put in the whole determination, here are two names? Is each one separate? All of it? Okay. Then I put to the vote bill number 7556, the Order on the release of judges in connection with the taking of power by arraignment. Please vote. [[12:45:45.]] For 248 Thank you, the decision is made. Yes, dear colleagues, we continue to consider the order of the day, the rereading of the first reading. Bill number 5108 is under consideration, draft Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. Reported by the chairman of the Committee, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u182	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Our committee voted unanimously in favour of this bill. In fact, it's not about pension insurance, if you want, it's about morality and responsibility. I already know the coalition won't support him. I'd like to make a mistake. Maybe Mikhail Chechatov will come out and change his mind. What's the point? Most, I'm sorry, it's not a coalition. What's the point? I'm talking to our boys, the soldiers who are now in Côte d'Ivoire, where most of them have been sent, and they're risking their lives in Liberia, which is now in Iraq, Afghanistan, those fighters in the special divisions of Berkut, Alpha, others, the border guards, the militias who are throwing at the knife and at the shots that are risking their lives. So just so you know, if this bill is not supported today, no one is interested in your life. Because according to the current legislation that I propose to amend and the committee supports this, if your wife dies, your wife will receive a pension of 30 percent, up to 40 percent of the money. This is when the wife of a deceased civil servant receives a pension of 70 percent. No one can explain it within moral boundaries. Don't support this bill to level the conditions at least, or even better, to create more protection for people who are at risk of life. This cannot be explained why such a law cannot be adopted. The cost of the law, according to Minfin, is 21 million dollars. It's in the background of the tens of billions that gave Firthash, Liveli 3 billion, and so on. Can't Minfin find 21 billion? Then honestly tell us that the fighters of the Department of State Protection, which protects Yanukovich, Azarova, Lithuania, are not needed by anyone. No one needs berkuts, no alphas, no other structures and people in pursuit. I suggest you change your position after all. And I'm talking to Mikhail Chechtov, finally take responsibility, first of all, support this law. It is not possible for the wives of dead military personnel to continue to receive a pension of 30 to 40 percent when the official, if he dies or dies in the workplace, can receive much more protection from a large bribe. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I think Chechchev also has a voice, he can turn around and say without it. Now. Let's talk. Please sign up. Now from the MPs, if they're willing, please sign up. Please, 15 minutes. The school of Andrew. Behind him is Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u184	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Chairman! Dear listeners and viewers! Because we're really looking at a law that's really interested in a very broad head of Ukrainian citizens. I completely agree that Ukraine is losing now and domestic politics is weakening and external, but, well, let's just talk humanly. When we talk about a person's insurance, it's a good thing, a good story, and everyone understands that when something happens, insurance covers it. But here we are talking about the people of the state who are given orders, not by their wives, and not even by you, but by higher positions. They risk their lives, health, and often, in fact, lose both. And then what remains of the family? Of course, there may be a structure that voluntarily raises funds to support the family, but in fact they sent orders from not a fellow member of the service, sent a military officer to obey not even his direct superiors and leaders, but rather the superior authorities of the state. And it must, by the majority represented in Parliament, vote and support this bill without any discussion. Because he was long overdue, and we just kept putting him away for various reasons in the future. Maybe you can talk about the number here, but I think in the first reading I'll vote, and at least talk to double up. I'm not saying to bring up to 70 percent as it touches a civil servant. Because I understand that now the majority of the people who have been formed by the government will say that there is no money in the budget, there is no money to stop it, and that's what it takes the next, there, millennium to deal with it. But at least on the first reading, allowing Parliament to offer a total, acceptable figure. If we can jointly agree on laws that protect citizens’ right to access information, let us work together to protect those who are at risk of real life, threatened with service obligations. They are not just ordinary, simple boys and girls who can get in trouble there, but they get in the way of losing their health and their lives by following government orders. And that's why the state has to provide a safe, as a minimum, family existence. Of course, I will not give examples of the United States where the death of a soldier is compensated to the family for a million dollars. I don't think we should discuss this, because it's impossible. But at least double up, I think it's normal, ethical and necessary. And for that, I call for a majority vote, and our faction will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u185	Please, Chechet's Mikhail. Get ready, Grizzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u186	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, you know, you didn't want to read from this high public rostrum a lecture in such a linguistic sense on the foundations of the formation of public finances. I am primarily talking about the drafter of the bill. You know, it sounds strange when one representative says, "What about the $40,000 overpayment of a pension to someone?" the other says, "What about 24 million?" the third says, "What about 300 million under the Kyoto Protocol, didn't go there," and the fourth says, "Why didn't a few billion go there?" Sorry, there will be no country in such approaches. The worst thing is when you're seeing voters when there's no answer to one question. They say: Why is it written in the law that you do not pay? You start to say, "You know, it's written in the law, but there's no money." And then a person, not being a minister or a deputy or a scientist, an academic or a professor, says, having only 8 classes of education, a participant in a war with three Orders of Fame or a Hero of the Soviet Union, he says, "Well, wait a minute, but you have something in your head. Why do you, if you don't have money, why do you make empty laws? Why do you annoy us?” For the first time, and under the leadership of the President, therefore, the Government is pursuing a comprehensive social policy. We will consider both those involved in the war and those involved in the war in Afghanistan, and those who have retired or who have served today, and with such an integrated approach a solution can be found. But if it's written that there's no money, and we're going to hang the law tomorrow in the paper and as an irritater, that money is worth us as parliamentarians. When do we stop doing populism? So I have a concrete proposal, it's absolutely right, and I have to pay attention to this category of people, and here I have to thank the author. But before we go out, we have to find the money. I propose that the law be re-readed. And then, along with the Ministry of Finance, try to find 24 million, and pass a law that has the resources to make sure that we don't laugh with us anymore, so that we don't embarrass the Ukrainian Parliament with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u187	Anatoly Grizzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u188	I'm not going to be the author of the bill anymore, I'm not going to be the chairman of the committee, and I'm going to try to answer the questions that have been asked. Can't we find 24 million dollars? In order to protect the families of soldiers who have been sent by the State to carry out war tasks that have perished? I'll find them. 17 million dollars costs a helicopter for Yanukovic -- multiply it by 8. 136 million! [[Applause]] That's enough for six years. He could fly to MI-8 as Medvedev flies, Putin. Could I? He has two MI-8s. 60 million dollars is a helipad for him, which is a minimum. You're 2.5 years old. That's not what I'm talking about. Morals don't have money, not money. Twenty-four million. Your courts are completely under your control. The court's decision and the company's three billion dollars that didn't pay the budget last year will continue to supply oil products without VAT, killing virtually all competition in the country. You don't have any money? NAK Naftogaz is about a billion dollars away from Ukrgazenergo, the daughter of RosUkreenergo, is the same Firtash. Because I haven't filed an appeal for 10 days. Do you have no authority? You don't have morals. So you don't have to tell people in pursuits, I repeat, who protect Janukovich personally, and they stand with him from bed to bed, from morning to bed, to Azarov and all. They risk their lives. And if he dies, his family is left with nothing. [[I'm knocking on a tree.]] And you can't find 24 million in the 300-billion budget?Oh, my God! While Janukovic himself publicly claims the whole country and Azarov confirms it. He asks: “In my opinion, 20 per cent of GDP is growing in the country, is it not, Nikolai Janović?” Nikolai Janović says, “I think even more, Victor Fedorovic.” These are quotes from your leaders. You multiply a trillion GDP by 20 percent, 200 billion, and you can't find 24 million?Oh, my God! Morality's gone. Vote in the first reading. You can't do the first thing again, it's been the first time again. Look, when he's registered, it's September 2009, there's still no presidential election campaign. 24 million, people thank you. They thank Cobra, Berkut, the peacekeepers that you sent to Côte d'Ivoire, where civil war has now begun, civil war. And they spoke, here they said, "You cannot guide," and Minister Grishenko and Minister Jegel said, "It is all quiet there." And now there are tens of thousands fleeing the country, and there has been an attack on the U.S. embassy, on the Nigerian embassy in this country, already wounded peacekeepers, thank God, not ours. Take care of them here. And you're saying there's not 24 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u189	Please, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u190	Honourable compatriots, the bill aimed at the social protection of military personnel, their families, members of the families of those military personnel who were killed, according to the bill, in the protection of the Fatherland, in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, while carrying out other military duties. And I think it's a cynicism of the pro-power coalition not to support this bill, which, according to the reporter, is only 21 million dollars. At the same time, this year, 1 billion bribes are being paid to the Attorney General's Office to carry out political repression against the opposition, and helicopters are being bought for state leaders for 17 million dollars. That's what I'm talking about. For $17 million, they're right. And I wanted to point out that in 2010 Naftogaz was paid 32 million budget money to a private law firm associated with Mr. Firtasch for allegedly legal services, for which Korniychuk now sits, allegedly for such charges. Here's your money. Take them. Cut yourself short, at the expense of the President’s Administration, but give it to those people whose families the feds lost their lives for the state. So think what you're doing and what you're saying. I therefore propose to support the prescribed bill, which will strengthen the social protection of the families of those military personnel who died in the line of duty. Moreover, the pension reform proposed by Azarov, Tihypco, is currently banning retirement for years. This applies to the same military personnel, militias. Think about what you're doing. Now you're only making the social situation of the same militias worse, and they're going to have motivation to launch peaceful demonstrations when people can't take more of this abuse of themselves. That's why I'm talking to militia too. You're socially vulnerable now, because the authorities are rejecting you now. You're allowed a term, you're not allowed to retire for years. And that's why I'm proposing to back up this bill again. Members of the opposition indicated where to take these unfortunate 21 million dollars. But it's a sacred thing to support the families of those families, those military personnel who gave their lives for the Fatherland. And let people see who's who in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u191	Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u192	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Thank you for telling me to address the Prime Minister. I do it regularly. For example, last night at half past twelve, I signed a telegram to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, as well as to the Attorney General of Ukraine, about what was done by the Party of Regions today in Odessa. And in Odessa today, the boards were hung up, and they greeted Christ's Christmas. In doing so, they wrote “the cross, ” not “the Christ. ” Yes or no, right? So, and besides everything else, they've moved out of the country and the mayors, and the heads of the other factions, most of them abroad. And two microregions of Tairov and Kotovsky's gravemass were left unheated for nothing. This is because you take full political responsibility. That's what I'm telling you on behalf of the Odessy. So don't push me, because I'll tell you what else I gave you. And in this case, I want to help Mr. Grizzenko where to look for money. He was absolutely right to say where to look for them. And I want to pay attention to both the Court of Auditors and our review committees, including the Committee on Budget Affairs. We've got money drawn to what percentages right now? Under 8.9 in foreign banks. When Ukraine was given less than 7 percent. Why? Because there's no exit. From there, I can see where and where. There's not millions, then there's billions. Today you and I have voted more loyally without us just so that a billion people don't go into a currency exchange budget. Why? You should have shown the International Monetary Fund. So let's do this one billion over here. Now, let's think about what we've led the army to. And that's how three hours of air raids are scheduled for you. You were offered 2 percent last night. We didn't want to do that either. The following year, too, they refused to do so. This is about the confidence of every defender of the country, every officer in the military or the Security Service, or the Air Force, or the State Guard, that he will not go back, that his family will be provided with a level no worse than that of a secretary who works in your high offices and has the status of a civil servant, for he has 90 percent at the time of his death. So long as she's alive, but she's insured by the state, and the state is insure of that. And here's 70, 80, 90 is a perfectly normal scheme. The law has been worked out, it has already been worked out. And I call on all the factions, there's nothing political here, 24 million dollars, 24, I'm specifying, we'll find for that. We'll find it around, even by saving our lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u193	Thank you. One minute from the Social Policy Committee, Dry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u194	Dear colleagues! The worst thing that can happen in the adoption of social bills is politics, cynicism and pharisaicism. Let me remind you, Minister. For five years, you could have done anything in five years for that orange authority to comply with the order of the Military Mothers Committee. I remind you of my bill. In my bill, I wrote one rule. Allow, at the request of the Committee of Military Mothers, families, military personnel who have been killed, to heal in well - known sanatoriums, and to be treated in well - known hospitals. I've been on this platform for two years, breaking this bill. Let's not confuse the bill on the social protection of military personnel and members of their families. Clearly, then, this bill needs to be supported. He needs to work and write out clearly the source of the filling. Abby was supposed to accept the bill. Because we are primarily called upon to do so by the Committees of Military Mothers whose children were killed in peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u195	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Everyone who spoke was right that this should really be supported. At the same time, I'd like us to take this very seriously to the scientific expertise and ask, and I'd like the committee to pay attention to this as well. I hope that we may accept it on our first reading. The thing is, if we leave this law as it is now proposed, we'll do this. First. We're actually going to raise the pension by 10 percent by two people. But we will significantly reduce pensions by three or more. So please, I'm asking you to pay attention to this. Please pay attention to this. This is one moment. One second. It's called a figure of 24 million, 21 million, and so on. The numbers, unfortunately, are not there yet, maybe less. So let's not operate on numbers, numbers are none of our business. Unfortunately, once again, there is no need for the 27th article of the Code of Budget, a financial basis. It's a calculation. With regard to the exchange of views, I am putting to the vote, and I would like to support Bill No. 5108 on Amendments to Article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons, in the first reading. Please vote. [[13:08:01]] For 396 [[Applause]] Dear colleagues. The applause will be when we adopt the law. But I'm also addressing the committee, paying particular attention to not improving one of us, and not making it worse for others because, unfortunately, this is the norm. We are considering a draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection (for social guarantees to the parents of the deceased (dead) or missing members of the military service) (registration No. 2337). There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please support. [[13:08:59]] For 223 Offer supported. Please, Yuri Pavlovich Samylenko. Get ready, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u196	Respectable colleagues. After such a violent discussion of the previous bill, I will not translate the proposed bill, which also deals with increasing the social payments of a particular category of citizens, and translate it into political discussions. But I would like to point out that this bill was still submitted in April 2008 and was sent to the finalization of the Government of Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko because the ruling coalition did not back the bill at the time. Now, basically. The proposed bill deals with the issue that requires a solution, namely, the lack of adequate social protection for the parents of members of the emergency service who died during their stay. I stress that it is a compulsory emergency service when the State calls young people to serve in the army and sends them to serve in what is called hot spots, including Afghanistan. I am focusing on Afghanistan, as according to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, there are currently some 2,000 families in our country who have lost or lost their military forces, and more than 90 per cent of them are Afghans. According to article 15 of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees for their social protection, there is a 25 per cent minimum wage for that category of persons, approximately 149 bracelets, the mother or the father of the deceased son. I propose that this payment be increased to 40 per cent, which, at the current subsistence minimum, will amount to a budget burden of about 5.1 million grivens per year. And now for the main scientific expert's comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u197	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u198	The establishment of benefits for this category of persons is not subject to the regulation of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of their Social Protection, that the conditions, rules and procedures for the retirement of members of the family of emergency personnel in the event of the loss of the breadwinner are governed by the relevant provisions of the Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service. It was in this law, its article 7 in April, that I stress that I proposed to make these changes in 2008. But at that time, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office recommended that it be amended to article 15 of the Veteran War Status Act, guarantees of their social protection, which I did by submitting the relevant bill on 8 July 2008 as a replacement, and now the recommendations of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office return me to the original version. Two and a half years have passed, and 2,000 families continue to receive a miserable allowance for the loss of their children. I am prepared to follow the above-mentioned recommendations of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, who in principle support the bill, and ask that the bill be returned to me for re-reading as a subject of the law of the legislative initiative. And one more thing. We have just considered, supported the project of my colleague, Griesenka, which also relates to the increase in pensions and payments to members of the family of soldiers in the event of the loss of the breadwinner. There are other laws governing concessional payments to various categories of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u199	Yuri Pavlovich, finish. You two are out of time. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u200	Just a minute. The mass of amendments that have been tabled, which sometimes aggravates our legislation, leads to an increase in social benefits, the search for additional means of payment, as we have debated today, and the dissatisfaction of the various categories of concessions. Is it not time for us to unite these laws, as Mikhail Vasilevich Chechetov said, in one in which we clearly define what are called, concessions and additional payments? By the way, it's already done.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u201	Thank you. Yuri Pavlovich, well, it's from another opera altogether. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, perhaps indeed, we will heed the author’s offer. He agrees, and so does the proposal and the committee. It's just that I have another one, not for the first time again, because we've sent it back, but to send it back to the author for further work so that he can submit these proposals to another bill, that is to say another bill. I'm betting on the vote on the direction. So once again, we're not re-routing, we're sending the subject to work, because we need to make changes not to that, but to another law, which is that we need to make purely technical and legal. Therefore, I would like to support the proposal to send a bill number 2337 to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. [[13:14:51]] For three hundred It's done. Once again, my dear colleagues, that the idea is supported, but you just have to make this proposal into another law. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons with Retirement and Persons with Disabilities is under consideration. [[Registration number 4535]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please support her. [[13:15:36]] For 219 Thank you. Supported. Please, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. He's both the author and the committee, so four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! According to the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons with Retirement and Disabled Persons, 1 group assigned to a disability pension pursuant to the Ukrainian Act on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons is set up to provide 50 per cent of the living minimum for persons who have lost their jobs. The same war invalids who receive retirement by age, disability and seniority, according to other laws, are provided with state social assistance to care for a minimum of 15 percent of the living for those who have lost their jobs. The same approach has also been taken in determining the size of State social assistance for the care of the disabled 2 groups, those who receive a disability pension in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons” establishing State social assistance in. 25 per cent, others 15 per cent of the minimum of living for those who have lost their jobs. With a view to establishing the same approach to determining the size of State social assistance for the care of persons with disabilities of war, regardless of the law under which they are assigned a pension, I have initiated the corresponding changes set out in the draft Act amending the Law on State Social Assistance for Persons with Retirement and Disabled Persons. [[on State Social Assistance for the Care of War Disability]] [[Registration number 4535]] By a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 November 2010, No. 2661 of the Act was sent to the Committee on Retired Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons for re-reading. During the drafting of the bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee have carefully examined the comments and suggestions made when considering the issue at first reading. Taking into account the social dimension of the issue at its meeting on 8 December 2010, the Committee adopted a conclusion: to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following a review of the first reading, to adopt, on the basis of a revised draft law proposing to establish the same size of State social assistance for care, irrespective of the law under which the pension is granted, persons with disabilities from the number of persons who participate directly in hostilities during the Great War of 1941-1945 and the war of 1945 with imperialist Japan. State social assistance for such persons is set at the size of: the disabled and the group – 50 per cent of the minimum of living, the third group – 25 per cent and the third group – 15 per cent of the minimum of living for those who have lost their jobs. So, in summary, honourable colleagues, the committee listened to the observation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- and narrowed down the subject of the knowledge of the law to the disabled of war, who took a direct part in the Great Homeland War in warfare -- that is, the price of the issue has been significantly reduced. So the committee is asking for support from the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u203	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Sign up. Yes, please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u204	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, this bill can be supported at least because it restores justice. And you know, there's a lot of situations where the same people use different rights, not depending on their status, depending on their merits, but depending on when they've had their social benefits, that's depending on what law or when they've done it. But this does not make a person different, and its merits, including as a defender of the homeland, do not change. So the idea of the bill is perfectly clear. This is what the author and colleague Cibenko said to establish the same rights in this case, irrespective of the laws under which these payments were made. I think I need to support this approach. First, the only thing I saw in my mind was rational grain. It's in the name of the amendment bill. on changes to the law, and in fact, change only to the eighth article. And we have the right practice, when it's suggested to those other subjects of the legislative initiative to change to a separate article of the law, we say in the title of this bill: change to the eighth, to the 16th, to the 24th article. It seems to be something to consider. Thank you. The project should be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u205	Thank you. Pavlovsky Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u206	I promised. Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland". We support this bill, and I ask you to pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u207	And that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u208	Thank you. I also support this bill, and I hope that the entire room will vote. And why? Dear citizens, I think every single one of you, millions of people, get paid like that, they get paid by the national MPs. These are rents for residential services. They're both given to disabled people, including wars, and to ordinary people who don't have jobs that don't have wages that we get with you. Look, I took the bills I pay for utilities. When you pay, you pay and you put it there, that's one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u209	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u210	No, it's an important question, it's the social protection of people, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u211	Dear colleague, you are, fortunately, not disabled, so this law does not apply to you. Either talk on the subject or I won't let you do the agitation. Please talk about the disabled.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u212	Adam Ivanovich, the theme is to increase the social protection of people. Maybe someone thinks those people with disabilities are making money? So I'm showing them evidence that, in fact, millions of people in the country count every penny. Municipal services: September – 183 bracelets, October – 240, November – 316 December – 555. And that's how millions of people get payments. From September to December, the cost of utilities has tripled. And in December, they write: From January 01.02 new tariffs are introduced, that is, if there were 550 in December, there would be 800 in January. That is why both this law and all laws aimed at social protection must be upheld. Because if, for example, a year’s pension is raised by 60 dollars, utilities raise by 100 to 120 dollars each month. What are people living for? This is the most up - to - date question that millions of people today are concerned about: how to pay for community services for which their children are entitled. To school children to have what to eat? That is why the Supreme Council must adopt laws that will allow such problems to be solved, not the lobbyist laws that billions of people give to someone, one or two in their pocket, and millions in their millions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u213	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it seems to me that soon we will need a few coins to pay for the utilities. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's how you showed up on your credit cards. Yes, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u214	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, it's very good that we've put together all the projects today, and we've seen, thank you, Mr. Samylenka Yuri, who has raised very important questions today, and we've had to vote in the first reading, and the price is very low there. I was impressed when this law was being drafted, amending State social assistance to people who do not have the right to a pension and to persons with disabilities. I was impressed by the facts that are written here. Think about it: the number of people with disabilities of war falls by 10,000 to 11,000 each year. The year went by, and 10-11,000 people went down. So there's been an increase in places on the cemeteries. And that includes not being able to provide adequate care, saving some of these people in order to reduce this number that goes so fast out of life. That's why I don't see any excuses for us to go the same way and recognize the same amount of government social assistance and care regardless of the law under which the pension is granted. It is very correct to write here: the disabled and the groups – 50 percent, the third – 25 and the third – 15 percent of the minimum of living for those who have lost their jobs. In my opinion, we should thank our colleague Suškević, Zybenko, M. M., for the initiative. The cost of this law has so far been said to be 33 million, I think this sum is 3 times less, given the situation I said about how many people die. This calls for the adoption of this law. It should be accepted both in the first and second readings, if you want to know. It's the case where you can go for it. Thank you for your attention and thank you to those who have prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, the line will be after the vote. Question completed. Both the Committee and the Chief Scientific and Expert Offices propose to support the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons Without the Right to Retirement and Persons with Disabilities in the first. [[on State Social Assistance for the Care of War Disability]] [[Registration number 4535-d]] Please vote. [[13:27:13]] For 355 Thank you. Copy that. Easy, easy, easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u216	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich! You know, when I was talking about increasing utilities, I wasn't thinking about myself, because you know, with the MP's salary, you can still pay for these utility services, even though when 200 bracelets go up every month, there's not enough MP's pay. What about millions of people who do not receive parliamentary salaries? Who live on a thousand-and-a-half a month? And what's a month's worth of 100, 150, 200 dollars more than utilities? Whom do we protect? Where are the promised subsidies that will subsidize increased public services? There's no grant, only units get it, and who's gonna protect millions? That's why our task, the Supreme Council, is to create conditions for people to pay for those utilities and not worry that they don't have enough money for everything else. And when these utilities are eating, in fact, the entire family budget. How will this family continue to live? How will she raise her children? That's what I'm drawing attention to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u217	A draft law amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act is under consideration. [[on the elimination of the requirement to make the alarm only in the WTO member countries]] Registration number 6192-d. There is a proposal to consider a short-term bill. [[13:29:00]] For 211 Offer supported. Please, the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking's subcommittee, Klimenko Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u218	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by Bill, completed, number 6192. Our committee was reviewed and the process of processing took into account all the observations that were made by the National Deputies during the first reading in the sessional room, as well as by the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. At the same time, they came up with a decision to take into account the only proposal made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate to exclude from the draft the requirement of compulsory signature with the authorized authority of the country in which the non-resident non-resident Memorandum of Information was registered in the event of an emergency operation. The amended bill itself contains only two rules: the first rule is the lifting of the ban, the prevention of non-SOT and the second countries, to clarify the rules on non-inclusion of the State in which the registered insurer is not resident in the list of offshore zones. I want to remind you that there were also warnings about tax authorities about tax evasion. And with the effectiveness of the Tax Code, I want to remind you that in 2012 there will be a general rule on income tax, and in 2011 the insurance will be in a transitional period of 3% from the Gross Congregation, including insurance operations. And so the authorized body present in the hall today is the norm that it requires them to list those companies that, according to the authorized authority, are uninformed and that apply to them the 12 percent additional tax rule. And so that's exactly the kind of gaps that might have occurred.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u219	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u220	They're accounted for. So given that there's also a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, we're going to adopt this bill as a basis. And the Committee on Finance and Banking recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u221	Thank you. Please sign up for discussion. There'll be an Arjevitin for all of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u222	Dear National Deputies! I criticized the previous first draft of this bill. In this paper, it's usually possible to support this bill because it's settled the main issues: it's that we've previously refused to have the non-resident country not sign the memorandums between the respective controlling organizations -- this rule is taken into account. Next, I, if you recall, also criticized that we should protect more, the rights of consumers. And given that the Tax Code is now being implemented if rating funding is being introduced to those countries that are going to be in non-resident countries, what the reporter has already said. If they fail to meet the requirements set by the special commission, they will pay a higher percentage of taxes -- that's 12 percent. I also think of the new requirements introduced by the Tax Code for insurance companies to move into the general tax system in a few years. I think it's going to in some way make it impossible for such an outflow or to launder traditional funds. What is involved in the inclusion of non-resident countries that do not join the WTO? Clearly, this is Russia. And indeed, many of our insurance companies are re-insured in Russia. On the one hand, maybe these insurance companies won't be as reliable as they are in Europe, but the burden of commission rewards might be less, and that'll, to some extent, compensate these risks. So my proposal is, first reading, today, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u223	Yes, thank you. One minute from the faction that didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u224	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of the history of the question: that during the adoption of a set of laws related to Ukraine's entry into WTO, insurance activities were partially allowed in Ukraine by non-resident insurance companies, as required by the WTO. So the purpose of the change was re. Illumination of insurance legislation. But it was limited to a number of non-resident insurance claims. So, in my opinion, these restrictions were wrong, and what's most important is that it wasn't required by the WTO. It has already been told by the Arjevetinas that Russia is the case, where commissions are much smaller than, say, requirements than in the European insurance market. So in my opinion, given this discussion, it would be appropriate to adopt the law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u225	Yes. Question completed. I'll put it to a vote. Please support the Bill 6192-d amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[on the elimination of the requirement to make a warning only in WTO member countries]] Please be supportive. [[13:35:59]] For 259. Thank you. The Law was adopted in the first reading. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets on financial monitoring of the activities of professional participants in the stock market. [[Registration number 7051-d]] Please support the proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:36:35]] For 205 The offer to support. Please, from the Committee of Prasolonov Igor Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u226	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, with your permission, may I remind you that the bill was sent to the Committee on Finance and Banking for review on 30 November 2010. Our committee finalized the draft law and considered it at its meeting on 22 December. During the development, we have examined and most of our comments have been taken into account both by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and by the proposals made by you by the people's deputies of Ukraine. The project is proposed, first, to introduce additional requirements for financial monitoring of the activities of professional participants in the stock market, which will concern the participants themselves and their units, both in Ukraine and abroad. Secondly, it is intended to prevent persons with unliquidated, unrepentant convictions for financial and performance offences from having a significant share in the statutory capital of the stock market, i.e. 10 per cent or more. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend the adoption of the amended draft law as a basis. Please support the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u227	Thank you, Igor Mikolaiovich. Yes, once again there will be Arjevitin for all. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u228	The honourable national MPs, in fact, can support this legislative initiative in the first reading, since it is the main issue that the financiering will extend not only to separate departments that will be created by a legal person but, in fact, to the legal person himself and to her subsidiaries. It's a complex approach and, of course, it's right. The only thing left is maybe a second reading to settle the issue, and what if, by law, if a person became, as they say, on a bad path, has a trial and owns 10 percent of the substantial participation in statutory capital? The organization was licensed, and tomorrow he committed a crime. What about such a participant? How can you get him out of the way? I think it needs to be settled in the final edition. Or the Science-Expert Authority suggests that the rule be reconsidered if such a crime has been committed, including by virtue of the law, it is the appropriateness of legal persons for committing corruption that comes into effect on 1 January of this year as to the need for a 30-day deadline for reporting that such a crime has taken place. Or perhaps if a person commits such a crime for three years, or maybe three years, or maybe five of them forbid him from participating in such an association for having such an unwarranted life - position. But what we are now proposing is again on first reading, logically supporting and second reading to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u229	Thank you. Yes, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u230	Reverend Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill is quite positive for improving the regulation of the stock market and protecting consumer rights. Today, Ukraine’s stock market is imperfect and insufficiently transparent, causing problems in its functioning. The changes proposed in the bill are quite right, especially with regard to the prohibition of possession as a significant part of the statutory capital of professional market participants in the criminal market. The bill is largely worked out by a profile committee. And once again, I would like to highlight the important problems that the bill solves. And I think we need to support them in the first. Take it as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u231	Thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on the adoption of Bill 7051-d, amending the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act. [[on financial monitoring of the activities of professional participants in the stock market]] Please vote. [[13:41:44]] For 232 Thank you. Decision taken. We are re-examined by the President of Ukraine's Bill No. 6604 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on compensation, competence, sorry, law enforcement authorities on the protection of underwater cultural and archaeological heritage. Reported by President Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. Prepare Beahu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u232	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Competence of Law Enforcement Authorities on the Protection of Undersea Cultural and Archaeological Heritage proposes that the Ukrainian Security Service be responsible for the protection of underwater cultural and archaeological heritage, in accordance with legislation. Proposed amendments to article 24 of the Ukrainian Security Service Act. This innovation cannot be supported. Because, first of all, this commitment is not appropriate for the Ukrainian Security Service. Secondly, it is not in line with the Ukrainian Security Service's Security Act. Thirdly, the implementation of cultural heritage protection measures is not part of the factors that affect Ukraine's national security. Fourthly, the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act clearly defines a system of administrations in the area of cultural heritage protection, which does not include the Ukrainian Security Service. And under such circumstances, the head of state considers it necessary to refrain from relying on the Ukrainian Security Service for its powerless authority. In this connection, it proposes in the law under consideration, section I, paragraph 2, of the amendment to the Ukrainian Security Service Act, to exclude it. In addition, amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences propose that the issue of granting officials of the Ukrainian State Border Service the right to draft protocols on administrative offences provided for in article 92 be resolved in violation of the protection of cultural heritage legislation, the Code. In doing so, it is mistakenly proposed that the first section of the first law under consideration should be inserted into section 2 of article 255. An error is that part 2 of article 255 of the Code defines persons authorized to draw up administrative records for further consideration by the authorities listed in articles 222-24418 of the Code. The administrative, administrative and administrative offences provided for in article 92 of the Code are violations of the requirements of cultural heritage legislation, and the authorities listed in other articles of the Code, namely 218 and 219 - administrative commissions and executive committees of rural, rural and urban councils. The subject matter of a protocol to deal with such matters is defined, not in the second part, but in the first part of article 255 of the law. To correct such a mistake, which may in practice lead to problems of law enforcement, the President of Ukraine proposes to make appropriate changes to the first part of article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences. Also. So the first section of the first law under consideration is proposed to be drafted in such a way. First. In paragraph 22, paragraph 1 of the first part of article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences replace “article 18510” with “article 92, 18510”. [[This is information from the Supreme Council of South Africa in 1984, appendix 51, article 1122]] In view of what has been said, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the present law. Dear colleagues, what is this about? When you and I passed the law, we did not study all the questions carefully with you. There is a technical error that I have mentioned and is related to the activities of the foreign service, and there is a major mistake when I rely on the Ukrainian Security Service for its inequitable functions, namely to investigate or deal with the protection of cultural heritage under water. The President is drawing our attention to these two circumstances and asking you to consider his suggestions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, are there questions for the rapporteur? Please sign up. Please, five minutes, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u234	Give the word to Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u235	Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u236	Thank you. It's nice that we protect our heritage under water and on water and everywhere and everything. So I'm afraid that soon with this legacy protection we won't give and the shell will catch the man. Or, as with this legacy, does the fish also refer to an inheritance? I can see that Beales says no, but you have to tell people you can fit these water ponds and rivers, or can't this poor man fit anywhere else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u237	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr, for your comment. I share your concern, which, of course, has a reason, especially when today we are faced with situations where ordinary citizens cannot actually use water tanks, but the subject of this law provides for the protection of that cultural heritage that is under water, which is protected by the relevant authorities, which are enshrined in the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, but why have we also joined the Ukrainian Security Service? What's the Ukrainian Security Service for? The president points out that there is a list of these organs, and adding another organ that is not right to deal with these matters, well, to put it mildly, is unnecessary. So thank you for your comment, and I wish that you and I would always be very careful and consider all of our bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u238	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u239	Thank you. The honourable reporter, of course, enjoys the unlimited care of the President of Ukraine for an inheritance, especially far away, which is protected by law and of material value, and yet such a critical enough view of the inequity functions that the Ukrainian Security Service wanted to provide. But I would like to hear a few words about the modern Ukrainian artistic heritage in the future. Well, I mean, you're being personal, and, I think, how does the President feel about persecuting Mrs. Mathios, a famous writer, who is being chased by one of our colleagues from the Communist Party? Shevchenka’s laureate is called for questioning, the winner of the Shevchenk Prize. It is a living person whom we want to turn into an inheritance by burying it. What is the President's purpose here, your personal position and the position of the political power you represent, and your personal attitude towards the persecution and removal of the book from circulation? The book is being removed from circulation for the first time in the history of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u240	Thank you, Mr. Andrey, for your question. I also share your concern, and you, as a representative of the opposition, are paying attention to both the Supreme Council and the President and his representative in the Supreme Council to such facts. I can assure you, and it is absolutely responsible to state that the President of Ukraine, as a subject under the Constitution, who protects the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, including in the area of freedom of speech and the right to express his opinion, is extremely principled in any fact that becomes known to him. If you're making that public today, I'll prove it. I'm sure the President will take this personally. But I point out to you that the President is the institution that is not involved in the activities of law enforcement or judicial bodies or in the activities of national MPs, and therefore the right of the national deputy to appeal has been realized. If the law enforcement authorities break the law when investigating such facts or.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, I haven't stopped, but I'm warning you. Let's talk about the law, and the law has an underwater cultural and archaeological heritage. What you're asking doesn't have anything to do with underwater heritage and archaeological. Please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u242	Dear Yuri Romanovich, I think that the question of the bill and the subject of regulation is extremely important, because as we have black archaeology, so is underwater black archaeology, because there are a lot of places that experts know, especially near Zaporozhye, and near Hortica, where everyone knows where there are enough interesting places to explore and, of course, institutionally through the structures of power and through control, this must be done. I agree that maybe it's not a matter of the S.B.I., but in general, I think a bill is necessary. And I would like to draw your attention, and I want you to convey to all the authorities, starting with the law enforcement structures of the Ministry of Culture, which we now have a bigger problem, to protect museums that are practically unprotected today. Most regional museums are not protected today. Now, I read today, and I'm not going to call advertising bad, and at one district center, 150 exhibits have been stolen, in another. So today we need to protect active museums and an active cultural heritage, and local authorities say, "There is no money." Because she really didn't get the money from the central authorities. So I think it's urgent to find a mechanism for the Ministry of Culture to control the local authorities so that all of us museums with real cultural heritage are protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u243	Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u244	Yuri Carmazin. Honorable representative of the President! Do you know how much I respect you? But I would like to ask that the President, please also, that the Security Service should be engaged in an archaeological heritage. I think he'll come to that conclusion. It's very important. And please prove to him that, according to the report of the Court of Auditors, 80 million dollars were not used for the Euro - 2012 assignment. It's both on the bus and on the air force. And prove to him, please, that he is the guarantor of the Constitution, the Commander-in-Chief. And I wrote about the position of control, about the person in charge of the control of the HSS. So I know what to do there. We need to break things now, investigate them, and report them to society. That's why I don't think we should rule out the Security Service, because it's in the fight against corruption, and that's it. So, I think you can bring this to the president's knowledge, get good -- and then we will be, really.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u245	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u246	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Your concern is well - founded. The only thing you and I are involved in is a political process, and very often the charges against the B.S.A. are heard when, in some circumstances or other, she criticizes that she does not perform her own functions, she investigates things that are not right. That's why the President, as a guarantor of the Constitution, of human rights and freedoms and of the citizen, says that if it comes to criminal matters, we have law enforcement agencies, and that's the police, and that's the prosecutor's office. IN ACCORDANCE with his law, however, he deals with matters of national security. As far as your comments on other circumstances are concerned, of course, I will also prove to the President your concern, and in fact, that what you report to him in the Supreme Council Hall is also a testimony to the fact that social attention, and the parliamentary attention, and the power of attention, will be attached to those issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u247	Thank you. By Behles Valeriy Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u248	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! A few literally brief remarks. First. The author of this bill is not the President, the author of this bill is National Deputy Shemczuk Viktorovich, the first. Second, it's not about the fish in the bill, it's about the underwater cultural and archaeological heritage of our nation, it's another trailer, so to speak. And thirdly, with this bill, the President fully agreed to exclude the investigation, which was emphasized by the distinguished Yuri Romanovich. And the Special Committee, the Committee on Legislative Security, fully accepted the President's proposals and asked the National MPs to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u249	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, are there questions? Valerius Ananiyovich, no. Come back to the rostrum. If you have any questions, write it down. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u250	Yes. Please, Zarubinsky. There are no presentations on this subject during the re-examination.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u251	Adam Ivanovich, I'm sorry, this is a technical mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u252	Error. Yes, Sharov Igor is probably the same. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, well, indeed, you and I in Ukraine have a problem on the ground preserving the cultural heritage, in fact, already solved. All the problems are solved, solved, there's nothing more to discuss. In addition to the Tenth Church, the government allocates ten million, I repeat, ten million to build a new, unknowable religion that will be the temple, but, in fact, the foundation of the Tenth Church will be destroyed. The city council of Kiev is depriving itself of its meagre budget, without any funds to be paid today, of the need. They put in a huge amount of money, they vote directly to put into the construction of a new temple in Moscow Square, where there will be a cinema, where the hotel, I think, is also planned. Because of these problems, we have already resolved the land. Mr. Jury, the situation has come to this, the question is not simple, I understand very well that today we can reflect and say that it's not the Security Service's jurisdiction, it's not the border authorities. So we're going back to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-13-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, I remind you once again: there is no discussion. You had it. the opportunity to ask a question is in question, you didn't ask it. That's your problem. Let's move on to a bill with the President's proposals. Please put to the vote the President's proposal first, which the committee proposes to support. Please vote. [[13:59:50]] For 288 Supported. The president's second sentence is put to the vote, the committee proposes to take it into account, please vote. [[14:00:16]] For-300 Correction supported. So, your honors, all the president's amendments are supported. I propose to vote on the adoption of Act 6604 amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the competence of law enforcement authorities in matters of protection of underwater cultural and environmental heritage. [[Taking into account the President's proposals]] Please vote. [[14:00:59]] For 283 The law is passed. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. We'll continue at 16 o'clock. The committees we spoke to at the morning session are both the Yavorowski Committee and the Martinenko Committee, the questions we asked you to consider, please prepare them for consideration.
