ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:06]] They've registered 380 deputies, cards, I'm underlining. Invite the deputies to the session room. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! We continue to consider the issues that are set out in the schedule for the fourth time. The draft Law on the Specificities of Conduct in Administrative Offences and Forced Disposal of Foreigners and Uncitizens during the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine is announced. The suggestion is, dear colleagues, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:03:01]] For-188. Decision taken. The reporter is the first Deputy Minister of Justice, Emilianov Inna Ivanovna. Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik, the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, will speak from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You have before you the draft Law on the Specificities of Conduct in Administrative Offences and the Forced Disposal of Foreigners and Uncitizens during the 2012 final part of the European Football Championship in Ukraine. The project is designed to meet the requirements of Ukraine as a country hosting the European Football Championship to establish appropriate simplified procedures for those who commit administrative offences. In particular, such as petty bullying, petty theft of foreign property, public appeals for failure to comply with the requirements of a law enforcement officer, or malicious disobedience to the legal authority of a law enforcement officer, and so forth. The project foresees that these cases of administrative offences are being dealt with over the years and in accordance with the reduced procedure, at the same time they are being applied to those persons who have committed administrative offences in the area of the sports building, the prohibition of attending mass sports or other cultural sightings during the European Championship. In addition, the project is also envisaged to introduce a short procedure for handling cases of forced discharge outside Ukraine of aliens and stateless persons, provided that they have been drawn into appropriate warehouses under the Code of Administerment; provided that they are, if these persons are grossly violating the legislation on the status of foreigners and stateless persons, including those who do not comply with the legal requirements and decisions of the authorities of Ukraine and their officials; and also if their actions conflict with the interests of security during these sporting activities. This project will be limited in time, it is introduced as proposed by the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u4	Thank you. It has been in place since the European Football Championship and has completed its work after 30 days, after all the finals of the European Championship have been carried out. 30 days is needed to ensure that the court’s decisions are appealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u5	Thank you, sit down, please. Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik, first deputy head of the committee. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The purpose of this bill is to implement the UEFA conditions in Ukraine for the safe conduct of the final part of the European Football Championship. The bill proposes to establish a shorter procedure for dealing with such cases. It is also proposed to achieve a shorter period of time – during the period of time, to deal with such matters, and it is envisaged that the offender should be brought to the authorized body and that the time limit should be reduced to one time. At the same time, there are things that need further study, including international experience, such as that of this bill, that will be dealt with directly in sports facilities, in specially equipped premises, that is to say, there will be court-martials, and there will certainly be detention for those detained. This can create some problems, including security, because they can go and extract their so-called ones, but it needs to be looked at again as an international experience, with all these conditions being met. At the same time, we believe that the decision committee itself has not adopted, since we have not yet concluded that we have the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and is proposing to move, but we do. I personally think that you can accept it in the first reading and the nuances that there are, I caution you, still go back to the consideration and taking into account the international experience of adopting the appropriate bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u7	You all have it, don't you? [[B in m in s a l in]] A report was made. All of it. What? [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you. Dear colleagues, the committee has considered and written in its decision, and I will read it. Or please tell Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u8	There was a committee meeting yesterday, I say again. Based on the fact that we didn't have the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, we didn't make the decision. But I am. Once again, there was a committee meeting. And we did. decided to postpone the discussion. But I say again, personally, I think it's worth accepting as a basis and further correcting. That's my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u9	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? It's about who has it. who has read the committee head's letter carefully, the committee is referring to a number of warnings and, at the same time, the general conclusion of the committee is: "Considering the above, please postpone the consideration of the bill to one of the following plenary sessions." It's like the bill is going to be changed by now. So let us therefore put the honourable colleagues, according to the Rules, into making decisions. If we've taken the basis for preparing for the second reading, we'll ask the Ministry of Justice for the European and world practice of dealing with such issues during the World Championships or the European Championships, so that we don't demonstrate our Ukrainian inventions here. I think it's going to be the right offer, but at the same time I understand that when this law was drafted, the Ministry of Justice probably based its work on the experience that it is. So, honourable colleagues, please sign up for a discussion of the issue in order to better determine the position of the faction. Please have the names of the national MPs. Oleg Zarubinsky, then Yuri Klukkowski. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u10	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, the standards proposed in the bill are absolutely not exclusive to world or even European practice. What's more, I've learned a little bit about this practice, maybe not in the full range of countries in Europe, but in many football countries, I'll say, countries and, above all, where the Championships and the world are going on, and Europe from football, we're using the accelerated practice of dealing with football hooligans. Moreover, I found that there is some practice that is given even less than the time for the country to kick these football hooligans out. Let's imagine, if this isn't the time, but as is the case in today's Ukrainian legislation, it could be half of the European Championship for that, or it wouldn't be enough for all of Europe's football championships. You realize it's absurd, it's ridiculous. This is the first moment. One second. I think that in preparing for the second reading you will have to learn exactly what experience is -- this is the non-admission in Ukraine of football fans who in their countries or who are in other countries have repeated violations of the rule of law during these football operations. I mean, I think that more, let's say, it would be effective without knowing that they are prone to wrongdoing and are, as they say, repetitives of these violations, already in Ukraine to determine this issue, which is some difficulty, and simply not allow them into Ukraine. In Europe, a very well - developed base of so - called football hooligans is being developed. Good development and use of this base. I think the factions of the People's Party seem to be worth adopting this bill. Because any bill requires it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u12	For any bill, the more urgent and non-exclusive it takes time for it to be implemented, in order to prepare both law enforcement authorities and other bodies to do so neatly, cleanly, without breaches of international law, but effectively at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u13	Yes. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u14	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." I would like to point out to my fellow MPs that it is not the title of the bill that should be voted on, but the content of the bill. And so I'd like to draw your attention to some of the features of this content. This is not about administrative misconduct committed in stadiums. It's about all the administrative offences that are covered by the relevant articles that are being done anywhere during Euro-12, including in those cities where no Euro-12 is happening. So under Euro-12, there's a little bit of a rougher way of getting everyone to be administratively responsible, and I want to emphasize everyone, not just football hooligans. The other one. The bill openly violates article 29 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides for the exclusive possibility of detaining a person, that is, disqualifying a person without a 72 - hour decision by a competent court in the event of a crime alone. This is about administrative infringements, so detention is simply not a constitutional step and cannot be accepted. So this is a step towards introducing a tough police regime in our state during Euro-12. I'm not a fan of football hooligans, I'd like to fight them, but I really didn't want us to fight against them in violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, and so that this fight would involve not only football hooligans, but anyone who might be involved in administrative responsibility at that time. So I urge you not to support the bill in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u15	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u16	Dear colleagues! Honorable Predestination! Controversial motives for this bill. First of all, the Ministry of Justice, as the main rule-of-law ministry, knowing that Euro-2012 was supposed to submit and harmonize this bill in advance, not so that in such an exceptional, fire-fighting regime we accept it, because there is no conclusion of the Science-Expert Office and so on. But in fact, it's a little bit of a criticism to the Ministry of Justice about the substance. Administrative delicacy is any violation, even the transition to red light and therefore the simplified procedure for documenting these violations, administrative infringements, will be of benefit only. Why? Because there is no need for a phase of knowledge or pretrial investigation, it is when an event takes place and the authorities responsible for administrative oversight, that is, the police, the internal affairs authorities. Next, the second ingredient. You know, football ultras, football fans are a social category that is even used by politicians, unfortunately, by our politicians. Remember the events in Lviv that were used football fans, I don't want to do advertising, one of the political parties. So, and even sometimes things happen that you and I, as politicians, have to react to. Why? Because in the stadiums of Ukraine, football ultras, football fans, even from Lviv, ride with a portrait of the political figure of one, I don't want to say which one, but this banner is already hanging. So the reaction here should be. And as for colleague Yuri Bogdanovich, who said there were indeed some violations, but we must accept them with you, and if they think there would be a violation, let the established way of the Constitution lead us even to the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of these rules of the Administrative Code. So I signed up against it, but from the point of view of criticism of the Ministry of Justice, and this bill is needed, even at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u17	Please, Sergey Sass microphone, then Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u18	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, respected colleagues, as if there were no information about the European Championship being moved a year closer. Where we rush, why we try again to adopt laws, to break laws that are valid. A bill handed down to the National Deputies 11.05, each national MP has the right to submit an alternative bill within 14 days. This right is violated. Today, there is no conclusion of a committee that must make a decision within 30 days of its adoption. This term is not yet fulfilled today. The facts and elements of the violation of the Constitution by counterpart Klukkowski of Article 29 were described. Where are we in a hurry? There are a number of issues to the content of violations of both the rights and freedoms of citizens and those without citizenship in Ukraine. Why we are adopting laws to violate the laws in force in Ukraine. Stop it, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Today, 10 bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u19	Microphone, last one, please, accentuate again. Microphone, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u20	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. 10 drafts for the second reading today were discussed without the distribution of tables that should be submitted within 10 days before consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u21	Thank you. Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Our faction, the MP's "For the Future Reforms" on this bill, also wants to express a few positions. First. It is good that the bill registered is not in the last days when guests have to go to our championship, but it is in more than a year. The other one. I don't know why we're in such a hurry. Why do all the bills that at any time apply to the Euro-2012, even if we don't have to hurry, we have something going on either with the violation of the Constitution or with the violation of the laws, with the violation of the Rules, that can't go straight? Something in that Euro is probably sitting in Ukraine with us about its preparation that everything is not going well. Now, what about the bill itself? Yuri Bogdanovich has given some real problems, and the bill needs to be narrowed down. We can do this in the procedure for the second reading. So our proposal is to vote on the first-reading procedure, but no short-circuit procedures. Fully prepare for the second reading and see.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u23	Microphone, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u24	What's the profile committee gonna say about that? And then make an effort, because the subjects are very annoying and also apply to foreign citizens, to take into account the positions of the Chief Legal Authority when preparing for the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. Regarding suggestions or comments by our colleague Sergio Sasa, you may have noted that the bill was registered in the Supreme Council almost a month ago. Who wanted to make an alternative, I think he had an opportunity to do that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I say when this document was registered and posted immediately on the site. Dear colleagues, once again, let us give more attention now to the meaningful completion of this document. Although it is clear that criticism is justified. I'll inform you that from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. I've been holding an extended PACES Bureau meeting. And the fact that the tables weren't handed out doesn't take responsibility away from me, and I'm asking the secretariat to prepare me with information that there's not much room. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law on the Specialities of Conduct in Administrative Offences and Forced Expulsion of Foreigners and Uncitizens during the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8426]] Please vote. [[16:22:08]] For 255 Decision taken. Thank you! Honourable National Deputies, I propose to consider a draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on First-Prime Measures to Prevent the Negative Consequences of the Financial Crisis and to Amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the redemption of bonds]] The reporter is Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, co-rapporteur, Vitaly Homutinnik. A motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure is put to the vote. [[16:22:58]] For 217 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Finance, Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The point is that part of the first article of the Ukrainian Act "On first-line measures to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis and to make changes to certain legislative acts of Ukraine" it is established that the State in the person of the Ministry of Finance can participate in the formation and or increase of statutory capitals of banks, through the acquisition of primary issue shares. Or a portion of the statutory capital of the bank or the shares of the additional issue, additional deposits of banks in exchange for the government bonds of Ukraine and or the acquisition of the listed shares at the expense of the state budget of Ukraine. Such government bonds by Ukraine are subject to a mandatory redemption by the National Bank of Ukraine, including credits for the appropriate designation of international financial organizations at their nominal value within five days of the arrival of the offer for their redemption. In accordance with the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, Ukraine has undertaken to abolish the law’s mandatory redemption of bonds issued for the purpose of capitalizing banks at their nominal cost. Therefore, the government has prepared a corresponding bill that deals exclusively with the positions listed. Asking him to support himself as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u27	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Vitaly Yuriovich. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u28	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, thoroughly reported on the bill. I'm the only one I'd like to add. That during 2008-2011, in order to increase the formation of statutory capital of banks, domestic government loans totalled 47 billion dollars. At the same time, the National Bank paid off the bonds of domestic government loans issued to increase the statutory capital of banks by a total of 40 billion dollars. That's 86 percent of their total output. The National Bank of Ukraine's repurchase of securities issued by the government for the purpose of bank capitalisation reduces the effectiveness of the National Bank's monetary and credit market management activities. In particular, monetaryization by the National Bank of Securities leads to the issuance of money, which in turn is not justified by the need for monetary regulation and forces the National Bank of Ukraine to carry out mobilization operations in appropriate amounts. It should be noted that the cancellation of the obligation to redeem the National Bank of Ukraine is one of the requirements of the International Monetary Fund, as set out in the draft letter of intent agreed by the Ukrainian party to the IMF, as a result of the second review of the stand-by programme. We have considered this project on the committee and the committee recommends the adoption of this law in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a discussion. Please sign in. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to tell you what I'm talking about. Well, first of all, I don't think we should all be looking at bills that, at the request of the International Monetary Fund, we should consider, probably at the expense of our Ukrainian realities. This bill in such an editorial form, in such an incomplete way, is making investor protection worse, improving customer rights, and putting financial institutions in unequal conditions. To answer that question, I would like to recall evolution. According to article 32 of the current norm, statutory capitals of banks should be formed solely by monetary contributions, that is, by living money. In 2008, the anti - crisis law introduced a temporary standard that formed statutory capitals, not money, but formed as bonds of the Cabinet of Ministers that were obliged to buy the National Bank for five days. So the capital of the banks was real living. Now, this proposal suggests leaving the standard for statutory capital formation at the expense of bonds, that is, not living money. They don't make amends, so I think this rule is incomplete. So we have to agree to the second reading that the National Bank should not buy out. It's really interfering with the central bank's independence. That's the norm. But we must bring this thought to its end. The statutory capital of banks should be formed exclusively with money. And the Cabinet of Ministers in the Ministry of Finance must also make an exclusive contribution. So the second reading we have to bring this rule into line and remove the exchange of government bonds into statutory bank capital. Please do not vote in general. Because this rule is incomplete, is unfair, and violates the rights of competitors. The second reading can be settled. So please support me in the first reading. And we're going to get to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u31	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u32	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. We will support this draft law on first reading. But the fact is that Arzhvitin is really right in drawing attention to the situation that lies in our banking system. Today, we know that very many Ukrainian citizens depend in fact on the extent to which the work of banks is guaranteed. And not just citizens. The collapse of the Bank of Ukraine. In fact, not only individual contributions but also contributions from legal entities, enterprises, including government, have been lost in the bank. Recently there was, in fact, a bank in the city of Harikov on the verge of bankruptcy. Where in fact disappeared, 20 million urban budget resources will not be recovered. It is therefore important to consider what guarantees banks should provide not only to investors but also to the State. Because those people who take over the banking business have to be held accountable in fact. Of course, no paper can guarantee the stable functioning of such a serious financial institution as the bank is. Real money must, of course, be a guarantee of stability. The only question is where to take this money. That's why I'm talking again. We Communists have repeatedly called attention to the need to increase the income of citizens. Because it is the citizens who are serious investors, including in the banking system. That's why we're talking again, we need to raise wages, we need to raise citizens' incomes. We need to revive the economy and make the banking system really more transparent so that people invest their money there are confident that they will receive it from there. Therefore, the bill can of course be adopted on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act "On first-hand measures to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis and to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine". [[on the redemption of bonds]] [[16:31:55]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee has also offered to accept it as a whole, but there is a denial, so I am voting on the proposal to prepare for the second reading on a reduced procedure, please. [[16:32:27]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies, you have been given attention, please, to the draft Order amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization". It is suggested that the honourable colleagues choose Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna as the first deputy to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for freedom of speech and information, and Kirička Alexandre Eduardo Eduardoovich to elect a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for science and education by releasing him from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of industrial, regulatory policy and entrepreneurship. The committee recommends that this be accepted. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u34	What, what? Do you have a question before you decide? So I propose, fellow officials, at the first point where to choose Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna, the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information, to put a dot and not to write any further, freeing a member of the committee. She's a member of the committee. That's what you wanted, isn't it? Then we have a thought together, thank you. Dear colleagues, there's no need to report? I'm putting to the vote a motion for a draft order, the title of the order I've already made, my honourable colleagues. [[Registration number 8535]] Please vote. [[16:34:25]] For 230 Decision taken. I welcome both Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna and Kirichko Eduard Alexanderovich to the fact that they have the opportunity to work on responsible committees like all of us, we have the committees responsible, however. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. [[on the increase of the age of entry into higher military educational institutions]] [[Registration number 8141]] Taking your unanimous proposal into account, I am voting on the issue of a reduced procedure. [[16:35:15.]] For 212 Decision taken. The reporter is Kouzmuk Alexander Ivanovich. The Coroner is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Gricenko Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u35	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Honorary Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence, on 11 May, discussed a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. This bill is designed to regulate the necessary education for sergeants and senior officers who are engaged in military service on a contract basis. The draft amendments to article 20 of the Law on Military Duty and Military Service increase the age from 23 years to 30 years of age, to which the category of military personnel mentioned will have the right to enter higher educational institutions or military departments of higher education institutions that train staff in the sergeant’s and senior staff. After counting with such military personnel, a new contract for military service in the positions of trainees is envisaged. I would like to point out that this is not just an initiative of a individual MP or a professional committee, it has been a long work for 2 years, a seminary, a collection of suggestions and wishes of those who associate their ministry with the Armed Forces as professionals. Costs related to the implementation of the draft law are planned to be spent within the framework of the funds provided for in the Ukrainian State Budget for the Ministry of Defence for the Reform and Development of the Armed Forces. The Ministry of Defense has supported such an initiative, and this is a step by our State to meet with regard to creating appropriate social conditions for the military service. Committee members recommend.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u36	Thank you. Alexander Ivanovich, thank you. Mr. Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich, head of the National Security and Defence Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u37	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Immediately, as the committee considered the bill twice, it was supported unanimously on both occasions by the committee's proposal to vote it both on the basis and on the whole at once. The wording has been verified quite clearly by the participation of lawyers. I myself held a conciliatory meeting with the Ministry of Defense of the General Staff. Fully supported by the government. And this document, in case of support, enables truly motivated soldiers, people who are already 27, 28, 29 years of age to receive an education at the level of a younger specialist and more effectively with knowledge of the matter to carry out their service duties. On behalf of the committee, please vote on it as a basis and as a whole, if there is no objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service to increase the age of entry into higher military educational institutions. Please vote. [[16:39:24]] For 289 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is no objection to supporting the committee's proposal and accepting this project as a law? I'm betting on a motion to adopt the draft law as a law. [[Registration number 8141]] Please vote. [[16:39:58]] For 291 The law is passed. Thank you. The factions? Please. Region Party – 179, "BUT – "Fatherhood" – 30, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 13, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the 2011 Memorial and Jubilee Regulations. [[Registration number 8122]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[16:40:45.]] For 211 Decision taken. Thank you. The reporter is Vladimir Ivanovich Landik. The reporter is Mikhailo Vasilovich Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u39	Your Honor, distinguished national MPs! The tradition of adopting Supreme Council decrees on commemorative dates and Jubilee in 2008 and 2009 was a major step in the generalization of the Jubilee of outstanding persons and memorable dates of history. This approach to the creation of a single annual register of commemorative dates and Jubilee creates comfortable conditions for the use of power and society in general to mark these events at a national level. At the same time, the draft decision prepared by the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, unfortunately, does not fully reflect the diversity of the spiritual and historical memory of the Ukrainian people. To align this situation with the goal of completing a list of memorial dates and Jubilee to be celebrated at the national level, we offer to consider an alternative draft of the Supreme Council Regulation, which is in agreement with all the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft Decision sets out a list of the most important events in the social and political life of Ukraine and the Jubilee of eminent persons, which should be marked at the national level in 2011. The adoption of a decree will free the Supreme Council from the duplication of a large number of decisions based on specific events and individuals. It is also proposed to exclude from the appendix to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the memorable dates and Jubilee that have passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u40	Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u41	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, honourable fellow MPs, the question that we are considering belongs to, well, I would say, the most scandalous issues that are being considered here in the Supreme Council. The fact is that it is our decision that the Committee on Culture and Spirituality itself has the responsibility of its professional to deal with this issue and we have reported it three times, but you have not voted for it, what is now proposed by Deputy Landik is a sumble. First, there's no historical sequence, there's no argument. Well, look at what's proposed next year to celebrate 180 years from the first edition of Gogol's "Evening at the Gypsies." I have no doubt that "The Nights at the Gypsies" we've all read with you and we like them immensely. But there's no 360 years in this project since the Battle of Bogdan Hmelnicky under Berestek; there's no 150 years since the release of "Cobzar" Shevchenk. We're doing "The Night at the Gypsies" and "The Cobzar" of Shevchenka, which has become a world phenomenon, is not in this project. I think it is. I don't have time, it's absurd, you don't have to vote for this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Ruslan Knazevitch, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u43	I ask you to give Karpuk Volodymyr Georgiyovich the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u44	Carpuk Vladimir, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u45	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, for some reason in this room, it would seem that the bill, such as marking outstanding events in one year or another, is taking up very intense discussions. And at least in July of last year, I was proposing such a bill, which was broader with historical dates, with names, it wasn't even included in the agenda at the request of a Communist faction. There was a bill drawn up by the Committee on Culture and Spirituality that seemed to have absorbed all the diversity, the entire palette of historical dates, and systematically, as Vladimir Ivanovich said. So if you take that bill, it doesn't reflect the whole spectrum. And this is basically a compilation of previous drafts. I'm just going to point out that the first version given by the authors was the names for the anniversary of Eugene Kolovalz and Dmitri Klyczykovsky, or Klim Sagura. They didn't even see it, and Landik, Kilinkarov and others signed the bill. Then we found out what we had done. Now we've added some more Jubilee: 215 years since the first coal mining, the 60th anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian Peace Fund. [[Today, according to the Rules, this does not apply to the Jubilee dates.]] And that's how they formed a new bill. It seems to me that such bills should be prepared in advance, in the fall, so that we don't really waste the time of the Supreme Council. Let's let the government work systematically and find consensus. In the autumn of this year, we will be preparing for 2012. Because this year they went in such a way that they were individual.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u46	Paul Mokchan, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u47	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm talking to Mr. Karpuk and my friend Mikhail Vasilovich Kosiv. The thing is, if we don't, today we don't vote, we don't support Landik's bill, we're going to have constant problems. It's been six months. For six months, we have made a statement on a teaspoon about what needed to be done last year at the end. But why? Because we have not found that consensus, that balance, and those political dates and figures that are important to all political forces. And I think today we have an option that we can then fill in each of the dates we've already missed, whether it's 150 years at the funeral of Shevchenk, or the publication of Cobzar, or the other dates that have been mentioned and not mentioned. But our group will definitely support this project today. Because without that, we'll always be late. Six months have passed, and we will celebrate what has passed. Ladies and gentlemen, think of tomorrow. Think about how we can help the state in places, especially where we are called to the committee, please support any offer. At last it's all systematized, someone says it's complicated, but it's all compiled, you take the national calendar and you see all of these dates and someone compiles, and then one character comes out on the platform and says, "I suggest you do it." And he's interested because he's always the hero of a one-day parliament. Thank you. I think we need to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u48	Lemza, the Faction "BUT" is the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u49	Please pass the word Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u50	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, I tend to take the approach that would give us the opportunity, in fact, to quietly seek compromises and unifications, as we did in voting for Dragoman's Jubilee, the Forest of Ukraine, when there were 390 or 350 votes in the session room. And here you have to find some principles, the significance of the date, the importance of the date, the acceptability of the date, and so on. Of course, it is desirable for those who care about humanitarian policy or the relevant committees to do so because then it is very difficult to explain the logic of this document, for example, to me. First. I think that's the problem with the previous decision, we're not using the potential of the Ukrainian language. In English, there is a celebration and a veneration. Now, as a Ukrainian, and as a person who knows a little Ukrainian history, I don't understand how to mark the beginning of a war, I don't understand how to mark the beginning of a mass shooting. It's an honor. Let's put it in a separate category, in a category of respect, or how to celebrate or celebrate an accident, which means the category of honor and the category of marking. Now for the second question. Here I hold two decrees, a previous decision that is not supported, and one that is supported. And I'm looking at what's off. For example, 90 years old Lucenka Dmitry Omelanovic. We don't like "Kiev, my God!'who's everybody singing, we grey, we've got the greatest of his songs, don't you like the way he wrote? Why did we expel Lucenk? Which is why we ruled out Nicholas Voronoga, who made the best, most brilliant translation of Marcelea into the Ukrainian language that all revolutionaries sang in 1917 and the first verse of the Hymn of France. I don't understand. Eugène Chikalenka, who published half a million copies of how to run agriculture in Ukraine and for his money, has built and published dozens of books. So I didn't see the logic of the bill. So, friends, as compromise might be, let's take the basis and sit down and think about it. Because the right and the right are saying that one document would want to systemize everything, but the right ones and I are, including, there's still no systemic approach here that would adequately evaluate 2011.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u52	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u53	I'd like to give it to Vladimir Ivanovich Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u54	Vladimir Ivanovich Landik, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u55	Thank you. You know, after me from the rostrum, our colleague said that maybe three times he was admitted. No, I'll make it clear, they took five times, and they never took it. So it turns out that someone is based on one single date, and I can tell a second college guy who was speaking after that, what he said was so much by the authors. And the authors are already down, because all the principles and who doesn't want to be erased by another faction from this list, he took his name. But once again, as I said in the rostrum, this is a compromise decision of the Supreme Council. We gave it to all the factions, we got all the suggestions from you, and then we gave it all to you again, and we drew it, and we drew it, and we added it all up. But by this time we had missed both the 50th year of Gagarin's first flight, and the 25th year of Chernobyl, we had already missed the 170th year of Alchevsky's and the 100th year of Roy's Faith. So let's accept it, and then we can add everything to it, clean it up, but it has to be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, who else insists? Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for some time, if I am not mistaken, over the past three years the Supreme Council has constantly been forced to adopt legal acts in such a way as to mark Jubilee dates and commemorative dates. What is needed today is that most colleagues do not have doubts. But in doing so, I think we should not limit ourselves to accepting this decision. After all, this is just a list of memorable and Jubilee dates. And specific arrangements for the implementation of certain memorable dates can be laid out in documents submitted by people who, at a regional level, first developed an idea. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u58	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u59	..so Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I don't think we can do that today after the adoption, I think that this draft decision will be adopted, take away such a possibility from the National Deputies to make specific draft decrees on the marking of those or other Jubilees. This is an example of today's draft decision by our colleague Ephraim to commemorate the Jubilee of the Young Guard. It's the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Let me give you a few words on this. Like everyone else, I took a close look at these suggestions. And I can see that by making such a decision, we are downplaying the role of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the importance of the decisions taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to approach, as I can see, individually and make a decision comprehensively. By doing so, confirming his attitude toward a given date, one or the other. And this is the Supreme Council turning into a calendar setup. That's the first one. Oh, that's different. I understand we've been looking for a compromise between factions, but that doesn't mean we've covered all the dates. This means that we are, in fact, rebuffing the possibility of making other decisions and considering other dates. Believe me, this year does not run out of historical dates, except for those positions that are fixed here. But you make a decision, and that's why I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2011. [[Registration number 8122]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:57:13]] For 229 We accepted the bill as a basis. Since there is a denial that we have accepted it as a whole, please work on it. Ladies and gentlemen, I bring to your attention the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities. [[on the alignment of the period of verification of citizens in relation to their admission to State secrecy]] [[Registration number 8179]] We've discussed it, it's a question, respected colleagues, and we've all supported it. I'll put it to a vote. If there is no objection, we can vote it immediately. We actually talked about it, that's the question. Is there no objection? We discussed it yesterday, dear colleagues. I'm voting on the proposal. Is there no objection to accepting as law? None. I'm betting on a motion to adopt a draft law on the basis and in general. [[Registration number 8179]] Please vote. [[16:58:35]] For 297 The law is passed. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for the consideration of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine. [[on the settlement of the order of appeal or cassation]] [[Registration number 6120]] There's a brief motion, I'll put it to the vote. [[16:59:14]] For 223 Decision taken. The reporter is Dmitry Mikitovich Pritica, co-reporter Julia Volodymyrovna Ljovčina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u61	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice aims to initiate appeals or appeals pending their hearing by the Court of Appeal and the Court of Cassation, and to establish an order for such appeal. [[on the settlement of the order of appeal or cassation]] Articles 193 and 218 of the Code of Administrative Justice provide for the possibility of refusing an appeal or a cassation of an appeal only during appeal or cassation. And the possibility of appealing the complaint to the discovery of such conduct is not foreseen at all. The absence of a legal solution to the appeal or cassation procedure prior to its hearing by these courts significantly restricts the rights of the parties to the administrative process and has a very negative impact on the work of the judges, since the order of action in these cases is not procedurally regulated. In this regard, it is suggested that the procedure for withdrawing these complaints should be the same as that set out in articles 300, 330 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. In order to achieve this objective, the project proposes to amend articles 193 and 218 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality by modifying the articles mentioned in the SASU, by setting up an order for appeal or appeal by the person who filed the complaint before its hearing. In this appeal or cassation appeal, the person who filed the appeal does not have the right to file the appeal again from other grounds before the expiry of the appeal. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for the foundation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u62	Yes. Coroner, head of the Justice Committee's Subcommittee, Julia Volodymyrovn Ljovckin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u63	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered at its meeting on December 1, 2010, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality, issued by Deputy Pritika. The author has already detailed the purpose of the bill, so I will not be distracted by this issue. I will note that the committee believes that the adoption of this bill will have a positive impact on the efficiency of administrative justice and will enable citizens to exercise their constitutional and procedural rights more widely when they are brought before an administrative court. The Supreme Administrative Court supports the adoption of this bill. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the draft law be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. After considering the bill for expert conclusions, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? You don't? Nobody insists? I then put to the vote a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice to regulate the procedure for appeal or appeal. Please vote. [[17:03:11]] For 275 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, [[on the use of judicial measures in the recognition and enforcement of decisions by a foreign court]] [[Registration number 6316]] I would like to vote on the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:03:48]] For 204 Decision taken. The reporter is Valerius Anatolyevich Bondik. The focal point is Julia Volodymyrovna Ljovczyna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u65	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! This bill was considered by our committee. It is intended to provide procedural means of enforcing a foreign court’s decision. Why? Because Ukraine is a party and has signed a number of international treaties, including conventions. And according to the convention, she is obliged to guarantee in her territory the execution of a court decision, any court, even a foreign, arbitral or any other, which is allowed justice in these matters. Well, except for the special courts. Thus, there is some disagreement between the Civil Procedure Code, article 152 of the Civil Procedures Act, and the execution of the decision, there are 300, I do not remember what article of the Civil Procedure Code. But sometimes when there is a court decision, and at this stage the party does not file a lawsuit, and when the court executioner is already in the process of executing a court decision, there is no property. And for the borrower's inadvertent actions, all the property and even all the assets are taken out of custody. Thus, a short bill is proposed to reconcile these issues with procedural ones. It's really fragmented. I'm in favour of changing civil-process legislation as well. But it's going to be a turn, just as it's going to go into the Criminal Procedure Code. Thus, I would like to support this bill, because it is essentially legal and aimed at ensuring the right of enforcement of the court's decision and the imposition of arrests on the execution of the court's decision at the stage of the execution of the court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u66	Yes, thank you, too. Head of the Committee on Justice, Ljovczyn Ulya Volodymyrna. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u67	The Committee on Justice considered at its meeting on 22 December 2010 the draft Ukrainian Law on Change in the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, submitted by the National Deputy Bondik. [[on the use of judicial measures in the recognition and enforcement of decisions of a foreign court]] The bill is designed to ensure the rights and interests of those who seek judicial approval and enforcement of a foreign court’s decision. It should be noted that despite reasonable suggestions, there are a large number of comments to this bill. The law enforcement and recognition and enforcement institutions of a foreign court in Ukraine have different legal backgrounds, and their mechanisms cannot be combined. Amendments to article 394 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Ukraine should also provide for the possibility of filing an application for enforcement measures not only directly in the matter but also at other stages of the consideration of the matter, as provided for in article 151 of the Code. Other comments also came to the bill. The Supreme Court of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice, taking into account the existence in one document of two different content and terms of the proceedings, consider it appropriate to shorten the terms of the hearing by the court for granting consent to enforce the decision of a foreign court in Ukraine. There were also observations from many scientific institutions. The main scientific and expert office has made some observations and recommends that the first reading of the draft law be adopted as a basis. In the light of what has been said, the committee considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u68	Yes, dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Is it? Sign up, please, if there is. May I see the names of the national MPs? There is no one who wants to talk. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft law (registration number 6316). Please vote. [[17:08:41]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two factions call for a recess. Ready to make a statement. Please. Natalia Royal, please. These are two factions: "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", "BUT is the Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u69	Dear colleagues here today, under the walls of the Supreme Council, there was an all-Ukrainian protest, an all-Ukrainian action "Go!" And of course, the participants were very upset that the majority in Parliament did not even delegate their representatives, they didn't even want to hear and understand the demands that people came to you today. They didn't even care about people's concerns and why they came from all regions of Ukraine today, gathered here and addressed you. I was asked to read out to the Ukrainian people's deputies from the U.S. All-U. campaign "Go!".. I read from the person who said, "We, the representatives of more than 200 social organizations and trade unions, are the ones who participated in the development of the People's Reform legislative package, we, the organizers and participants in the All-Ukrainian civil action "Go ahead!" and the spring march of protest, we address you as a people to our electorate, whom we have delegated to Parliament to represent our interests, the interests of our people. Today, the Supreme Council takes decisions virtually without consideration that destroy the Ukrainian economy, such as the Tax Code. At the same time, the draft legislation prepared at the initiative of civil society is ignored. According to sociological questions, the main thing people are experiencing today is fear and uncertainty in tomorrow. Deputies, in your power to stop the economic collapse, the extinction of entrepreneurship and the total impoverishment of people. We demand that you stop the social experiments on the people of Ukraine. We need to make real reforms, not the experiments you're doing above us. We demand the realization of the principles of economic freedom in Ukraine by adopting a declaration of economic freedom, reviewing the subsistence minimum and ensuring that every Ukrainian is entitled to a decent standard of living, strengthening the responsibility of officials, amending the Tax Code on a simplified system, eliminating the tax police, introducing a moratorium on monitoring checks of entities by 1 January 2012, increasing the minimum level of retirement, freeing from the payment of a single social contribution by pensioners and persons with disabilities, establishing a temporary investigation commission to investigate the causes of price increases, introducing a moratorium on the growth of public tariffs, putting into effect the declarant principle and the principle of tacit consent, halting the persecution of taxpayers of Maidan, ensuring the transparency of preventing corruption, creating equal conditions for participation in the competition of private carriers, and effectively ensuring the personal responsibility of the controlling authorities and authorities. Entrepreneurs are outraged that the bills passed by the Cabinet of Ministers do not open on the Supreme Council today under a simplified tax system, and ask you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to take a personal look at what happened to these bills and why the site is now blocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u70	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u71	We do not require anything excessive, simply protecting our right to a decent life and honest work is guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine.” Participants in the spring march, delegates to the Second People's Council of the All-Ukrainian Civil Action "Go!".. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u72	I'm asking you to look at the secretariat and prepare information that's for the statement that you can't go to the Supreme Council website and look at the relevant documents and provide information. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is under review. [[on the order of prosecution of decisions of the inquiry body, investigator, prosecutor of a criminal offence]] [[Registration number 6501]] I'll bet you a vote on your proposal, your esteemed colleagues, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:13:26]] For 216 Decision taken. The reporter is Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik. The focal point is Julia Volodymyrovna Ljovczyna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! On 14 December 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which provides for an indictment before the Court of Justice of the Criminal Procedure Order. The adopted amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine in its individual positions go against the constitutional principles of judiciality ratified by Ukraine by international agreements and article 16 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides for the delimitation of such two functions: the court's decision and the indictment which relies on the prosecutor and the execution of their various functions. [[Articles 6, 124, 129 of the Constitution]] [[in some cases, the victim or his representative]] the subject. With regard to the possibility of a court ruling denying a criminal case, the competition in criminal proceedings in public and private public prosecutions provides that a violation of or refusal to prosecute, the formation of charges, its support to the court is ensured by the entities referred to in article 4 of the CPC: the prosecutor, the investigator, the authorities and their officials. The imposition of an obligation on the court in one form or another to replace the activities of these organs and persons in the exercise of the functions of the charge violates the principle of the division of State authority over the legislative, executive and court, and prevents the improper, objective and comprehensive exercise of justice by the court, as required by the Constitution and the rules ratified by Ukraine. There are many comments before this bill, including the ministries of profile and authority. There's a note from the Chief Executive. And there is also a note by the Supreme Council Committee on Justice. And I believe to a large extent that they are well-founded. And so I'm going to ask you to bring it back to work again in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u74	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u75	return to work again on the first reading to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u76	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Justice, Ljovczyn Ulya Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u77	On December 22, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on Justice considered a bill introduced by the national deputy Olijnik to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code to improve the procedure for the prosecution of decisions of the authorities of inquiry, the prosecutor for criminal offences. The project proposes to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code to ensure that complaints about criminal offences are addressed in strict compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution, while at the same time removing artificial obstacles to the activities of law enforcement agencies in the fight against crime. We agree with the need to improve the court's prosecution of criminal cases, but it should be noted that the bill is not exactly the same as that set out in the comparative table. In addition, the bill has received a great deal of attention from professional authorities. The Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in their conclusions, insist on the need to finalize the bill. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes that the draft law be returned to the author for further work on the first reading. It should also be noted that a new edition of the Criminal Procedure Code is under way. In view of the foregoing, the Committee on Justice decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal and conclusion both by the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration, and by the Committee, and the author agrees with him that he should return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. So I don't think we need to discuss this. I'll be right there. Ivan Verni Dubov, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u79	Yeah. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, on the first reading, to adopt this bill, because it's very necessary, it's already perhaps too late. We're too late to discuss it. And I'm going to say that in addition to the second reading, we're going to be able to solve the flaws that there really are. Because, in recent times, lobby laws have been passed under the form of democratization and humanization of criminal court legislation, which will bind investigations on the hands and feet. And this bill is just an exception to that and allows us to distinguish, in fact, the functions of the case in fact and the functions of the charge. I call on all the MPs to support the bill in the first reading and to work on it for the second. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u80	Dear national deputies, then we will walk as required by the Rules. I'm voting on the first proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. [[Registration number 6501]] If the Supreme Council does not support it, then we will vote on the second proposal: acceptance as a basis. Please. [[17:19:38]] For-27 The decision is not supported. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[17:20:01]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine concerning the deposit of a copy of a criminal offence order against persons whose interests relate to a criminal case, which has been violated by the fact that a crime has been committed. [[Registration number 6709]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:20:41]] For 218. Decision taken. Reporter: Savchenko Igor Vasilovich. The correspondent is Oliynik Svetoslav Vasilovich. Reporter. Please, Sveslav Vasilovich. Head of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, the drafter of the bill is proposed by the national MP, Savichenk, to amend article 98, marked "2" of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. He suggests that the Criminal Procedure Code should be supplemented by a rule that a criminal offence order should be issued not only as required today by legislation, but also by a person whose criminal case has been violated, but also by a person whose rights have been or have been suppressed by a criminal offence. The text of the proposed bill is not ideal in terms of norm-setting, but the very idea supported by the Committee on Justice, and according to the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is recommended that the bill be adopted as a basis for further work in preparation for the second reading. In fact, I ask my colleagues to support the proposed bill and prepare for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, no objection to putting a committee proposal to the vote? Is there no objection? I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to hand over a copy of a criminal offence order to persons whose interests relate to a criminal case violated by the fact that a crime has been committed. [[17:22:50]] For-80 The decision is not taken. What are some suggestions? Please, Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u83	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know why this initiative, which was supported by the committee, is not being supported right now. The thing is, there are now massive criminal cases, so-called facts, that can affect any citizen today. And this is an essential way of influencing citizens' rights and freedoms. And it's a slow, actual creation of conditions to prevent citizens from defending their rights because they will deliberately write that you are not being violated, but, in fact, you can't complain about it at all. And that's what people are complaining about today, especially when the raiders' passions that come with the help of the law enforcement agencies are being rekindled right now as the clans' divisions are increasing. Because of that decree, she's smart. The Olinick national deputy correctly said that it was not an impeccable formula. It really is. But in that case, let's not lose the bill, or we can send it back to re-reading, or we can go back to that, maybe. That's my offer. Let us return, otherwise the selectiveness of justice will continue to be a violation of human rights, and Ukraine will continue to deteriorate to fall to the very last place in the world after the violation of human rights. I don't think Ukraine is worthy of it, and we don't have with you as representatives of the Ukrainian people to support such things. Let's listen to the legislative proposal and at least give it a chance to rework it a little bit, because it's essentially absolutely true. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and I ask you to vote so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, since the committee has considered, it makes no sense to return to the committee. There's an offer, I'll put it to a vote. Please take off the vote. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u85	Yuri Anatolyevich, as he always wisely and rightly said, would have to return to this law. We will definitely return on 1 September, there is no doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u86	I am voting for the return of the draft law to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[17:25:35]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, I propose to you the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Access to Decisions. [[on individual matters of keeping the Register]] I have a brief motion for a vote to consider this bill. The rapporteur is Mr. Dmitry Yuriovich Sphenov, head of the Committee on Justice. [[17:26:10]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u87	The bill was introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputy, Vadim Koleznichenko, on 17 November last year and was considered at a meeting of the Committee on Justice on 12 January 2011. The bill proposes two amendments to article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on Access to Judgments. The first concerns the elimination of conflicts between the provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure and the above-mentioned law. Article 121 of the Code of Criminal Procedure refers to the inadmissibility of divulging pre-trial investigation data, which can only be disclosed with the permission of an investigator or prosecutor and to the extent that they are deemed possible. However, article 3 of the Law on Access to Judicial Decisions provides that all decisions of courts of general jurisdiction shall be included in the register. However, in accordance with the procedure for the introduction of the register of electronic copies of judgements, it shall be sent to the registry no later than the day following the date of issue. In order to prevent the disclosure of pre-trial investigation data, it is proposed that the law be supplemented by a provision that the decision of the courts to carry out individual investigations or prompt investigations is included in the register after the completion of investigations. Second proposal by the author of the bill: To transfer the right of approval of the registry from the Cabinet of Ministers of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine as a body that will ensure the maintenance of the register. Conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office: The bill is rejected. Nor does the bill support the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. On the contrary, the bill is supported by the Ministry of the Interior, the Attorney-General's Office, the State Judicial Administration, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Supreme Economic Court, the Institute of Law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Academy of Law and the Odessa National Legal Academy. Their comments and suggestions may be taken into account in finalizing the second reading bill. The Committee on Justice, at its meeting, decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis for first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u88	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, who insists on discussing the matter? Yuri Carmazin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u89	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very difficult bill. I would like to draw your attention in general to the fact that we are now forcing the judges to put everything into the Single State Register of Judgments, as if well. But it takes time for the judges to kill there and every approval, every determination. Think, how much time, how much government money do we just spend like that? It's a colossal cost, nobody wants to see it. We create a climate of inability for judges to work properly. This too needs to be taken into account. And the fact that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration of the project, which has a total of 8 terms, is the changes to article 3, "One State Register of Judgments", to part three of article 3 and part four, i.e. up to eight terms, the Scientific and Experimental Authority has written its comments on three sheets with a general conclusion: this project should be rejected, it says, obviously, it doesn't need to be taken early. Because it's in this project that the court's decision to carry out individual investigations is even made in the register or in the search. I think that today will make it even more difficult for judges to access justice. Obviously, he needs to be sent back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Access to Judgments. [[on individual matters of keeping the Register]] [[17:31:12]] For-44 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further processing. [[17:31:34]] For 231 Decision taken. I'm announcing a draft decree marking the 70th anniversary of Bogdar Kotorovich's birth. Ladies and gentlemen, let's address this issue in a simplified manner. Is there no objection? Then I put this proposal to the vote. [[17:32:11]] For 216 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, we have just adopted the Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2011. A date like the '70s genius, I repeat, the genius violinist Bogoslav Kotorovich is not on this list. Meanwhile, this violinist, a brilliant violinist, was not only an outstanding performer, but he founded a modern - day Ukrainian violin school. You can imagine, in the world, there's absolutely one unit of people, in violin art, who would be the founders of their own personal school. And also, of course, he was also the head of the Kyiv Conservatory pulpit, and a member of the Academy of Arts correspondent, and a laureate, and a permanent member of the jury of the most famous international violin competitions. I don't know if any of you had the opportunity to listen to the works of Bogdar Kotorovich, but I had one of those, so I was lucky to be present at his concerts. And so when it comes to the music art of Ukraine, I'm obviously saying that the more talented, and I'd say, the more brilliant performer and composer like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u92	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u93	Please support this proposal from our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, no objection? No one insists on the performances? I'm voting on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and in the entire draft Order marking the 70th anniversary of Bogdar Kotorovic's birth. [[Registration number 8380]] Please vote. [[17:35:19]] For 294 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, my colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Priority of Social Development of the Village and the Agricultural Complex in the People's Farms. [[on the granting to individual rural developers of state-owned credits]] [[Registration number 7209]] I'm betting on the vote to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:36:00]] For 226 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Marina Volodymyrna Perestenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u95	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You will be mindful of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Social Development of the Village and the Agricultural Complex in the People's Farm, as amended on 16 April 2009, introduced by the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Sulkovsky, Melnik, Leluk. [[on the granting to individual rural developers of state-owned credits]] Registration number 7209. After considering the bill at its meeting on 30 November 2010, the committee noted that it was called upon to allow rural people and farmers to receive guaranteed State support for the construction of individual housing. What, in turn, will contribute to the expansion of individual farms and the future development of rural areas by people who already work and want to work and live in the countryside in the future. However, the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Priority of Social Development of the Village and the Agricultural Complex in the National Economy. Which is contrary to the part of article 90 of the Supreme Council's Rules, which stipulates that the bill can only provide for amendments to the text of the original legislative act and not to the law amending that legislative act. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded the bill of 1.11.2010 that it is appropriate to reject it as a result of the first reading. At the same time, it must be noted that the questions raised by the drafters need urgent settlement. In view of the above, the committee decided to propose the return of the prescribed bill to the subject of the legislative initiative, as well as to the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u96	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u97	and to facilitate its immediate work and due process and registration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the new bill in the same direct manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who wants to address this issue? Please, Mikola Tomenko, and then Katerina Vaschuk. Yeah? Or someone?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, I want to support the position of the committee, because the idea of settling this issue, which I understand is proposed in the law, is declared, is not implemented properly in practice. But the initiators of the bill eventually made the situation worse. If we were to adopt this bill, we have in our Law on the Priority of Social Development of the Village that this is about building up the way in which we get the credit. The authors propose to withdraw this standard and propose on a general basis that a loan may be granted to them for confirmation of their payworthiness. So in fact, and the benefit that she made, which is real, she didn't make up her mind, that is, she didn't exactly give it. But at least the law has the benefit it needs. This credit is written down so that it can actually be used, in fact it is now eliminated and the authors are actually offered on general grounds, whether you live in a village, whether you're building something, or you're doing something, like taking credit, confirming your payability, and on general terms going to a commercial bank and his brothers. So I think this is a wrong approach. If there's a plan to help build in the countryside, we need to write down the conditions under which we can take such a positive loan so that people can build up, so that maybe some of the cities move to the village or in other circumstances we can stimulate active work and farmers, especially those who do and raise the economy in agriculture. I support the committee's position to send the authors to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u100	Catherine Vasuk, please, microphone, faction of the People's Party. 17:40:44p
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u101	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, really, the idea is very good. And the law that gave priority to the development of the village made specific points of support for social development. And the main thing is to help rural people in construction, because there is no housing for them from the state in Ukraine today. And it is very important to help families, usually young families, build up in the countryside, so they will live there, work there, and benefit. But as stated in this law, it is totally in agreement with a colleague named Tomenka, and it does not solve the situation, or perhaps make it worse. Consider the years when a separate tape was used to allocate funds for rural builders. And let's say it wasn't very high, but there were 50, 70 and 100 million dollars in the men's room. If we're going to improve the situation, we have to do this through a tape in the budget that provides either direct budget credit, or 100 percent or at least 75 percent, or 90 percent repayment of the value of loans for rural developers, it's going to be real. As for young families, especially young professionals, there is a long time to resolve issues that help young ones to live.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u102	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u103	. Young specialists who are so lacking in the village today, despite the fact that tens of thousands of specialists are being released, but they are not going to the village because there is nowhere to live, and there is no state support. To redraft the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u104	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u105	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I'm in solidarity with Catherine Timofievna, and we still need to strengthen the power of the state, with a separate line of funding for the lending of individual rural builders. You know, the Own House program has been running for many years, and during this time, rural builders could have bought housing, could have built housing, they could have run gasses and plumbing. And these costs need to be increased not only in the state budget but also in the local budgets. Because the multiplicative effect of the number of these costs is much more effective. This lending is done at 3 percent over 20 years. That is why it is essential to make decisions through the State Budget. Today's bill is an initiative that's kind of good, but first of all, it's not going to decide what the authors want. I'd like to draw attention to everyone else in Ukraine, first of all, the law enforcement agencies, because when we cut out from the State Budget, from the local budgets, we then treat it very specifically to whom. Example: Poltava. In the Poltava region, for lending money to people working in public authorities but living in a village, the head of the Poltava District Foundation is now being prosecuted for supporting individual housing in the countryside. I think it's wrong, because if the loan is given, let him be a civil servant, but he lives in a village and he's a rural citizen. That's the way it should be treated.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u106	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. The Committee's conclusion is to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The conclusion of the Chief Research Administration is to reject the bill. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 7209]] Based on the base. [[17:46:04]] For-26 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[17:46:25]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we should now consider draft Law registration number 2066. At the same time, the author of the bill, Igor Rybakov, wrote with a letter of content that he withdrew the bill and asked to be removed. I am voting on the motion to withdraw from the draft Law registration number 2066: to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the National Manufacturer from Dempping Imports. [[on the procedure of infringement of the anti-dumping procedure]] Please vote for the withdrawal. [[17:47:18]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Individual Offences. [[Registration number 7483]] I'm betting on the voting proposal that just said: consideration of the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. And at the same time, my dear colleagues, I announce an extension of the evening session for 15 minutes. [[17:47:53]] For 238. Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we'll finish all the questions early, then. The reporter is Bevz Valeriy Ananiyovich. The correspondent is Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u107	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences to increase responsibility for individual offences. [[No. 7483]] They propose amendments to the eight articles of the Code on Administrative Offences, which deal with administrative responsibility for the acquisition, storage and use of firearms, guns for the firing of rubber bullets, as well as active defences such as world and noise grenades, shockers, handcuffs, tear gas, and so forth. The main scientific and expert office made one single observation, referring to the fact that in 1992 the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruled that the items were removed from free circulation. And so the conclusion is that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, once such objects are removed from circulation, does not need to predict the appropriate responsibility. But, honourable colleagues, given the fact that today you can buy not only an electric shocker on the Internet, but also a reactive installation, I think that's how we're supposed to support this bill today. By the way, I'd like to report that in our country today, we have 78,000 firearms, 60 full weapons, today we have 160,000 guns to shoot with rubber bullets. In our country, 30 people were killed in 2010 and 35 were injured by fire. So I'd like to ask you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u108	Head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Jury Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u109	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues are present! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement, reviewed by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Beváz Valérie Ananiyovic, a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences, to increase responsibility for individual offences. The bill proposes to strengthen administrative responsibility for violations of the rules and procedures of active defence designed to harm a person or cause him to be shocked by amending articles 174, 190, 191, two, three, 94 and 95, and 265 of the Code of Administrative Offences with a view to strengthening the impact of society on the lawfulness of offenders. If we take this problem in general, we know, including what happened recently in Lviv, when a traumatic weapon was used, and what was the result. Therefore, the adoption of this law will help to prevent new offences, raise the level of legal culture of citizens, strengthen the rule of law and educate citizens in the spirit, of course, by perpetuating the requirements of effective legislation. After reviewing the bill, the committee considers it possible to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on its first reading as a basis. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u110	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, who insists on discussing the matter? Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u111	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Now I want to talk about what I saw and analyzed the conclusion of the Science-Expert Authority. They came to the conclusion that this project was meant to be rejected, and I'm once again focusing on the leadership of the Supreme Council for a completely indisputable conclusion on this bill, a completely unqualified conclusion. And I would like to thank the national deputy Behvizza for the complexity of the solution to this problem that he has just proposed. He suggested making changes to article 174, 190, 191, 192, 194, 195, 265 of the Code of Administrative Offences, even though we are approaching a complex solution to these problems. And he predicted that the responsibility would be both for removing ammunition from devices and for similar metal shells from non-lethal operations, and all the other things that were foreseen, including the violation of the order of storage, including the reward weapon, raised questions about the violation of the employees' responsibility and introduced responsibility for violating the special means of commerce. One thing I don't agree with is what he said in his speech that you can buy a jet in Ukraine. No, it's not. And not because it's hard to buy, they're not just armed. Now that we've voted in favour of a reduction of another 8,000, we'll have no one to serve that technique quickly, and that's a terrible problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u112	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u113	Dear friends, I'd like to ask you to support this bill, it's extremely well written, you can just accept it right away in the first and second readings as a whole. It's just that I can assure you that it's extremely serious, and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, I'd like to at least have Mr. Bordenyuk at least for such a completely unqualified conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. Jury Anatolyovich Karmazin has already said about the conclusion of the Chief Research Administration. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Individual Offences. [[Registration number 7483]] [[17:55:38]] For-44 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[17:56:01]] For 267 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, on the draft Law on Jury Executives. [[Registration number 5151]] The author wrote: "Please postpone consideration of the draft Law on Jury Executives to another plenary week due to the need to reconcile positions." Is there no objection? We're not voting? No, it's not. Thank you. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Law amending the Criminal Procedure Code also applies. [[on the status of the suspect]] Registration number 7235, I remind you again. Again, the author asks for a postponement of consideration of the bill. Is there no objection? Let's put it down. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending article 328 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the right to a cassation charge]] [[Registration number 5371]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:57:24]] For 208 Decision taken. The reporter is the head of the Justice Committee's Subcommittee, Julia Volodymyrovn Ljovczyn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u115	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meeting on 12 January 2011 reviewed the draft Act amending article 328 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the right to a cassation charge]] The bill is designed to ensure that persons who take part in the case and those who do not take part in the case are entitled to a court’s decision on their rights, freedoms, or duties. The Supreme Court of Ukraine considers that the bill is not acceptable because it contains legally unfounded proposals and does not establish an effective system of procedural filters and procedures for allowing a cassation complaint to be considered by the court of the cassation. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, the scientific experts of the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Odessa National Law Academy, the Kyiv National University of T.H. Shevchenka, the Academy of Legal Sciences, agree on the need to improve the practice of protecting the rights of the parties to the trial to appeal the court's decision and support the bill. The main scientific and expert office recommends that, as a result of the first reading, the draft law be adopted as a basis. After considering the draft bill and the expert conclusions, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the bill to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who insists on discussing the matter? Yuri Carmazin, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u117	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention, although I don't know if they'll listen to the words here, to the essence of this bill. It's extremely simple. There's only four lines. It is proposed that article 328 of the Civil Procedure Code be amended, where paragraph 5 of Part Three is proposed to be deleted, and part four of the text reads as follows: ".the Judge-Rapporteur, by establishing that there is a misapplication of the rules of substantive law or a violation of procedural law, shall rule on the Approval for the opening of a case-by-case procedure, irrespective of the grounds for the complaint." This is the whole text of the law. What should a judge who has learned and sees that there is a violation do? Well, they're not justified, let's say. But it's already been studied, it's done. He's bound to stop, stop breaking the law. is committed. It's an official. And we say, "No, you don't." What does the Supreme Court say? He says, "Well, he's got a different approach." He says, "This question has to be decided by a college of judges." And for a college decision to be made, we need to accept it in our first reading and then write down what can be either a judge or a college to write down. Is that hard for us to do? Obviously, this is not difficult to do. Because of this, I would like to point out that our Institute for the Legislation of the Supreme Council wrote this. We support this proposal because it aims to increase the level of civil rights of the parties to the civil process by excluding clauses that can in practice deprive citizens of the right to appeal, and if approved by Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u118	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u119	Yes, the director-in-chief of the National Academy of Sciences, Kopilenko, writes: "If approved by Parliament, it will help to strengthen the legality and performance of judicial tasks." Because of this, because of the position of scientists, known scientists, I believe that, and went out to the rostrum to support these proposals in the first reading, and then worked on them. These suggestions by scientists are really serious and really correct. That's what I'm telling you as a legal practitioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u120	Dear colleagues! No one's insisting on the show anymore? No, it's not. I put to the vote the first sentence on the adoption of the draft Act amending article 328 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the right to a cassation charge]] [[Registration number 5371]] [[18:02:56]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending article 254 of the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine, [[on the acquisition of legal force by a judicial decision]] [[Registration number 7337]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[18:03:29]] For 216 Decision taken. The reporter is Pritica Dmitry Mikitovich. The focal point is Lvichkina Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u121	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In connection with the adoption on 7 July 2010 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Act on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges and its amendment to procedural legislation, which is called upon to improve and to improve the quality of the court proceedings, there is a need for specific provisions of the Code of Administrative Justice relating to the appeal of decisions of the administrative courts and the acquisition of legal power by them, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, the Master Procedure Code and the Criminal Procedure Code. This is primarily due to a change in the procedure for an appeal against the court of first instance, since the current rules of the Codes do not contain rules that provide for an appeal and a statement of intent to appeal a court decision. In connection with this bill number 7337, the authors proposed amendments to article 254 of the Code of Administrative Justice in Ukraine, which set out the order of legal force by the decision of the court of the first instance. According to the proposed drafting of part of this first article, the court acquires legal force after the expiry of the appeal period, not after the deadline for filing an appeal. According to article 186 of the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, an appeal is lodged against the court of first instance, not an appeal. Hence, it is suggested that part two of article 254 of this Codex should be deleted as having lost its relevance. The adoption of the bill will remove the gap in the decision-making of the legal force in administrative matters before the courts of the first institution. On behalf of the copyright team, please accept this bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u122	Thank you, too. Head of the Committee on Justice, Ljovczyn Ulya Volodymyrna. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u123	At its meeting on January 11, 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Justice reviewed the draft Law amending article 254 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice, which was submitted by the People’s Deputy of Pritika. The bill is designed to remove gaps that arise in the issue of the acquisition of legal force by the decision of the court of first instance in administrative jurisdiction. The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine supports the bill. There is no objection to his acceptance. The main scientific and expert office supports the changes proposed by the draft law and proposes to adopt the bill as a basis for consideration in the first reading. After considering the draft bill and the expert conclusions, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the first reading on the basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, who to discuss? Please, Yuri Carmazin. He's asking for a minute. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u125	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! There's absolutely no point in suggesting the Legislature of the People's Deputies of Komara and Pritica, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in this case the Committee has decided to recommend you to consider this bill, to accept it as a basis, and if you take it as a basis, and in general also because it is not there to work on, there is absolutely nothing. Paragraph 2 excludes from the second part of Article 254, and in the first part we simply change the "date of application" to "date of appeal". That's why we've come to the conclusion of a committee meeting to fill in practically nothing here. And me, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, an offer to you. So that we don't create a sequence of these bills, as soon as there's first reading, and maybe there won't be any objection, we put it right now, and as a whole this bill, it'll be fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, no other suggestions? I then put to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of a draft law amending article 254 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice. [[Registration number 7337]] [[on the acquisition of legal force by a judicial decision]] Please vote. [[18:08:59]] For 268. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole, and the proposal came from Yuri Karmazin’s mouth. No objections? I'm betting on voting on the adoption of the draft law as a whole as a law. Please vote. Registration number 7337. [[18:09:33]] For 279 Decision Adopted Dear colleagues, let's consider another little bill here. This is about amending some legislation, 7004. [[on clarifying the provisions concerning the granting of maternity leave for the adoption of an adopted child]] Short-circuited? Come on. I'll bet you a vote. Yes, please, reporter. Yury Aleksandrovich's cake, please. [[18:10:07]] For 214 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u127	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I am acting as the author of the bill and on behalf of the committee. The bill, by amending a number of legislations, clarifies existing legislation on the granting of maternity leave for the adaptation of an adopted child. For example, it is proposed to grant the right to leave from the date of adoption of a child for 56 calendar days, 70 for the adoption of two or more children who have adopted not only newborn children directly from the home but also children over 3 years of age. The Committee on Budget Affairs concluded that the implementation of the bill would not require additional funds from the State budget and its rules could enter into force from the date of publication. The Committee on Legal Policy, Social Policy and Labour, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, supports the adoption of the bill as a basis. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism adopted: recommending the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a bill as a basis. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, as previously said, we consider your applause to be unanimous support for this bill. So I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 7004]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m1.u129	In general, yes? [[18:12:13]] For 283 Decision taken. Here was an offer to consider in general how. Is there no objection? I'm voting on this proposal: the adoption of the draft law as a law. [[Registration number 7004]] Please vote. [[18:12:43]] For 281 Decision taken. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, this is our national deputy, colleague, our hope and our change, Pinchuk Andri Pavlovich, who introduced such a bill, amending the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activity, to strengthen the legal and socio-economic protection of students. The committee proposes to adopt this bill as a basis for further work. And the author is asking for work. Then let us make this decision: Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. The author asks for respectable colleagues. [[18:13:46]] For 249 Dear colleagues, "yes" to 249, the decision is made. And now it's 18 hours 15 minutes. So I have to declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue in plenary mode for 10 o'clock. We'll start work on "the hour of questions to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine."
