ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:20]] There were 413 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues Kuzmank Peter Pavlovich and Samuelenko Yuri Pavlovich. Please welcome them and wish them good health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 18 October 2011. 31 issues of the agenda were discussed, six laws and two decrees were passed, nine bills were adopted on a basis, and 12 bills were rejected. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with statements, reports, appeals. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Antonina Boloura, BUT faction. Mikola Tomenko, please. Andrew Pavlovsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u2	My fellow Members, on behalf of the BUT faction in particular and the opposition in general, I would like to express my concern about the situation that has arisen in the actions of the authorities in relation to the strategic course of Ukraine for Europe. It happened that the authorities were obviously concerned theoretically about European choice, and the events of yesterday's and especially yesterday's very clear demonstration that European choice is a strategic value that is not interested in Ukrainian authority, for which European values are not priorities. Once again, I would like to state that we are protecting Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, but we have always talked about the importance of protecting our political leaders and representatives of the opposition, but the European course of Ukraine is no less important. And the attempt to tie the opposition to the collapse of the European course is not just harmless, unfair and wrong. What the President of Ukraine said yesterday was obviously a joke and a serious encounter with the President of Russia that he wanted Ukraine and Russia to play in the finals, I took it very seriously. Because if there's any further collapse of Ukraine's Euro-2012 integration, it's going to turn into Moscow in the 1980s. Both Ukraine and Russia will play in the semi-finals and finals, because other countries may not come to this Euro. Therefore, we want to tell the authorities that the collapse of Ukraine’s European course is unacceptable and criminal for Ukraine. We have defended this choice and will protect it, just as we have protected Europeanism in specific and practical matters. What kind of European authority there can be today when the family of the national deputy Suslova is being stormed for the second time by the special forces behind a farmer’s report, who suspected whether 20 hectares of land were being used correctly. It is Beria and Stalin who rests, that the written report and 300 snipers with snipers storm Suslov’s family home. Do you have a conscience or not? Today, in the Cherkas region of businessmen and across Ukraine, what words they want to say in their defense, they are now lowering the special forces on helicopters. Today, the Chigirin district administration, which is destroying Nibulon throughout Ukraine, has banned Nibulon's cars from going to the Chigirin region, and the head of the district administration has now become the head of the innovation management. If such innovations are in the Cherkas region, the opposition will soon ban the movement of the Cherkas region. So, dear friends, once again, I want to say, we and Fatherland, and the opposition will do everything we can to preserve European values in Ukraine. Otherwise, both the President and the authorities can draw us not just in Moscow's real time, but they can get us into an authoritarian political regime that we will never get rid of. That is why we have defended and protected Ukraine’s European choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u3	Andrey Pavlovski, "BUT" faction. Is the dig going to work? Yuri Prokopchuk. The next will be the Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u4	Statement by the faction "BUT" - "Paternity." Dear compatriots, on the 76th day, Julia Timoshenko is in prison for political reasons. The ruling of the Pecher Court, proclaimed by Judge Kiriev, will no doubt enter the history of Ukraine’s legal system as a disgrace because it criminalizes political persecution and acts contrary to the law, in contravention of the valid Constitution. The article on "enemies of the people" is being reanimated by the authoritarian regime of Yanukovic. Fearing defeats in future parliamentary elections for fair political competition and political will, the authorities remove opponents by means of criminal persecution. Timoshenko’s prison sentence shows that for the Party of Regions and Yanukovich, the issue of destroying political competitors is more important than the image of loss in the West. In a gas crisis, Julia Timoshenko took responsibility for resolving gas problems not only in Ukraine but in most countries of the European Union. Janukovic repeatedly claims that his goal is to build a democratic state of the European model. So what was the former ex-Prime Minister convicted of? Is it because of the creation of a positive image in Ukraine or the support of 12 million Ukrainians, or because of the gas and economic crisis? Or will the authorities open up other foolish cases involving assistance to miners and victims since the 2008 disaster? Will you judge those who have received compensation for lost savings in Savings or on time retirement, salary, and scholarship? Apparently, you have no proof of Julia Timoshenko's guilt. Otherwise we wouldn't be going back to 15 years ago. They are still gathering a macular that has nothing to do with the criminal case, and the statute of limitations of which has long expired. Then perhaps we should raise questions about the cases that Janukovic had been convicted of? The condemnation of the leader of the opposition vividly illustrates the crisis of democracy in Ukraine. No authority has ever seen such harsh statements from the nations of the world, no longer hidden by the cunning of diplomacy. However, the President’s administration in the worst traditions of persistent authoritarianism not only pays no attention to the world’s reaction but does everything the other way around. The stated European principles have become a mere lakh paper. Stop being political hypocrites and tell people where you are going?Oh, my God! The truth is not hidden, it is, it will, and it will prevail! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u5	Valentin Zubov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Grigory Kaletnik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u6	Valentin Zubov, political party of the People's Labour Union of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies! I would now like to return to one of the most serious problems that hinder, not just hinder, reject Ukraine tens of years ago. It's about corruption. I think that from this rostrum in this room, we, the people's deputies, have spoken very often. But I get this impression, and I think it's not just me, that the more we talk about corruption, the more it develops. To avoid being loud, I'm setting a specific example. A few months ago, I received a request from residents of the city of Gitomir for the activities of Deputy Head of the Regional Office of Internal Affairs, deputy to the rear of some Lieutenant Colonel Obaranczuk. At first, I addressed the head of the Zitomir District Office, with specific documents that referred to Mr. Obaránczuk's very large number of abuses that allowed tenders, well, and many other business crimes, which, in the field of economic activity, you yourself know, have always been very abundant. This colonel of the militia allowed himself to travel from Gitomier to Ternopol, where his family lives, and he was detained and established, and documented by the GAI Hmelnicke District. It's all in the papers. Of course, I've made a parliamentary request to the Minister of the Interior. And I recently received a reply under the signature of the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine. A classic copy of the note, where everything is not confirmed and, in the end, Mr. Obaránczuk continues to hold the post and works. Of course, I think I want to think that the minister was simply being framed by his deputies, who, for some reason, decided to keep Mr. Obaránczuk. Therefore, in this statement, I appeal to the Minister of the Interior to take a deep look at the phenomenon and to make a just decision. I don't think Mr. Obaránczuk has the right to work in internal affairs because he compromises these organs in the eyes of our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u7	Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Blackmore will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u8	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would also like to draw the attention of all the authorities, all the citizens of Ukraine, who will soon be awaiting us a great public holiday, a festival of work, a celebration of our tireless noble, patient and proud agricultural workers. In rural areas, 40 percent of the population of Ukraine lives. I will point out that it has been the agricultural sector since Ukraine's acquisition of independence that has led economic reforms in the state. This is where a third of the gross domestic product is produced, 15 percent of the export potential of the state and more than 70 percent of the country’s domestic product is produced. If the financial crisis comes and goes, and when it's approaching, it shakes the banking system, other sectors of the economy, all of them with their hands stretched out to the state budget to break something, the villagers are already used to working practically without financial assistance, in a constant financial crisis for them. And they're growing enough to provide food for the people of Ukraine, and not just. And they're also producing billions of dollars of agricultural products for export. So we have a month until November 20 to thank you very much for the enormous work of our rural workers in the individual sector. Because they share 80 percent of the meat, milk, vegetables, potatoes, and Greeks with the country’s strong agricultural and agricultural holdings. This year, as many Greeks as it takes, even excessively, have been given. Last week, a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations took place with the Kosovo farmers, the rural, the village heads, the district authorities, the cities, the areas. [[And they're more than 3,000 700 with farms.]] How can we avoid exalting ourselves today without thanking farm workers when we have heard people say thank you to their address for helping the school, the hospital, and helping the veterans? Where, in the socio-economic development of the village, where government funds don't come in, farmers, agricultural enterprises, their leaders put their shoulders on it. The agricultural sector of the state economy is determined to implement President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic's programme "Affordable Society, a Competitive Economy, an Effective State" and to cut 70-80 million tons of grain and halve the production of another agricultural product. But to do that, you have to listen to the problems of the village, which are and work hard for the peasants, and help them create machine and technology stations, which are used by cooperatives, and put gas costs on the roads in the villages. Then people will not only work there but also live there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u9	Jaroslav Suhi, the right to speak, is handed over to him by a colleague of the Blackmores, a faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be Pachesuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, as parliamentary elections approach, the lower efficiency of legal work in the sphere of social policy in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine becomes increasingly evident. As always, pre-election logic successfully dominates common sense. They do great damage, they do, and they're probably going to do a lot of honest politics, when instead of a balanced, economic reality-based approach, separate political forces that are in power, they're going to eventually demonstrate cynical populism and demagogism, and they're going to turn the bill into propaganda and a desire to harass their political opponents. I repeat, this is sinning and sinning by all the present-present political forces in Parliament. And it's too bad, because it's clear that this kind of "politics" are suffering the people's interests first of all. You just listen to what our people hear in the debates, whether it's in the Supreme Council or in the media -- not figuring out the cause and effect of the existing social issues, not the search for ways out, but the empty, though high-pitched, criticism of the moral rights of politicians: who, when, to whom, who, who promised, who, when, to whom, to whom, who did or failed. Yes, it seems that low - income families, unemployed or retired families, or low - paying categories of workers will eventually find it easier. An example of bringing social standards into line with economic opportunities is the 2012 Ukrainian State Budget. It's just that, gradually, but in constant positive dynamics, we're finally going to bring state social standards and state social guarantees into line with the real demands of society and the law. So, as we know, the 2012 budget growth is projected at 13 percent. Therefore, taking into account the future budget deficit, a gradual 25 percent increase in all social standards is foreseen. Thus, the cost of living is projected to increase by 14 percent, so much so, and so much so as to provide a minimum of living. The wage increase in the budget area is 20 percent. Up to 15 percent will be helped by families with children. Moreover, the budget has set public investment figures in the basic area of the national economy by 30 billion dollars more than in 2011. This gives hope for the economy to come out on a cross-cutting basis. It's very important to tell people the truth today -- it's unpleasant, it's electrical and dangerous, but people need to be explained -- the resources of social populism have been exhausted in previous years, then the gap, then the gap between financial and budgetary disasters. Reforms become reality, and they need social support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u11	The word is given by Melnik Peter Volodymyrovich. The right to speak is given to him by his colleague Pachesuk, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u12	Peter Melnik, Party of Regions. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this state of the real economy in the current year in nine months. And here, thanks to the measures set out in the 2010-2013 economic reform programme, the poverty rate is a very important indicator for our Ukrainian people, down by 2.3 percent in 2010. In fact, this is the lowest level since 2001 of this indicator. And that's exactly what made it possible by almost 25 percent increase in living minimum by more than 12 percent increase in average pensions, as well as 10 percent increase in real wages. And it's very important when in the current nine months there's an increase in industrial output, there's an increase in manufacturing. And when it comes to the construction complex, it's 38 billion dollars or 11.4 percent more than it was last year. There's an increase in the agricultural sector. And of course that's a good basis for the 2012 budget. I want to draw the attention of both the citizens of Ukraine and my colleagues, that tomorrow we will be looking at the first reading of the draft budget. The Committee on Budgets yesterday considered and made its proposals, and it has already submitted, and it has national deputies on hand. And it's very important that this budget puts in a new paradigm of governance, from the stabilizing and countering of the second wave of the global financial crisis that's on the rise to constant development. It's very important that this is a model that's projective, which has a design approach and an innovation and investment component, and the social orientation that my colleague, the People's predecessor, has been talking about. Of course, the question of decentralization of tax revenue, the question of how.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u14	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u15	Valerius Kamchatny, MP of Reforms for the Future. Please, your performance. Next is George Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! On October 14, the Venice Commission published its report on the bill on the election of national deputies to our Parliament. The Commission noted the need for a serious revision of the bill, but international experts generally appreciated the work on the document. In particular, the Venice Commission noted that in Ukraine there must be such an electoral system so that trust in the integrity of electoral rights, which is key to democratic elections, is not lost by our society. In this context, our parliamentary group, Reforms for the Future, stresses: the bill that was passed to the Supreme Council, which was drafted by the relevant working group, is generally in line with the democratic requirements of the electorate to elect the national MP himself. This is crucial in the content of the money that is in the election law, which is the introduction of a mixed proportionally major election system. This is also true of our association with the electorate. In virtually every region, people talk about what they would like to choose personally, that is, this system is supported by all our constituents. That's why most of the MPs, including our MPs, tend to think about the introduction of a mixed electoral system, which is the election of half the deputies for a proportional system, and half of them in majority districts. Of course, the document submitted to the Supreme Council needs further work, and we are prepared, together with our colleagues, to prepare the project for second reading, to take into account all the remarks made by the Venice Commission. We encourage all who work in this room to join in the work on this bill. [[and most, and opposition]] The Venice Commission hopes that all conditions will be created for the political dialogue between the majority and the opposition to the content of electoral legislation. For our part, we note that such conditions have long existed. I'm a member of the group. the working group on improving electoral legislation led by the Minister of Justice I was delegated to this group by our faction I confirm that the group created all the conditions to take into account the idea of anyone, the representatives of both the majority and the opposition, and all these conditions for the dialogue were created. They exist at this time. So let's forget about our own chairs in this session room, let's ask about the interests of the electorate, because many of the deputies who have been elected by a proportional system have already forgotten about the existence of their parliamentary admissions. I invite journalists to ask these national MPs where they are received when they last had a reception. And the introduction of a proportional system will harden the constituency and allow the electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u17	Finish up, please. Litwin Yuri, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u18	The faction of the People's Party. Please give the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u19	Oleg Zarubinski, please. The next thing you know, the party's gonna be on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u20	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! There's a lot of talk today about improving conditions for business management, deregulation, creating green corridors, simplifying registration procedures, etc. And these are really important questions that need to be addressed. At the same time, we should not forget that businesses and businessmen are far from all citizens of Ukraine. There are people who teach children who provide health care, eventually there are hired workers. And these people face no less the problem of the quality and accessibility of services that should be given to them by government and local authorities. Only recently have we been able to abandon such apathy as help with the absence of convictions, and the technical examination of the cars of the individual has been canceled, but what a pitfall compared to what is yet to be done! For how many such foolish papers a person must collect to obtain an inheritance, change the place of registration, or form a will. Why, then, all these programs with the provision of new communication technologies to the authorities? All these authorities, both state and local authorities, must at least be informed about each other and therefore gather the necessary information for them, for their employees, at least faster and easier than for an ordinary person. In order to get one of the answers, you have to ask people to work first, because working time in the authorities, and in the citizens one and the other, to stand in line, because it's not every day, it's one or two days a week, and for those who live in remote villages, it takes a lot of time to get to the center and come back from it. And this is, for example, a whole day of lost life, this is the daily norm of a social product that this person has not produced. It's not the first year that we're talking about the single window, the electronic document. Is it that difficult to apply it to citizens? I want a man to come once. Even better, she just filed an application via the Internet, and after a certain period of time, only with a passport, she came with a ready result. The methods of solving this problem are no longer to be found abroad. There are positive examples of overcoming the bureaucratic divide in Ukraine. Take the Winnitsk region, where innovations such as a "transparent office" such as a unified database of municipal enterprises about citizens, a unified database, not only speeds up the consideration of everyday issues, but, more importantly, they change the system itself, the very ideology of the relationship between power and the citizen. Conclusion one: Performance, timeliness, and accessibility should not only become so many slogans but an axiom.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u21	Finish up, please. Vladimir Dinner, please. Please. Thurmanov National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one's going to be a Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, we were witnesses here with you yesterday, we heard statements by the leadership of the “BUT – Fatherland” faction: all mandates are submitted for early elections. It was simply an ultimatum for the members of the Supreme Council. Well, it's just that we must have made a mistake and forgotten. Dear colleagues, this is not the year 2007 when you made a decision with exactly that scenario, but the Supreme Council worked, passed laws, and there was a girl and a boy on the Bank making a joke, and the President issued a decree on the dissolution of parliament, on the early elections. And you know perfectly well that it was illegal, illegal. which we have today's Constitution. But then the European community kept quiet, even though we did. It's a democracy. Today you've thrown out the ultimatum again, all of you, give up your mandates. For God's sake, give it up, the Supreme Council will work, you last time tried to give up, no one gave up, no one went to work, but you got the money in the register. So let's be decent and honest. Today, they're talking about a gas contract. You know, you understand the signature of the dragon treaty, but the worst part is that it's 10 years old. 33 billion every year, Ukraine. Take the gas, we see the price doesn't go to the Russians. 27 we'll take, no contract, in the summer, 150 per cent fines, if you don't get, in the winter, 300. Where are we today? Is this not about giving up national interests? I can already remember one moment, the island of Snakes, you were in power, you gave up that island gassy. And you understand it all very well. I'm hearing speeches here today, and they're not coming to the Euro, and that's it. Bullshit! There'll be a Euro in Ukraine, only you, when you were in power, remember, you all collapsed and Platini came and said, There will be no euro in Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers, the Government and the President, established a timetable and launched the most beautiful stadium in Ukraine's capital, the best stadium in Europe, is pride. I was literally at Galicina's miners last week, taking the presidents there. I'm just glad I live in Ukraine, the European road. I would like to say that this road was probably on Donetsk today and Harkov where Euro-2012 will be going. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down. Last thing I want to say is, your style, your methods we know.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u23	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u24	You don't want to go to work today, you have one goal today: the worse, the better. But you're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u25	Thank you. National MP Zurko, I've already announced the speech. King's rights are passed on. Please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u26	Respectable people's deputies, respected TV viewers! The reason for my statement was the indignation of a healthy part of the parliamentarians, the people's deputies of the faction about the recent actions in Western Ukraine by local authorities to rename the street of the Peace into the street of the Nakhtigal battalion. I believe that no civilized country allows such a marasm and hypocrisy in the face of the end of the days of liberation of Ukraine. All are well aware that a nationalist and neo-Nazi at the time Bander and the Aberra staff created this battalion and, in large account, on their hands blood and Ukrainians and Jews and Poles tens of thousands. And from the right side of the hall, I said again, this gangster dog, when they raise their voice, they understand very well that they are committing an offence that is assessed not only by Ukrainian citizens, but also by citizens of neighbouring European Poland, and by Israeli citizens. And they fear one, that sooner or later they will be evaluated both in the walls of this Parliament and in the Attorney-General's Office, and most of all in history. Therefore, on behalf of the Company of Ukraine faction, I am confident that our colleagues, who have given us the floor, have addressed the President of Ukraine to the Attorney-General to give a legal assessment of such actions. We also note that playing games with the fascists, with those condemned by Nuremberg, is another black mark for us, namely, in the Euro-2012 front can be thought out by the representatives of Europe today, and should Euro-2012 be held at a stadium that can be called "Lemberg", as it was called the fascists. Is it worth it to go to this town today when the Jews were mossing "outside the law"? I therefore call once again on behalf of the faction of Genproktor and the Office of the President to assess these developments. And you are disgraced because you will disgrace the memory of our fathers and grandfathers who liberated this country. And most likely, you're so undervalued because of what you understand, Ukraine hates you and the time will come when you get full of all your neo-fascist, not neo-Nazi actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches of the national MPs have been completed. With regard to the proposals made by the national deputies, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate referrals and assignments. And at the same time, I appeal to the National Deputies with a request and a suggestion to maintain the working mood in the session room, not to oppress passion or twist the facts of historical measure. Let us work, and let historians determine all the circumstances of our past. We don't have to implement a password like that: forward to the past. Let's look to the future. Honourable National MPs, two factions, the "BOUT" faction, the "Fatherland" faction and the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, demand a recess to announce the application. I understand that there is a willingness to make a statement. Who will speak? Arsenius Yatsenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u28	Dear Ukrainians, there was another historic event in Ukraine yesterday. I think this historic event will enter into history textbooks called the Donor Accords. I would like to remind you that Ukraine has already signed the Kharkiv agreements, which resulted in the lease of the territory of the Ukrainian State for the benefit of a foreign military base. President Janukovic decided to change the course of Ukraine yesterday in Donetsk. He refused to travel to Brussels. He wants to abandon the European integration of Ukraine, this European integration of Ukraine, which was adopted and voted by the majority two years ago. Ukraine's National Security and Defence Fundamentals Act, Ukraine's "On the Principles of Ukraine's Internal Foreign Policy" clearly defines Ukraine as a European country. Ukraine is not a country of clans, Ukraine is not a country of authoritarianism, Ukraine is a country of European values. On Monday, when I visited Brussels, I was assured that President Yanukovic was expecting Europe. What Europe expects is that President Yanukovic will fulfill all of his promises to the Western leaders regarding the decriminalization of the article of the Criminal Code, which is being pursued by former Prime Minister Timoshenko, to stop political persecution and to fight openly, not when former Prime Minister Timoshenko is in prison. However, all of this remained purely in words. As an opposition, we insist that the head of the Ukrainian State be the head of that state so that he does not go where a few people are after him. This was already in the history of Ukraine. And the Soviet Union's repeat model number two is never going to happen under any circumstances. And not just because it is prescribed in the law, but because of the will of Ukraine and the Ukrainians. More than half of the Ukrainian people demand and support the European course. The situation was that the head of the Ukrainian State should come to Parliament for a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and say clearly: firstly, when political persecution is stopped in Ukraine, secondly, when and how an article of the Criminal Code is decriminalized, thirdly, when an agreement with the European Union is signed and fourthly, with which the President went to negotiations in Donetsk on the signing of the new gas agreement. They judge the former prime minister for the old gas deal. It seems that the materials of the criminal case are being formed for the new gas deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to Wednesday, October 19, 2011. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider two issues related to ratification. The first is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on cooperation in research and the use of space for peaceful purposes. I also inform the honourable colleagues who are arriving in Ukraine today, the official parliamentary delegation of this country, which will meet here, in Ukraine, for the next few days. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[10:41:39]] For 207 Decision taken. Reported by the Head of the State Space Agency, Yuri Sergiyovich Alexeyev. The focal point will be the chairman of the committee, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u30	Honourable People's Deputies, distinguished Presidency! You have before you a treaty of ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on Cooperation in the Field of Achievement and Peaceful Uses of Space. The adoption of the law is due to the need for ratification of the Ukrainian Law by decision and conclusions of the Ministry of Justice. The agreement was signed in November 2010 in the city of Riyadh of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. This agreement should provide us with a legal basis for cooperation between space industries, Ukraine's research and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. All necessary harmonizations with the relevant departments and ministries have been made without comment. The Ministry of Justice believes that we must bring this to the attention of the Supreme Council. This agreement will enable us to establish a legal framework for the implementation of joint projects and agreements on the use of peaceful space. Well, for the record, the Russian and Ukrainian joint ventures have launched five satellites on Ukrainian missiles in Saudi Arabia and there are still two satellite launches in the project. This agreement will enhance action between our research institutions. Because Saudi Arabia has a magnificent Royal Space Research Institute that wants to work with us. This agreement will enable our enterprises to cooperate more openly at the technical level. On the basis of the foregoing, I would like to request the ratification of the Ukrainian Cooperation Act between the State of Ukraine and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on cooperation in peaceful space. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u31	Thank you, too, Yuri Sergiyovich. Please invite me now to report to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u32	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs is pleased to see the head of the advisory shura of the Saudi Parliament, who will also visit our Supreme Council. The Committee has carefully, comprehensively considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on cooperation in the field of research and the use of space for peaceful purposes. And he unanimously recommended it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This agreement, as reported by the previous reporter, is aimed at providing legal preconditions for cooperation between Ukraine and Saudi Arabia in the area of space activities in a direction that is of common interest, strengthens the legal framework for the regulation of subjective relationships, orientations and forms of cooperation, the distribution of intellectual property rights, data exchange and financing and responsibility, dispute resolution mechanisms, customs privileges, and so on. This agreement is very promising, it shows the direction of intellectualization and modernization of the relevant sectors of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office supports the ratification of this agreement. The Budget Committee stated that the agreement is being implemented at the expense of the State budget for the coming years, which is allocated to the financing of the National Space Science and Technology Programme. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u33	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u34	Please support the recommendation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and ratify this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Are you insisting? Please sign up. Please state the names of the national MPs. Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Our parliamentary group at the faction meeting discussed the matter and came to the unanimous conclusion that we really need to ratify this agreement. The deal is convenient for Ukraine in all its settings. At the Foreign Affairs Committee, we also analyzed all possible risks that might arise from such a deal, and we did not immediately detect them. Saudi Arabia is a powerful state that is now active in space as well. Yes, it doesn't launch its rockets, but it does a serious space program, satellites that use both navigational systems and geological work and so on. Today, Saudi Arabia has open contacts with virtually all countries of the world, actively cooperates with China, the United States, and has a direct, open choice of who to order, who to make deals with, and who to sign agreements with. It's a great effort and our parliamentary, parliamentary diplomacy, when we were actively working together, looking for these contacts, it's the same work, and the actions that our friends in Saudi Arabia have done, for their part, have led to the fact that, by choosing between China, the United States and the European Union, Saudi Arabia has chosen Ukraine as its serious space partner. Today, after the actual copper current is covered by Euro-integration, we already see the problems that arise in the visa field, they can be very serious in the area of the economic problem on the Western vector, but Ukraine is still an export-oriented country, we need to get the most out of the way where we are willing to work together, where we are ready and can offer something that we need, and where we are still respected and met. So I ask you to ratify this agreement, to support ratification, because it is fully beneficial for Ukraine in all its parameters.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u37	Eugene Goodyak, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on Cooperation in the Use of Space for Peaceful Purposes is very important for Ukraine, first of all, the involvement of very powerful investments in Ukraine and the deepening of cooperation in the field of high technology. By the way, the two Saudi satellites that were launched in 2003 were launched by Ukrainian Dnipro missiles. The expansion of the treaty base between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia will deepen our bilateral relations. And, indeed, Vladimir Mikhailovich pointed out today that a visit will be made today by the head of the Majlis of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to the Ukraine of Abdullah bin Muhammad bin Ibrahima, and that would be very important. [[Al Shuri]] And I would like to say that these issues of cooperation in space were still activated in 2005, when the prime minister was Julia Timoshenko. Please, colleagues, support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u39	Ruslan Knazevitch, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Well, I don't think there's any objection in the session room. Obviously, we're going to get a constitutional majority in favour of ratifying this agreement, all the more so given that the delegation in the session room is now in Ukraine. But there's one little "but." I absolutely agree with the fact that we should work together, but by referring to the agency's head words, I will still remind you that Ukraine is in no way putting those satellites into orbit that are being produced in Saudi Arabia. It's just working, let's say, a joint project through the production of rocket launchers, and all the satellites are being produced by the Russian Federation. And at that time, even in the absence of this agreement, the project is fully operational. Several satellites have already been launched, and in the near future, we will ratify or not ratify this agreement, at least five more, as the head of the agency said, are already waiting for their turn. So, dear colleagues, let's be clear that if it can actually be effective, it has to be signed in a tripartite format, then it has a perspective. And so it turns out that we have our own deal with Russia, and we're also indirectly dragging Saudi Arabia into this project, which also has, by the way, our deal with Russia. I realize that for a great deal of perspective, given the latest developments, besides Russia and Saudi Arabia, perhaps China, especially no one is waiting anywhere for cooperation in this area. But at least at this point, let's be logical and get to the bottom of this. What is the purpose of ratifying a bilateral agreement when it needs a third party, without which we can not produce such a satellite in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u41	Yes, Oleg Zarubinski, please. Then John Popescu, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u42	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I'm going to start with what I absolutely disagree with, with all due respect to the previous speaker, with his view that the agreement should only be signed in a tripartite way. Of course, in international practice there are multi-party agreements of a professional nature, but if you look at the text of this agreement, and you should look at the text, obviously, it's not just about missiles. For example, I'm taking Article 3 "The Way of Cooperation," and Yuri Sergiyovich didn't say it, and I should say it. Look what you're talking about. Fundamental space science, meteorology, remote sensing, geophysics, agronomy, space biotechnology, ionosphere, and space plasma. Please tell me why this is a tripartite deal. Is it not possible in Ukraine to work one-on-one in bilateral format with Saudi Arabia? Yes. And then I'll tell you, and I need to read. Article 4. Let's see what this is about. Planning and implementing joint space projects, implementing training programmes for professionals, promoting the participation of science and engineering and technical staff in joint projects. What prevents, and why should this Agreement not be ratified? And why is it necessary to have the format of multilateral agreements? It's in the root. It's just philosophy isn't true. The right deal is absolutely right, and it's good that it doesn't just spread on rockets. And there's also a replica of what Saudi Arabia is. You know, this is a country that can be an example for all countries that live by energy carriers. So to diversify our economy and to intellectualize it, as Saudi Arabia does today, hardly anyone does. They have a lot of money, but they're trying to use that money for intelligence. And this agreement has an intellectual character, and Ukraine has the advantage of fighting for intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u43	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u44	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'll be as brief as I can be, as one minute. I fully agree with the arguments put forward by our colleague Zarubinsky, and I believe that the ratification of this agreement will create a legal basis for the implementation of joint Ukrainian-Saudi space projects and programmes, for the conclusion of external economic contracts between the companies of the States concerned, for the scientific and technical exchange that will have a positive impact on Ukraine's economy, strengthen its space state status and have some economic impact. And in responding to one of our colleagues from today's opposition, I would like to say that the Party of Regions never shared who signed the relevant international agreements. We have always voted in favour of ratification if it was in favour of Ukraine. And today we're going to vote "yes" and we're asking you to support us as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee's vote is on the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on cooperation in the field of research and the use of space for peaceful purposes. [[Registration number 0223]] Please vote. [[10:55:45.]] For 386 The law's approved. The factions, please. Region Party – 182, "BUT – "Patkaščina" – 92, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 34, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, "The People's Party – 20, "Afterfaction" – 13. Thank you. We are approaching the compromise of the great. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the pension insurance of persons released from military service, their families and other forms of social protection for such persons is under consideration. [[Registration number 0224]] I'll bet you a vote on your proposal, honourable national MPs, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:56:46]] For 226 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukraine's first Deputy Minister of Defence, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Možarowski. The correspondent is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Defence in order to carry out the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the agreement, which was signed in October 2007. Since this agreement does not provide for a mechanism of provisional application for ratification, its position cannot be exercised by the parties prior to the adoption of the relevant law. The acceptance by the Moldovan side of the agreement was ratified in 2008. The adoption of the law will ensure Ukraine’s compliance with its international obligations, the legal basis for obtaining pensions from former military personnel in both countries, while changing their place of residence. The position of this treaty extends both to the Armed Forces and to military personnel of other military formations that are created in accordance with the laws of the State-of-the-Side. It should also be noted that the rules of the agreement will also apply to citizens living in the territory of Transnistria when they move to a permanent place of residence in Ukraine. The implementation of the treaty will not cost the State budget any more, so I ask the national deputies to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u47	Yes, do you have everything? Thank you, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u48	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service, their family members and other forms of social protection for such persons, and unanimously recommended that the Supreme Council approve the bill as a whole. The bill is clearly humanitarian in nature. And the benefits here are two-sided to both Ukraine and Moldova. Assembling a valid agreement will contribute to the creation of a real mechanism for Ukrainian-Moldov cooperation in the area of pension insurance for persons released from military service in Ukraine and Moldova when they move in accordance with Moldova to Ukraine and Ukraine for a permanent residence. On a scale, these migration flows are small, for example, in Ukraine, only 10 former military personnel who live in Ukraine are Ukrainian citizens, but were engaged in military service in the Republic of Moldova. So the Pension Fund's spending is going to be low. The Committee of the Supreme Council on National Security of European Integration, as well as the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administrations, support the ratification of the said Treaty by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee's recommendation decision in foreign matters and ratify the agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u49	Thank you. Please sign up, your esteemed colleagues, to discuss the matter. Taras Cranville, the Reform Group for the Future, then Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u50	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, national MPs! With regard to the agreement, it is indeed a expressed humanitarian character. And I want to stress here another nuance that many might be interested in with regard to finance: whether it poses additional financial threats to us. We took a good look at this fact on the committee: it doesn't really carry it. First of all, Ukraine does most of these functions by virtue of its legislation. We don't rely on any functions that we don't have until now. This is generally about ten people who need to be settled. The mass migration, movement of citizens from the territory of the Republic of Moldova or Transnistria to Ukraine today has not been observed, especially those who fall under this category today. In the case of isolated cases, they also need to have a normal legislative basis. That's in this part. In the second part, the same number of Ukrainian citizens who served here in our army, usually of Ukrainian origin, now live in Moldova. They had some problems with pension insurance, and at times the Moldovan side had adopted separate legal acts that allowed them to account for similar pensions, but there had been some setbacks. In fact, the operation of this agreement, in our view, is even more of a one-sided one, where we, by introducing this negotiating side into these negotiating processes of the Moldovan side, provide for those Ukrainian citizens or people who have served in the army and live in Moldova, and for them, first of all, with adequate additional payments, with adequate collateral. So in this case, there's a sense to ratify this agreement, it's very small, it would seem that very few people are interested. But let's not forget, even if one person's legal security is not regulated, it has to be done. That's why our MP group is asking you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u51	Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u52	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Fellow dignitaries, the ratification of this agreement will provide the legal basis for resolving the pension issues of persons released from military service and their families in the event of their moving to a permanent residence from the Republic of Moldova to Ukraine or vice versa. In order to improve relations with our neighbours in the Republic of Moldova and to help resolve the pension issue of former military personnel and members of their families, the Party of the Regions will vote in favour. In view of the fact that only 10 former military personnel serving in the Republic of Moldova and living in the territory of Ukraine today, this will not affect the budget, since the citizens of the Republic of Moldova who were serving in their military service in Ukraine are more than ten. That's why the Party of Regions will vote in favour and ask the Hall to support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u54	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Every time I read ratification laws, there's a double, double attitude. First. The question is: Why is the agreement made in 2007 just now being made to us? In the report, Your Honor General, you did not say that, and you were obliged to say why nothing had been done for four years. You, Mr. Chairman, are not giving us the opportunity to consider the issue of a full procedure where we might ask questions. As a result, I ask that once and for all, when the treaty is ratified with great delay, we be informed of the reasons for this delay. Why has this been done for so many years? After all, I would like to see the foreign minister or his deputy present at the ratification. So we can hear from him, including when these yesterday's free trade agreements within the SND we're talking about are being ratified. Allegedly. And I don't believe in these agreements because there were already agreements, and then the Russian Federation what did they say? 100 items will be removed from the contract. Which will now be removed? And to the end. You know, I don't know how you do it, and I'm afraid to read these headlines that are now: [[Financial Tams Deutschland.]] "Janukovich and his sister-in-law are no place in a democratic Europe." And these headlines are all over Europe, all over the country. Let's stop what we call legislation, call the President here, say "call," the President, the Prime Minister, we'll hold a closed session. And let's, in the end, explain where we're going as we're going, and pretend there's nothing. Scientists are now standing in front of the Cabinet of Ministers, demanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u55	Thank you, thank you. Oleg Zarubin Faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u56	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, we debated the treaty yesterday in faction and concluded that it is objectively convenient for Ukraine, that it has not only, as Taras Cranovil rightly said, a humanitarian character, but it has, excuse mercantile character that is convenient for Ukraine. Why? Because the quantification of this agreement is expressed in article 4, and it says that the expenses for the retirement of those soldiers who have been released and the members of their families who are permanently in the territory are incurred by the parties to their permanent residence without any mutual settlement between the parties. Provided that those military officials who have been released and moved to Moldova are financed by all the facilities and articles 4 and 5, and that there is a complete set of social rights, at the expense of the country where they are now. We came to a conclusion yesterday, looking at the People's Party faction, which is purely arithmetical, because there is no significant imbalance in the migration processes between Ukraine and Moldova, because we have a population of more than 10 times more, and accordingly more people who are released to the reserve and their families are in Moldova, more than Moldovan is in our possession. And since there's no interaction between the sides, it's just basic to Ukraine that's convenient. I think that's how we should look at the agreement not only from the point of view of humanism, but also from the point of view of basic convenience, it's convenient. The National Party faction will vote for it. It's convenient for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our consideration of this matter. The Committee proposes approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the pension insurance of persons released from military service, their families and other forms of social protection for such persons. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[Registration number of bill 0224]] Please vote. [[11:09:36]] For 388 The law is passed. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 177, "BUT - Fatherland" – 97, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 33, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-factional – 16. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now consider the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily series of bills. First of all, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the recovery of the size and order of payment of the benefits]] The bill's author is Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u58	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" block. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this bill has been put forward. On July 6, the Cabinet of Ministers adopts its decision to virtually eliminate the benefits of socially vulnerable categories, such as war veterans, victims of Nazi persecution released from military service, Afghans, and Chernobyl. This is practically what was in the so - called law on the execution of judicial decisions that gave rise to the storming of the Supreme Council. On the basis of this, this was done on the basis of the law adopted in June, 3991, which changed the state budget of Ukraine. After reviewing this law, I want to tell you, believe me, it was accepted with a violation of the Rules, because paragraph 7 was introduced, which gave rise to the Cabinet of Ministers, at the expense of the poorest people, to solve the deficit of the budget, i.e. to abolish the benefits in 2011. And this is an unconstitutional solution, it's not only unregulated, so obviously if we're consistent in protecting the least protected population, we have to cancel this paragraph in the relevant Law 3491. That's what the draft law is all about, which I suggest you consider. Moreover, we will then be consistent in the responsibility of these people, because I think the Supreme Council has acted wisely by refusing to consider the law on the enforcement of judicial decisions, which was intended to give all of this to the Cabinet of Ministers. So even though there's two months left, I don't think that's going to reflect negatively in our budget. Because this was not foreseen in the 2011 budget. So I propose and I ask you to put it into the agenda, talk about it and then, if you can, in the shortest terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u59	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, will we exchange our thoughts? Please two for it, two for it, two for it. Names of the national deputies. Alexander Blackwolf, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." The next one is Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u60	Dear friends! Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. Obviously, Mr. Matviennek's proposal for a bill should be supported for one simple reason. That when we threw all this out of the budget for this year, we broke the law, we violated the budget code. And it's obvious that even for such reasons, it's worth putting into the agenda and voting in favour. And he was absolutely right about the reporter who said that because of vulnerable population groups that require state support in any country of the world, we're trying, our state is trying, our government is trying to fund stupid projects like Euro-2012. Which includes any investment projects that are conducted without tendering procedures and are actually being disrupted. And that's how we give the rich the opportunity to steal from the poor. So obviously we have to support this bill, it's a very good proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u61	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u63	Ivan, Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Not only do I want to support my colleague, Anatoly Mathviennek, and Paul Zebrovsky, but I want to raise a broader question. We're in a situation today with the government's initiative to transfer payments of the entire aid system through the Cabinet of Ministers' decrees, given the level of financial revenue to the budget, somehow we've forgotten. We have a situation that looks like this. After the famous actions here at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, both Afghans and Chernobyl, the Prime Minister signed an agreement with Afghans and Chernobylers, claiming that the government is rejecting the actual key idea of the bill and making proposals. And the benefit system: first, it's regulated by laws; second, it's not only implemented by the fact that it was done in previous years, it's increasing in part, for example, payments to disabled people and war veterans, and participants in hostilities, especially families, where boys didn't come back from Afghanistan and all that. I asked myself, ‘ What is the situation? The government sent us nothing. I mean, just not looking at this bill doesn't mean you have to decide. So I am absolutely convinced that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, perhaps the day of the government, will ask the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, and the Minister of Social Policy, as they see a way out of this situation. Because if we don't look at it, and they, for example, are going to budget it, as in this coordinate system, that they're going to decide whether to finance Chernobyl, Afghans or war veterans or not to finance it. All the same is the prerogative solely of the laws of Ukraine and the Supreme Council must determine. So I think the idea of our colleagues is right, but we need to expand it and look at it in general, and tell people what social policy will be like in 2012 from the government of Azarov, and see if even those signed agreements with Afghans and black people that have been published in the press will be implemented. So I would think that such a bill has the right to exist, but we, as the Supreme Council, should ask more questions and put the dots in the sense that only laws regulate the issue of benefits in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u65	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u66	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! As a member of the Ukrainian Company, and more than the head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council, do I want to support the need to adopt this document because the de facto contained in paragraph 4 of the 2011 State Budget Act? And it contains indulgence for failure to comply with a series of laws, or the incomplete implementation of a series of laws, namely: The Status Act, the Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, the Social Protection of Children of War, the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. In fact, the State Budget Act can't have this, because it's a violation of the Constitution, it's a violation of existing legislation. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this document and we think it should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. I am fully supportive of the fact that we have to look at this problem in the complex, and for this we would all need to read the information in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, how the governments and the Supreme Council of Ukraine have acted since 2000, striking social laws. And we obviously needed to take stock of all the laws and make decisions that were understandable and acceptable to people. So I think this is going to be the subject of a separate, serious conversation between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Mikhail Chechtev on this matter? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u68	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, can agree with the logic of the speakers, but I think the key point that has been given in the discussion is that we need to take a much broader look at this problem, look at it more thoroughly, once again, so that we do not overtake it five times. In agreement with the logic expressed by the speakers, we propose not to vote in favour of the law in order to prepare a more serious document once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down. I mean, we practically talked to you and Mikhail Vasilovich about things that everyone said. Why do we have this storm? Let's make a decision. Dear colleagues, if you would like to vote, please calm down and vote on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2011. [[Registration number 9253]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:20:17]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 1, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 99, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 43, communists – 24, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, "The People's Party – 0, non-factional – 5. The decision is not taken. Dear National MPs, now for the inclusion in the agenda of the day project of the decree to honor the 70th anniversary of the coup d'état of the soldiers of the South-West Front, the Chianas, the Poltavians and all the participants in the greatest battle under Kiev in July-September 1941 in the course of World War I. [[Registration number 9110]] Is Peter Andryovich Yushchenko there? Please, Peter Andryovich. The committee is Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u70	Dear National Deputies! In view of the fact that on September 26th, when the battle for Kiev had actually ended, and this decision was not entered into the September package, I ask you to remove it from the vote, but with your permission I will remind you of some of the historic circumstances of this great, most grand in the history of war. I remind you that according to Barbaross' plan, the three powerful groups that are coming out, the North Group at Leningrad, the Smolen Group at the Center and the South Group at the South, should have taken these cities by July 15th. The North Group and the Center Group were successful in making these plans. The North Group approached Leningrad by July 14th. On July 15, Smolensk was taken. And on the subterfuge to Kiev, the southwest front was holding the defense. July passes, August comes, and Kiev stands. Hundreds of thousands of kyans are coming out. They're on their way to the front. Hundreds of thousands go to build fortifications. Hitler is furious with this situation and is transferring half of the group of troops led by Gooderian to help Rudenstadt take Kiev. Kiev took September 21st. He surrendered to Kiev on September 21st. On September 15, in the back, groups from the south of von Kleist and Guderian in the Lochwich region closed down. It's in the boiler. More than one and a half million soldiers turned out to be. 700,000 were killed, 690,000 were taken prisoner, most of them wounded, almost all of them killed. And no one counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u71	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u72	Over a million, half a million civilians died in that boiler. Hell. We either go to Shumeikovo, where the epicenter of this battle was, or Truby -- there are two figures, tragic figures of soldiers. No respect. Four names are Carponis, Tupikov, Chief of Staff, Rickov, Commissioner, and Buhmistrenko, Secretary of the CDC, on this board. I invite the MPs to build temples in Lochvice or Shumeikovo and Kiev. On the walls of the temple, draw the names of the known ones and carry out research on the unknown of these heroes, as done in the temple of Christ the Savior, as on the Mount of Worship. It's like Prochorovica. It's like Horse's at high school in Kharkiv.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u73	Thank you. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u74	Respectable Society! Dear voters! Of course, fighting for Kiev is probably the most tragic page in the history of World War II, even World War II. Indeed, in this battle the tremendous freeness of Soviet command was manifest right at the beginning of the war, because it was absolutely absurd: it was here to keep the Kiev, when the Germans had already walked, were actually somewhere under Poltava and so forth. And when this route to Kharkiv, which wasn't there at the time, was actually sinking tanks in the swamps, people, horses -- everything in the world. And, of course, when there was an army of Kirponos in Shumeik's Gaius under Poltawa and he was killed and the commander of the Kirponos himself, and in fact, those people were killed. I want to give you a few killer figures so you know what the losses were: 23 thousand 22 people were killed on the German side, on our part, along with the prisoners, 700,000 people on the German side. Can you imagine this proportion? Because of this, of course, this page we should remember and know, but to celebrate it -- we discussed on the committee -- what are we to celebrate: Stalin's innocence, which has been committed all the time to "keep Kiev, keep Kiev and keep Kiev"? And another observation. Peter Andryovich is a member of our committee, and we treat him as best we can, but I will report to our committee. First of all, the name itself is not the answer at all, there, in Poltavka, Kiev. Such things are not done in these documents. And what's important is that this date has passed is the end of September of the month we should have celebrated it somehow. Because of this celebration -- I don't think we should celebrate this date -- I think it's on a national level, let people think about it, but accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u75	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u76	The committee does not recommend the adoption of this decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, is there a need to exchange ideas? Please sign up: two for, two against. Ah, dear colleagues, the author is filming the project. The author is filming, well, what are we going to talk about if there's no subject to discuss?Oh, my God! Because this is the committee's chairman, he will report the committee's decision, Peter Stepanovich! [[B in m in s a l in]] Peter Stepanovich! Peter Stepanovich! I ask you again, one minute from the factions, each say your point of view. Please, who's it going to be? Jaroslav Kenzior. Then Yuri Prokopchuk. And Taras Cranwell, and we'll be there in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u78	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine” MP. You know, it's very surprising the reaction of the Communist factions. No one was spilling dirt today. What is undeniable is the historical fact that because of the free will of the then Soviet Union leadership in the Russian-Russian-German War, huge military groups have fallen into the Cauldrons, and millions of soldiers have perished innocently because of the free leadership, part of it seems to have been captured. Well, where do you go when it's a historical fact? And today, not to speak to Communists, but to take the history books, the history of World War II, and for once in their lives, to read and learn the truth about their predecessors, your leaders, who, apart from what they had destroyed themselves, were throwing away.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u79	Yes, Yuri Prokopchuk, please. Then there's Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u80	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland." Why did such a tragedy then occur under Kiev, Ukraine, and the former Soviet Union? But that's why, Your Honor, there was article 58 of the Criminal Code of the 27th of Stalin, which declared all the warlords enemies of the nation. And then Blucher, Tuchachevsky, Yegorov, Jakari, commander of UPS Muskevitch, Richagov were shot. And in practice, the army remained completely unconcerned because of the operation of article 58, which declared the people of all the chiefs and all the political leaders. The same continues today. Then Marshal Timoshenko was removed from command, and today the leader of the opposition, Julius Timoshenko, was illegally sentenced to seven years. I will remind you that there was Henry Yagoda, and Jehoash came and shot Henry Jahod, Jehoash.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u81	Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u82	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, national MPs! I suggest we get back to the decision, after all. Question: Should we honor the memory of the vast number of millions of people who, despite the absolute freeness of the supreme commander and party leadership of the country, stood to die and died? 700,000 losses, terrible loss. Clearly, respect is needed. But the author put us all in a bit of an awkward situation. With a good absolute goal, he made a draft decision at the time, and we are now voting at a time when it is impossible to execute, all the actions, all the shares were scheduled for September, now it's the end of October. So we made a decision: With grief, with compassion, with the memory of these people, with indignation at those who threw them to this death and did nothing to bring these armies out, we make decisions about free voting. Who thinks you can ignore a legal moment that's in a decision that can't be implemented, who thinks it's dominant. But we're all a group.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u83	Finish up, please, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u84	But the whole group is that we all honor the memory of these people together, and we feel that we should never allow ourselves to be so vain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u85	Thank you. Vadim Koleschenko, then Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Every faction has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u86	Respectable citizens of our Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Today, we have witnessed how individual, not entirely wise, so-called policies are trying to squander the bright memory of the inhabitants of the country, which has saved the world community from the brown plague. These are tragic, heroic pages of the triumphant history of our Ukrainian state. And we need to be a short-sighted, small political dwarf so that we do not understand the heroic feat of the Ukrainian and Soviet people during the Great Homeland War, rather than the Second World War, as the author of the project suggests. These are the moments that unite our nation, unite our history, raise us and the future generation in love for our homeland, self-sacrifice and patriotism. It is not in this Parliament that we should evaluate the progress of this people, and it is all the more important to appreciate the military talent of the generals. We must make political decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u87	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, Communist faction, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u88	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear colleagues, in view of what the author of the draft decree was talking about, especially the head of the committee of profile, it becomes clear that the decree was being prepared not for honor, but for the purpose of making another mockery of those people who saved the country and saved the Kiev. This is the first time. Secondly, the honourable colleagues, who are the Second World War in the Sumeikovo Lovichwiecki district of Poltav region? The Great Homeland War is just that. And the third thing I was going to say. When the Ukrainian Veterans’ Council and the Company of Ukraine wanted to be honored, they organized a trip to Shumeikovo on September 20 and remembered those who had died protecting our country. This respect, not the abuse that was organized today, from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I have a request and an offer to stop this discussion because it seems that we political sympathies have put historical truth ahead of us. The fact that this problem exists and the right was Taras Crnowil, that we needed to make appropriate decisions in due course, to take appropriate action, including along the lines of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the less knowledge we have on this subject, the more ambition we have. And I'd like to ask, dear colleagues, not to make a bad analogy, because it's just humiliating the people we're protecting. So, honourable national MPs, we understand that there is a problem. We'll send it to the researchers to do the right thing, including through the National Academy of Sciences. Since the author has volunteered to withdraw this ruling, we do not need to vote because it is not included in the agenda. Question completed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now our turn to consider the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the decree marking the 70th anniversary of the birth of the great Ukrainian writer, scientist and public figure Anatoly the Funeral. National MP, author of the draft decision by Paul Mikhailovich Movchan. From the committee is Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski. If there is no insistence on the speech, we will vote, but they will.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u90	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, would be 70 years old next January from the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian teacher, writer, scientist, and public figure, a winner of many prizes, including the National Award for the name of Shevchenka. He was born in Chernigovishka, someone who doesn't know. Whoever followed the First National Radio Channel could hear it all the time, every week, it kept repeating quite often, "If we were learning the way we should." He led a pedagogical society for many years in the name of Vashchenka. For almost 40 years, he devoted himself to pedagogical activities, author of many books and explorations: "The Magical Conflict and the Development of Modern Prosecution", "The Accomplishment of Entity", "The Christmas Trees", "Oles Gonchar", "Boris Grinchenko", "Boris Grinchenko in the literary movement of the early 19th to 20th century", "The chronicles of which we do not know how to commit," "The Defense of Bations", "The Talks of Pain," is also one of his radio transmissions, "After the Enchanted Circle of Centuries", "When We Are, Where Are We?".. He is the winner of the academic award of Jaroslav Wisego, an academic at the University of Ukraine, the National Bilec Award in the field of literary criticism, the award of the name of Fireyenka, Bagrian, the International Shevchenka Foundation and the Boris Grinchenka Award. Yuri Musketz most clearly described this figure that we lost, sadly, a few years ago. Anatoly the Funeral was the hottest, most sincere Ukrainian, Ukrainian of the highest trial. The undertaker followed his course unmistakably, regardless of threats, without compromising his strength or health. He was in the literary field.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u91	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u92	Sincere and true. He did much in literary criticism. It's monographs of Stiglev, I've already mentioned Grinchenko and Potter. He wrote, Yuri Mikhailovich: "It seems he was himself like Greenwich" is the author of the Ukrainian columnist. I ask you very much for your support, for this is a tribute to memory. He would've done it himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u93	Thank you. Thank you. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u94	Anatoly Grigorovich the Funeral is our contemporary. This is not the kind of person we talk about very often in the past. Our contemporaries have moved away from us, and at least I think he's still here, and he's gone about three years ago. We recently opened a monument to him in a cemetery. It was a unique absolutely man, active, understandable, without any, as it were, subtexts. I'd like to remind you of something that my colleague, Silent, didn't say. He was also the first deputy minister of education. And so much was done at the time to reform Ukrainian education. He was the head of the Vashchenka Teaching Society. He organized it, and he led it. He headed the Kyiv Writing Organization. He stood up for the mayor of Kiev and took second place, without, if I'm not mistaken, four or five votes at that time. Clearly, there were some dark pages during these elections. In general, a unique person who knows the world, who has produced so many books. I'd like to add to what the Mobchan said, his famous radio show would now be thrown out, Paul, of this, off the air, just like my 20th wave. But it was a beautiful transmission that we were waiting for, "If we were to learn properly." If some people were to learn properly here, we would have had such problems, perhaps not today in the state we have. Because of this, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality supports the heat. I think we should honor this man, his 70s. He deserved it. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, are we going to discuss this? Well, please sign in if you insist. Well, that makes sense, you know. Well, I'll see about that. They insisted. This is Anatoly Matvienko and Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u96	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" block. I didn't go out on this rostrum to advertise, I went out to thank Mr. Paul Silent for the initiative. And secondly, I think I have a great honour from this high court of the higher legislature to say a few words about the real Ukrainian, and thus at least to give a part of the tribute that we have to pay to those people who really put themselves on the table so that Ukraine can be a democratic, legal European state. I want to say that obviously the biggest problem Anatoly the Funeral was worried about is the problem that we can't solve with you. It's the birth of a nation. And if we don't all join Ukraine in becoming a nation that builds its state, it's the first nation that has to be born. And where language is not for ethnicity, language is for citizenship. The buried word "Ukrainian" was written in capital letters and this distinguished him from many of us. He was proud that he was Ukrainian, he wanted this state, and he put himself down and eventually burned for this Ukraine to become. I think that the gift of memory is not just given to Anatoly the Funeral. And to all who, following his vivid example in the ministry of Ukraine, may continue to do so. In this way we give a signal to all Ukrainians as to how to live and how to love Ukraine. Not for a bite of the hall, but for being really the richest, fairest and most democratic. I would like to thank all those who today would support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u97	Mikhail Vasilovich Kossov, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u98	Mikhailo Kosov, Timoshenko Street. I signed up to make an offer, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Maybe it's not about the 70th anniversary, but about the memory. That would be more appropriate. As for the Funeral, I knew this man very closely, and I always admired him. Because he's a unique man for his gifts. Because he wasn't just, let's say, a specialist in a literature profile that he was supposed to be working on as a professional. He was a wonderful publicist, he was a beautiful actor. And this radio show, "If you're learning it right," says Taras Shevchenk, "it's got total U.K., national fame. How unfortunate that there is no one today who can continue at such a level, as the Funeral did, to talk about such subjects. Funeral, it's not only Ukrainian, it's European, let's put it this way. Not only European, for he was known in the United States, and so forth. His works have been translated into many languages in the world. And so, after changing the 70th anniversary to memory, I would like to vote in favour. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Nobody insists anymore? Dear People's Deputies, Your Honor Mikhailovich, let's not correct the decision, the draft of the decision, it needs to be amended, and now we're going to solve the issue of inclusion in the agenda, and then we're going to define some technical rights. I'm voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian writer, scientist and public figure Anatoly the Funeral, please vote. [[Registration number 9163]] Please vote. [[11:45:21]] For 185 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions is 4, "BUT - "Patkaščina" - 99, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 56, communists - 0, "Reforms for the Future" - 20, National Party - 0, non-factional - 6. Too bad, dear colleagues, I knew him personally as a university professor. () [[B in m in s a l in]] I voted, so take it easy. Dear colleagues, I've asked everyone to vote. You can't practice every brain, so don't worry. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way when I see that there's 226, then we'll come back, now there's no 226. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Internal Affairs Workers during the implementation of the constitutional right to freedom of peaceful assembly by participants in a rally held in Kiev on 24 August 2011. Are we looking at a shortcut, or how do we view it? Short cut? How will we view it, with a reduced procedure? Is it full? Please, dear fellows, for the full, for the full. Please. Then let's see, honourable national deputies: the report and the answers to the question to the reporter, then the break, and after the break, we'll continue the discussion. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u101	Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, held a shameful event on August 24 of Ukraine’s Independence Day, in connection with violations of the fundamental rights of Ukrainian citizens to carry out peaceful activities, peaceful meetings, and peaceful demonstrations. I want to emphasize that these fundamental rights, which are not created by Ukraine, are enshrined in the global declaration of a planetary scale, are enshrined in the Constitutions of all democratic states, including our country, Ukraine. Despite the fact that this is enshrined in the Constitution, in the laws of Ukraine, despite the decision of the court that restricted these actions, a peaceful demonstration had the right to walk through the streets of Vladimir. This right of people has been deprived, deprived of the illegal activities of the police. Whomsoever gave a criminal order and who did not carry out a known criminal order, and who was entitled under the Constitution, should also be clarified by the Temporary Commission of Inquiry. I'd like to turn to the majority who, I understand, roughly how he votes, but this is your right and yours, and for any authority, this right should be inviolable. We were trying to find out without creating a TSC, who did this, from direct communication with the police. And here there are MPs just like I was standing in the front row, literally, eye-to-eye with the militia. They hid those eyes both to the ranks, and the sergeants, and the officers, who didn't call their names, refused to tell them who gave them a criminal order that limits the constitutional rights of our citizens. I'd like to point out that the police were equipped as they were supposed to be equipped when they were fighting bandits in Odessa. But there, Minister Mogilov said, they don't have helmets, they don't have bronze vests, and so on. It was all there, it was all there. They're willing to protect citizens from citizens, and they're not prepared to protect citizens from bandits. The committee should give the conclusions and answers to these questions. The bill introduced by the people's deputies Grecenko, Catherinechuk, Kirilenko, Tarasyuk, Greens, Philenko, Sas is two opposition factions: "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and the faction "BUT is the Fatherland." All the rules of the Rules are met. 50 days ago, letters were sent to the leaders of the parliamentary factions, 3 of whom gave their representatives. And to the commission, it is suggested that the faction leaders should be included in this commission: Viacheslava Kirilenko, head, Sergey Sobolev, deputy head, members of the commission: Victor Olijnik, Andrew Pavlovsky, Mikola Catherinechuk And I would like to stress separately that the MP's Reform for the Future, according to the documents that you have on the table, has proposed to Vladimir Kapliank, but today by letter, they're obviously going to be able to replace this candidate for Hennady Zadirk. I'd like to support this proposal. I repeat, all regulations are in place. We have the opportunity to make that decision. A positive decision requires 150 votes. And most of all, an honest answer is needed, who in the militia allows himself to violate the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine and hide behind these soldiers, and unfortunately turns mints into garbage, which is then not respected and despised by the leadership of the militia. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u102	Questions, respectable colleagues. Please register with the reporter. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Moisik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Karpuk Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u104	Vladimir Karpuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u105	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, we thank you for your initiative, and this should certainly be maintained. But if we analyze further events that took place after August 24, particularly on September 20, when events occurred when Afghans did. No one but us opposed the government's sad legislative initiative to completely eliminate the benefits. And the police are increasingly attacking the rights of citizens. It has long been known that columns are not allowed, or people, from the areas to the west in Kiev, and the extreme cannot be found, as if there is no pressure, but neither can the bus be taken. Mogilov has long been ready to violate and use force.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u107	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u108	Thank you for asking, it's absolutely fair. Well, only a blind man doesn't see that in the last five and a half years it's preventive, whether it's a visit to a high-ranking Kiev government or a state holiday, well, when they're talking about the Moscow Patriarch, it's sacred, it's a decision for the prosecution of state administrations -- and it's limited, I repeat, the constitutional rights of citizens, and it's peaceful, and it's not surprising that they're taking measures to support power, even it's limited. We've gone too far. Here's a question for local administrations, we know whose decree they're assigned. There is a question before the courts, and we know who they are really subordinate to. And here's a question for the militia that's acting illegally, violating our rights with you, I repeat, rights, and minorities. This has to be stopped, and that's exactly what this bill is about. At least give an assessment of who is in violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u109	Who's next? Sergey Sobolev, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u110	Dear Mr. Anatoly, I would just like to remind everyone: both the radio audiences and the national MPs, that this event took place on a non-working, holiday day, on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the Independence of the Ukrainian State. And I would like to remind you that in charge of walking along with the Association of People's Deputies, the people's deputies should have gone through the first call that voted for independence. And in this situation, the conduct of the police, while I was personally in the task force, which agreed all nuances with the city administration, directly with the police personnel who would be taking this move, the insolence with which, literally overnight on the team, I am convinced, the Banking Team from Yanukovich personally, came up with this command and were literally, against the people, I think that this Temporary Special Commission should be a warning for the future. Here's your answer to who was giving the team this is to directly interfere with the celebration of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u111	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. I can confirm. Just like you, I'm joining the committee of resistance to dictatorship that organized this action. It was clearly brought to the Kyiv authorities, a peaceful action that is not intended to interfere in any way with the planned actions of either the President or the government or the Kiev city authorities. In no way has there been any arrangement for any acts of violence or to spoil a holiday. Not in any way. That's what they knew. Who made that decision? For the sake of objectivity, in this case it was not the minister of internal affairs, for in the court where the matter was being considered, the Ministry of Internal Affairs recommended that we pass. So this was obviously accepted above. Who can do it? The prime minister is now, under the system of authority that was created, no one is calling him anything. So a decision can be made by a team, just the President of Ukraine or someone at his disposal. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u112	Yuri Odarchenko, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u113	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Mr. Anatoly, we all know that no one can limit the right of citizens to peaceful meetings, this right is given to us by the Constitution. But even though there was a difficult court decision, the police set up a border on Wołodimirska Street, where there were no restrictions on the peace movement. There was a militia border. What was it, from your point of view: an ambush, provocation against the leaders of the opposition, or an attempt to intimidate people? And then, I have another question. Here you are, the head of the National Security Committee, as you appreciate the level of authority of today's parliament, which was created by this majority, when even you as chairman of the committee cannot know the name of the person who gave such illegal commands after the actual beating of people, after the destruction of their rights to peaceful meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u114	Thank you. Actually, two questions. The first question is, what was that? This was certainly a criminal order contrary to the Constitution and it was an execution of a criminal order. I want to remind you, they were talking about war today. After the war there was the Nuremberg Process, which gave a clear answer to the question, and it was reflected in the Constitutions, including in our military statutes, including our military statutes, giving citizens the right not to carry out a notoriously criminal order. So these people, who had stopped the perfectly legal course, went on to carry out a notoriously criminal order. We need answers. As for the role of parliament, the role of parliamentaryism and everything else. I'm really sorry to admit it, but when people's deputies stand, they look in the eyes of the officers, they call their names, and in response to the silence and they hide their eyes, we go very far. The law enforcement system becomes a criminal system, it has to be stopped.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u115	Thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues, we need more information on this matter from the Committee on the Rules of Ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Then we'll sign up for the discussion and call it a break. And I would ask the head of the commission to pay attention to how much we have here all the requirements of the relevant articles of the Rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u116	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! We are informed that the committee has not yet considered a draft order for the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the conduct of internal affairs officials during the implementation of the constitutional right to freedom of peaceful assembly of meeting participants in Kiev on 24 August 2011, submitted by Grzenko Anatoli Stepanovich, Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovic, at number 9164. The Rules Sub-Committee had previously reviewed the draft regulation and noted that paragraph 4 of the draft regulation defined the quantification of the provisional commission of the 12 Ukrainian National Deputies. However, the personal composition is offered in only 6 candidates: 3 from the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland", 2 from the "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" faction, and 1 from the "Reform for the Future" group. In addition, the draft decree proposes to include four national MPs in the commission from the faction of the Party of Regions. At the same time, part 2 of article 85 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provides that the quantification of the provisional commission is formed by taking into account the principle of proportional representation of the MPs. And then the quota for the faction of the Party of Regions is not to be 4 but to be 5 people's deputies. We are informed that the draft rulings are accompanied by an instigation of the initiators of the draft decision to all MP factions and groups on the inclusion of their representatives in the Temporary Commission, as well as the addition of the relevant agreement between the members of the members of the deputy factions "BUT" – "Fathership", "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" and the MP group "Reforms for the Future". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this discussion. First by factions, then by national MPs. Please record. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Now I'm asking the national deputies to sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the board. So, dear fellows, plan your performances. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the session room and let's continue our work. The faction will be performed by Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u119	My fellow Members, I would like us to return to the principle of an important topic, which is not really about action on 24 August, but about today's police status and today's attempt to use the police not to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens, but to serve the authorities, to serve the business and use the militia against the opposition and accordingly against the wrong business. As we look at what happened in Ukraine on August 24, Anatoly Grizzenko explained in detail. I was a participant in these activities. And indeed, there has been a situation where the order of 50 deputies, including committee heads, are authoritative people who in the Supreme Council since the late 1990s have not been able to figure out where the Special Forces came from, from Crimea, there's Dnipropetrovsk, Mikolai district, who gave them directions. And why did they decide against the statement made by KMDA Puzanova's deputy head, in spite of reports from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to stop in the middle of the city the movement of action led by the opposition with slogans and with the approach "For Ukraine!"for its democratic European development and for the occasion of the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's independence. In fact, on a daily basis, we have confirmation that today the police, especially the U.K.I.O., act as a tool of power racketeering and business involved in power, in order to either take the assets away or put them in the place of unfavourable businessmen. Today, look at what's going on, all the trading networks, the biggest markets, the most promising businesses today, through searches and the West there special departments, are facing the fact that either you're handing out a controlling stock package, or we're opening a criminal case, and we're bringing you into bankruptcy. If you look at a painting in Ukraine, we didn't have this kind of force-based raiding in the early '90s. Today, either daily killing or looking for someone, or this man flees abroad. I have a question about how we as a state can finance a militia that is now being used by clans and actually by gangs. Today I was approached by dozens of businessmen who say, "We're being stopped by the U.S.A. by bandits, with goods, we're turning to the police, and they say, "What is it? It's what we do to help bandits fight a business that's not right. ".. I am absolutely convinced that the commission of inquiry should go beyond 24 August, because it is not just the right of deputies and Ukrainian citizens to celebrate independence in their Ukrainian state. And today we have to ask the question in a way that actually governs the militia today. My impression is that the minister of the interior is not in charge of the police, and today some billionaires, on behalf of the President’s family, believe that they are in charge of Ukraine. That's why we support this decision and order the police to protect Ukrainian citizens, not billionaires, not authorities, and local officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u120	Corporal Vladimir, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u121	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, from the MP's Reform Group for the Future, we have submitted our representative, this was formerly Kaplienko Vladimir Volodymyrovich and now reporting to bring me into this commission. But they did, and I want to say this under the transcript, and they've asked the initiators of the Bill of People's Deputy Griesenka to replace Corporal Vladimir Volodymyrovich with Adherence to Gennady Alexanderovich. On this issue of substitution, we agreed this position with MacKeenk Volodymyr Vladimirovich as the head of the regulatory committee. Bullyingly, today, is not a representative who is included in any commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or a temporary special or temporary investigation. So there is no contradiction. As for the very essence of the decision, I would like to emphasise, on behalf of the parliamentary group, which we really support, in most of our own, the thesis that the police cannot interfere with the normal political life of Ukrainian citizens. And what happened on August 24 is maybe not just a big mistake by the representatives of the Navy and those people who, as a result of the committee's consideration, gave such criminal orders, did not. Therefore, the parliamentary group "For the Future Reforms" will majority vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u122	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u123	Cozub.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u124	Who? Cosub? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, in general, by supporting the proposal to create such a temporary commission of inquiry, I would like to highlight the following. That as a representative of the regulatory committee and head of the Rules Subcommittee, what we are meeting in the preparation of such regulations. We forget that this applies to every faction or national MP. In preparing this very decision, we forget that it is necessary to use and use our internal Constitution, the Rules, which clearly states how special temporary commissions are formed. And according to articles 85, 86, 87, we often have a great deal of questions about the formation of temporary commissions. What I want to point out is that the name of the temporary commission and often the name of the commission itself is defined as not what it's made for, but even the conclusions are suggested for us to accept, so that we can accept it before we form it. But most of the questions are raised in the formation of a multiplicity commission. It is clearly said that it is formed in proportion to the composition of the factions that are in the Supreme Council. Very often when making proposals, this proportion is not maintained. And the next question, which is, is that we're asking factions to send their representatives. And very often, in writing, we do not turn to factions or to the time when the question is being considered, there are no answers from the factions. So in order to protect all of us from the fact that commissions have to be created in accordance with our internal constitution, the Rules, I'm paying attention to that. Now, about this temporary commission that we're looking at right now. Indeed, the previous conclusion that we have considered and made regarding the composition of this commission shows that the commission should be made in proportion to 13 persons. People's deputies are proposing to create out of 12 people, and it is from the Party of Regions that four men are proposed, not five. If the commission is made of 13 people, then there are not even an extra half of the proposals made today. So we need to, we need to figure out the size of the warehouse and the size of the personal warehouse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u126	Thank you. Alexander Cronvolenko is a faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Then Sergey Sobolev instead of Goody.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u127	Dear friends, there was an unprecedented event on August 24 when Ukrainian citizens were prevented from crossing the streets of Kiev, their capital, on Ukraine’s Independence Day. I think it's a unique case for any country in the world. I don't think there's ever been anything like this before, that on Independence Day, absolutely law-abiding people who represent different types of Ukrainian population, including its power, and that they're not allowed to express their support for Ukraine's independence by marching through its streets. What is more, there was no ban on even going down the streets of Volodymyr. Obviously it's not a single case, obviously, that's the situation when we see that there's an authoritarian regime going on in Ukraine. It's extremely dangerous. And if someone thinks that authoritarian regime is something that can save someone's business, someone's well-being, it's absolutely not. The authoritarian regime has always brought citizens of Ukraine, citizens of any state a great deal of misery and misery. In our condition, we're not just shaping an authoritarian regime, we're monopolizing the economy for the benefit of a single criminal clan. And world history knows this when it happened when monopolized capital, large monopolized capital, and authoritarian power grew. This system of things has long been known in world history. It's called fascism. So we can say that the Fascist regime is being formed in Ukraine. But it's not Ukrainian fascism, because the Ukrainians are not attracted to fascism. So the question is, what is fascism? It would be hard to imagine, say, a Hebbelsa who would talk on the edith and not know German. Or Mussolini, who would speak in the Corsican dialect of French. So we can say that this is anti-Ukrainian fascism. I wouldn't call it preoccupational fascism, so as not to offend the people of Donbas, because they were even more affected by this regime than other Ukrainian citizens at this point. But I would call it regional fascism. And this anti-Ukrainian regional fascism must all be stopped by you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u128	Sergey Sobolev, Faction "BUT" - "Fatherland." Anatoly Grizzenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u129	Dear radio listeners! Dear colleagues! I understand that for all of us it is not a question of whether citizens of Ukraine have the right to celebrate Independence Day. Whether it will be determined by the police -- in what way and where to cover the streets, beat people, or ban the celebration of their national holiday. I think it's a key question even in another. It started with a little bit of trifle. This is an obstacle to the activities of the people’s deputies. Then we came to the point that on Independence Day the MPs of the first call and the active parliament were not allowed to pass the national flag by the move that had been defined, I emphasize, it was determined directly in the public administration, it was supported by militia personnel who said that there could be no obstacles, there was a statement directly by the deputy city administration that this was allowed, and suddenly everything changed at night. And the last case, regarding our colleague Suslov, where police officers are already being used directly to abuse him, his family. I think it's all a chain of one very scary event that, if we don't stop as parliamentarians, this mahogany will start beating at every 46 million of our fellow citizens. I understand that today's commission, I am convinced that it will be created, should answer one key question. How should internal affairs workers, special departments, S.B.I., the Ministry of Internal Affairs be used to maintain order, whether in cities or in villages? And I think it's key to us, how and who gave this criminal order to prevent the movement of a multi-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-time movement that took place on the day of the celebration of Ukraine. Any argument that there may have been some provocation is rejected at least by the fact that after this event, thousands of columns were moving along the same route during other markings and there were no problems. That's why I'm convinced that this has only been done for one purpose: to intimidate Ukrainian citizens and to show that the police state will continue to abuse you. There will be dozens of busloads of OMON, when the fight against crime on the spot will take place in the same way as it did in Odessa, or in many other cities where it is not possible to find any special forces personnel who should serve directly to protect our citizens. That's why today's answer is whether our country is turning into a country where the ball is going to be run by Yanukovich with the force or whether it really is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u130	Irina Heratchenko. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next one will be Fomin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I think that we have all looked with envy at other post-Radians countries that have celebrated their 20 years of independence loudly, beautifully, festively, because on this day in other post-Radians republics of those, particularly those who have already become members of the European Union, the authorities were with the people, and there were loud and normal celebrations. I want to remind you that for the first time in the history of Ukraine Independence Day was not celebrated at all. Maybe I don't know the history, but I don't know what Saint Vladimir has to do with the Independence Day of Ukraine when the authorities gathered there and hid themselves from the people in order to celebrate the main national holiday. On that day there were still a lot of guests in Ukraine, and they were all shocked by the fact that the main streets, the main squares were simply packed with militia, surrounded by auto-starts, as if it were a nation of criminals and potential criminals. Autozakim, thanks for the tip. And Ukraine on that day, indeed, fell, fell, more loyally, into all the world’s serpents, but not because of the celebration of its main festival, but because of it. What was happening here was that here, really, there were not only opposition politicians, but journalists who were doing their job there, but also ordinary people who happened to get into that walk and stuff. And I think it's actually a mission of power today to ask a question about a similar vote to finally answer what's going on in your law enforcement agencies, where they kill students, where they actually torture and torture those who get there. Moreover, we need to create such investigators not only on August 24th, but then on every day, when there were courts in the Pecher Court, because every day there were the same beatings, and every day there were beatings not just the opposition not just those who came to support Timoshenko and Lucenko, there were journalists beating up. And look at how many complaints are coming today from media outlets who just got under our militia's repressive car. And so today this vote should not be a vote of opposition, but, above all, a power that has declared reform, but is still under reform only seeing the arrest of Timoshenko and Lucenka. And your law enforcement agencies are struggling with who gives more mists to the opposition and the media. So it's really important today that you support this commission and figure out how it might be in a European country when a repressive apparatus, the police don't protect their citizens, they become, first of all, a terrifying monster of power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u132	National Deputy Fomin, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Davidenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u133	Please pass the word to Roman Zabzaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u134	Roman Zabzaluk, please. And the next is John the Rabbit, right? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u135	The creation of such a temporary commission of inquiry is, of course, urgent. Because today we have a number of facts: during the entire period of virtually usurpation of power in our country by this regime of pushing, including the force structures and, in particular, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the most numerous crimes, anti-constitutional actions against Ukrainian citizens. What happened on 24th Independence Day is actually an attempt to use the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the employees of this ministry against the people of Ukraine, who celebrated their legitimate Independence Day. There are many questions that need to be checked. First. Why were special tools used? How did Ukraine’s Independence Day end up in the center of the city, the capital of our independent nation? Who gave permission to apply them? Who gave permission to put snipers on the roofs of buildings on the street? These are the legitimate actions of the regime that transforms the Ministry of Internal Affairs into a repressive body, generating militia extremism against the population and people of Ukraine. Of course, today the materials of the interim commission of inquiry are essential for what? Because we are convinced, deeply convinced, in the near future, the Committee on the Resistance of Dictatorship will form a commission of inquiry into the criminal regime against the democratic foundations of the state and national security. And these facts will be added to this commission, which will undoubtedly be created and translated into state status. We want to state that actions directly from Mogilov, which transforms the Ministry of Internal Affairs into a tool for dealing with the people of Ukraine, are criminal acts. So it's obvious. The conclusions of this interim commission of inquiry will be highlighted in this regard as to the criminalization of those law enforcement officials who are categorically refusing to present certificates, who are categorically refusing to report to them who have given them a criminal order, who are simply harassing citizens during peaceful protests against the crimes of the regime, against national MPs, directly violating all legislative bases. Therefore, the interim commission of inquiry is supported and initiated.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u136	The People's Deputy Davidenko hands over the right to speak to John the Rabbit, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Stoiko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u137	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! On August 24, events highlighted a number of disturbing problems. First. As one of those who voted in this Chamber for Ukraine's independence 20 years ago, I regret how the ruling regime was organized by the government to mark the 20th anniversary of the formation of the Ukrainian State. I couldn't imagine in my dream, a nightmare that I would see a police force in Kiev just in a special mood, not in a festive form. Would that be allowed in another country when military or law enforcement officials on such a day do not go out in their holiday uniforms with their badges and so on. But we saw, as you can see, the other face of the current militia. So the honourable national MPs, the first thing we have to answer is that the main part of the ruling regime of the present power is really, as Shevchenko said, "the uncles of the foreign fatherhood." And they were removed from August 24 as Independence Day as one of the largest national shrines. Moreover, they went to the crime scene to prevent citizens from celebrating this great festival. The second question that we have to answer through this commission is what is happening to our militia, who is running it today. And we have to say frankly that today the police, all law enforcement agencies are not being used for purpose. Today's problem number one is fighting corruption, today's problem number one is fighting different kinds of crime. Where are the law enforcement authorities today? They are usually used to provide raiding property to limit the rights of citizens, but not to fight crime and fight corruption. Who, then, is in charge of these organs? Who gives these criminal orders? And I think that if we're really investigating 24 August properly, we can finally save the good name of those militias that we just used against our people, against our own state. And so we have to answer the question: Who gave these criminal orders to prevent us, to those who created this state, to those who voted in favour of the creation of the Ukrainian State on December 1, 1991, from advising the wisdom of the Ukrainian people?Oh, my God! We also have to say today that these events are not just some mistake, as one of the deputies here said. It's the nature of this power, the power that doesn't want to go to Europe today, which ignores the choice of the Ukrainian people, who don't want to modernize and reform our power, which, again today, is facing some former Soviet Union and authoritarianism. We're for this commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u138	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u139	We're for this commission to be, and finally, to conduct a normal investigation and to heal the law enforcement organs and protect the rights of citizens!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u140	Thank you. Ivan Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u141	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I ask you to pass the word to the champion of the Mogilovščina Oleg Ljašk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u142	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u143	Thank you, Sir John Stoyko, for your support of democracy. I think that the millions of Ukrainian citizens who have dealt with the police, these so-called law enforcement agencies, will actually say that there is no police in Ukraine. There are no law enforcement agencies, there are penal authorities that are persecuting Ukrainian citizens. When tens of thousands of Ukrainians are raised throughout the country to protect their rights to work, to social protection, to other constitutional rights, to the Mohil campaign, they are expelled from their children. Tens of thousands of militiamen. In the next year’s budget, they ask for 15 billion dollars to be kept by law enforcement authorities. People are good! 15 billion dollars! Why? To protect you, our constituents? Of course not. When there is no police, there is no criminal case, and there is no criminal investigation. When a woman or a family who went to a vacation in Truscavet or in Berdjansk is driven into a house through a cricket, there are no militias, and they do not investigate these crimes. When it comes to howling against people, when it comes to giving them no opportunity to protest against power, against antisocial government policies and the current power, the police are here. They have billions on helmets, on vending machines, on pistols, on busses, on gasoline, on everything they have money for. When it comes to chasing criminals, when it comes to protecting Ukrainian citizens, they don't have gas, they don't have special tools, they don't have anything. And that's why the 300,000 militias in Ukraine today are more than the army. I, my proposal, think that the citizens of Ukraine are all supportive. The first is to triple the number of militias. Half of them, many of them kill people, torture people, persecute people, and receive money from the State Budget. Earlier, one ten - village plot had been and managed everything, today in the 150 - man Paradise, and the truth will not be found there. So reduce the number of officials. And the creation of a commission of inquiry is half the case. Today, the parliamentary majority must make a decision and ask President Yanukovic to resign Mogilov. Mogilov has to resign. You're asking: do we have to figure out who was in charge? I'll tell you without any commission, the team gave Mogilov and the team gave Mogilov the power to persecute Ukrainian citizens. So there's nothing to figure out. Retire Mogilov! Retired government that persecutes citizens and restricts their constitutional rights! This is all that Ukrainian citizens require. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion of this matter. May I have your attention, please? Now we need to move on to the adoption of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to put you to a two-pronged vote, please. First. Instead of Kapleenka, as proposed by the MP, the national deputy, Zadirko. And where we're talking about the number of factions of the Party of Regions is 4, according to the quota of 5 representatives. And so we're going to have a commission of 13 national deputies. The chairman of the commission is proposed to elect Viácheslav Kirilenko, deputy head of the commission, Sergio Soboljeva. The commission’s secretary shall elect the committee at its organizational meeting. Therefore, honourable colleagues, with these clarifications in mind, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on the Establishment of a Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of the Internal Affairs Staff during the implementation of the constitutional right to freedom of peaceful assembly by the participants of the meeting on 24 August 2011 in Kiev. [[5 National Deputies from the faction of the region and representation from the Reform for the Future group will characterize Hennadi Assik]] [[Registration number 9164]] Please determine by vote. [[13:01:23]] For 172 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party 2, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 99, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 53, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 15, People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 3. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no reason for the replica. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to give me the opportunity to balance in the Supreme Council not for the benefit of one side. Dear colleagues, the verdict is accepted. Dear colleagues, please, come on. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 on the repayment of allowances and the financing of other State social security guarantees for children of war is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 8471]] How will we view it? Let's look at the whole thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u145	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, your opinion is proposed in a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the 2011 State Budget for Ukraine on the repayment of allowances and the financing of other state social guarantees to children of war. I want to give a few figures for those in the room who don't know the history of the question. In Ukraine today, there are 5 million citizens who have the status of children of war. The Children of War Act, the Social Protection of War Children Act, has been in force since 2004. Unfortunately, in 7 years of operation of this law, he has never, I stress, not only in the present power, but also in the previous authorities of the entire period of the law, he has never, unfortunately, been fully executed. As of today, 2 million, 900,000 Ukrainian citizens have appealed to the courts for the purpose of implementing the Law on the Social Protection of War Children. Of these 3 million cases, 1 million 200,000 cases have been dealt with and court decisions have been made to pay their children a war of due pay. One million 700,000 cases have been considered, decisions have been made legally, but no money has been paid. The total court debt to children of war is 9 billion dollars today. I want to remind you that according to the government's decisions, today the children of war receive 49 dollars a month's pension. And according to the law, they're supposed to get 250 dollars a month to pay their pension. Regrettably, the present - day authority, which has already budgeted twice for the current years, has ignored its electoral promises, where children were promised full compliance with the requirements of the law. They even signed in writing on what they were going to do, said they were going to take the money in the bottle before the election. After the election, they came to power, they took the money out of the tubers, they took the money for themselves, they took the money, they put it in, and they didn't give people anything. And the government of Azarov illegally, in violation of the Constitution, violates the laws by its decrees, determines the order and extent of payments to children of war. Although in accordance with article 95 of the Constitution, this is to be done under the State Budget Act for the current year. 80,000 people died without payment, with the court’s decision on their hands, and they did not receive the money. And today their heirs, these children of war, the Kingdom to them in heaven, these miserable ones who have died without waiting for their money, their heirs cannot receive this money. Children of war instead of sitting at their grandchildren' homes babysitting, they go to court for years, three to five years, in the courts of the first instance, in appeals courts, in the court of cassation. They go to rallies, to protest against antisocial government policies, to demand copies that belong to them by law. Two hundred and fifty dollars a month in retirement benefits. Show me in this room at least one national MP who counts what 250 dollars is. And grandparents, children of war count that money. Because 250 bracelets that are not being added by today's law enforcement authority is the inability to buy a pill, it's the inability to buy candy for children, it's for many millions of children of war the inability to buy a piece of bread, they have nothing to pay for, they're being evicted from their homes because they don't have money. And you, for the most part, are the government! Where is the government when such an important issue is addressed?Oh, my God! You take away those unfortunate ones who grew up in fascism, who rebuilt the country that made you sit and eat, and you take these last copies. And that's why I'm saying I'm proposing a change to the State Budget Act, which provides for a billion dollars this year to pay to the children of war. Every child of war, every needy person of old age, when we adopt this law, gets an extra 200 dollars. They're waiting. They're expecting this money from you. You're talking about a budget overrun. You're saying that you have an extra 50 billion dollars of income, give this 50 billion dollars to at least a billion children in the war. And you take it from yourself, you don't have the money to make the war. And when you're treated, you're 450 million -- the next year the government provides for the treatment of officials. You have 120 million in a sanatorium where you're going to relax with your mistresses and you don't have any money for the children of war. And that's why I'm saying, we have to stop this shameful antisocial policy, we have to finally think about the people that you're making out with, today in Parliament, we have to finally mention these people who are looking at how you're making fun of them, how you're making fun of their misery. Because you're not around people, you don't know what it's like to count a penny to a penny, you don't know what it's like to die from the inability to buy a pill, from the inability to get to a hospital, because in a village, the cities shut down the FAPs, shut down schools, shut down everything in the world. People are left behind on their own. They get a piece of bread once a week, and you don't give them the opportunity to get what's rightfully theirs. Exorcise the government where the government where Azarov is, go report to the people, expel them for years in the courts, the old ones who are barely walking. You go to the courts, you see how there's dead corridors, how these miserable people, they barely walk, their grandchildren lead to him coming to court and condemning his miserable coin. And tens of thousands of them died without waiting for this judgment. And you don't scream, you don't bark, because I tell you what every time I see you, these people tell me. I have dozens of meetings every day. The most painful thing is that people have nothing to feed their families for, they have nothing to support their children, they have nothing to buy medicine for, why buy bread, and you laugh. You're laughing at the citizens who sent you here, who thought you'd protect their interests, and you're only defending your own interests. You only care about yourself. You're thinking about how to protect criminal disgrace instead of protecting the children of war. I mean, the Chernobyls, the Afghans, the veterans, the disabled, the children of war, to your knowledge, tomorrow there's Bill 9127 in the Supreme Council. This is the bill they want to take away your benefits with silence, no publicity, so get up, the Constitution gives you rights to do so. Get up, go to the Supreme Council and don't leave here until this disgraceful bill is rejected until you, children of war, get the money you deserve until the government budget that will be adopted tomorrow provides for all the payments that are made to you by law. Otherwise, you will go back to court and to retirement funds for years. And they're going to play you, and they're going to disrespect you, because they're going to say there's no money in the budget. That's what the authorities are predestining! And this power thinks that when it comes from you weak, unhappy, elderly people are surrounded by three meters away, they think they're hiding, that they'll escape responsibility? No! No! You can't hope for anything! Because people will ask you soon. And each one of you. I propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this law supporting 5 million children of war, the results of the vote are distributed throughout the country. Let them, when they leave before the elections, promise the golden mountains again, let them know how they fulfilled these laws, how they kept their promises when they sat in parliament and had the opportunity to do so. Dear children of war! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear Ukrainians, all who suffer from today’s power! We'll protect you! We won't let you have lunch with this authority! This government won't last long. It's the colossus on the clay legs! You, we'll do everything we can to get you what's legal. And the authority that encroachs on you, which robs you of a piece of bread, we will expel this authority from you along with your support!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! The report is complete. Dear colleagues, I'm still, dear colleagues, you don't have to tell. Since the issue of complete procedure is being considered and no one else has made any suggestions, there is a question for the rapporteur. Please sign up, your honors. And I would like to support the hot appeal of our national MP, our colleague and to publish, including, as in 2008, all the benefits, including those relating to children of war, have been eliminated and stopped. Starting with the adoption of this law. Then I think we'll think more about how to find opportunities than how to blame each other. So let's do it, let's publish it. Dear colleagues, we will publish everything. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. 5 minutes according to the Rules. Question formulation is one minute, answer is up to two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, the word is Alexander Blackwolf, in question-making, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u147	Dear Mr. Lazko, I think you've narrowed down the subject a little bit, because these civil servants live in their sanitariums not only with lovers but also with lovers, but even with lovers and lovers at the same time. () [[B in m in s a l in]] And that's true! We have to take action here. But even more, I think they're eating not only in sanatoriums, but also in the hunting farms that these bastards gave 100 million from the state budget in July 2011, just before they fattened there with lovers. 100 million for private hunting, this money would have to be given to you, too. And for the next year, 500 want!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u148	Dear Alexander Vilenovich, I agree with you absolutely. I want to get to know Ukrainian citizens about this information. The following year a billion dollars were raised to support the State Judicial Administration. We're told there's no money. To keep the President is one and a half billion dollars. At the Public Administration Sanatorium, 102 million dollars. The Attorney General's Office is 3 billion dollars. Militia is 15 billion dollars. We're told by the government about the overturning of the revenue of the state budget this year by 50 billion dollars, and the implementation of the law on social protection of children of war for this, they don't have the money to implement this law. And so, the money, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, you say, let the crane know its heroes, publish all those who didn't vote in favour of budgets, where proposals were made for children of war to pay these necessary costs, and you can find money by reducing the government apparatus. We have 300,000, 500,000 officials in Ukraine. The benefits are like a goat's milk, they need five of these officials, and these.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u149	No, respectable colleagues, well, there are others. We've got 16 people on board. Gordijenko Sergei, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u150	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Well, all of Ukraine has heard such a flaming talk, such flaming appeals. Of course we spoil the honor and dignity of the children of war because we don't obey the law, we kill them in the courts, we then in the appeals courts, then, if there are those decisions, we don't do them. This should not be the case and there is no such thing in any State. But tell me, as deputy head of the budget committee, as one of the leaders of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, and there you cooked this budget kitchen in 2008, as Vladimir Mihajlovich reminded you, you have repeatedly blocked our bills, not paid. [[Simonenko, Martinyuk, Gordijenko, Matviev]] Why do you call for such a fiery cry before the elections today? Then you took one position, today. And a little bit of your runabouts, which in Ukraine, you'd give to the children of war.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u151	I think that if the communist leaders who live in state houses and in the hands of the public service payments never hold, then they will come out of those state-owned houses that have 150 million dollars in the next year’s budget, you will have a substantial pension allowance for the children of war. For failure to comply with the decisions of the courts. That's right, one and a half million decisions today that have not been made. General debt on court decisions in favour of children of war in Ukraine is 9 billion dollars. As I said before, 80,000 people, children of war, died without waiting for these payments. And that's why I initiated the adoption of this law, and this law was registered six months ago. And it's not my problem that the Supreme Council didn't miss it to review this law as soon as possible. And if we took a quick look at it, maybe those people who didn't survive and didn't wait for their payments today would be able to get those payments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u152	Kilincarov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u153	Although you are so reluctant to address our faction, I want to tell you that the Company of Ukraine has always consistently defended interests, including those of children of war. And what you've come up with today as an argument when your Government was, and you've been the vice-chairman of the budget committee, and I want to add, the Government has left you 24 billion bracelets at the moment, you haven't found 1 billion dollars to give to children of war. Today, of course, this problem needs to be solved, and people are waiting for it. But I would like to see a measure of political responsibility and all those who speak from this rostrum. You're trying to be in opposition today, yes, but you don't want to be responsible for the decisions you've made while you're in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u154	Dear comrade of Kilinkarov! I pointed out in my statement that the Law on the Social Protection of Children of War has not been fully implemented by any authority, and that, today, and this, which was before, and before, has not been fully implemented since 2004. And it's a disgrace for us, for the legislators, to the government that we're not trying to enforce these laws. And today, by reporting this law, protecting this multimillion-dollar audience of war children, I am correcting, including the mistakes that have been made. By Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, you should be able to admit your mistakes. I admit that I did not work hard to protect the children of war. Today I am doing this to force this power to carry out both the Law on the Protection of Children of War and the Law on the Protection of Chernobyl and other categories of Ukrainian citizens who today suffer from antisocial power.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u155	Yes, thank you, time's up. Have a seat, please. I invite the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Baranov Valeriyovich, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u156	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The proposed bill by the Committee on Budget Issues considered September 7th of the year. The bill proposes to increase the expenditure of the Pension Fund for a special fund by 1 billion dollars to pay to children of war, raised to pensions under the Law on the Social Protection of War Children. However, the bill does not contain specific proposals for sources of compensation for additional public budget expenditure. According to the Ministry of Finance, the adoption of the bill is undervalued, and its implementation will require more than 10 billion dollars a year to be recovered from the state budget. Thus, the bill is not balanced in terms of revenue and expenditure of the State budget, which does not meet article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the requirements of the Budget Code. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council also notes that the legislative proposal is not balanced. In addition, the bill does not meet the requirements of legislation in the drafting of bills to amend the State budget. According to the review, Bill 8471 of the Committee on Budget Issues decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, if you have any questions for the committee head, please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u158	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Head, I would like to ask you that, by rejecting this bill, you obviously did not consider that the rules of the Constitution provide for the obligation to execute court decisions. And that's one thousand. One million, 700,000 claims of war children have already been made by the courts, no one in the state today. Even Yanukovich himself, he's told you about this many times, he can't forbid you. Azarov has forbidden it. Your committee is now also forbidding it. That's not right! You understand that this violates the Constitution. That's the first one. And the second. I'd like you to be an experienced parliamentarian and the mayor of the city to evaluate the orders that are now going on in the government of Azarov when he says: don't follow the decisions of the courts. And the third. We now have 100,000 unregistered appeals in every appeal board.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u159	I understand your question. That's what I'm trying to say. Each problem has its own cause. And we are really discussing the most important problem. And it's not just one problem, we have unfulfilled decisions or social policy laws worth 160 billion grivens. These commitments have never been fulfilled or fulfilled by any Government of Ukraine, and we are all well aware that it will not be able to fulfil them. That is why this is the reason, and the consequence is that, indeed, people are forced, and 39 per cent of them, to go to court, the others do not even apply, to go to all courts, to demand the enforcement of the law, to demand justly. Instead of reviewing the bill with the Government: we need to inventory the social policies of our own, all of our bills, we need to increase the funding of the poor, the participants in the fighting, and the Afghans who participated in the hostilities, and we need to abandon the benefits that have been attributed illegally. For example, I don't know if I've seen Carmazin, which is in the decree that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u160	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u161	In the resolution that we will consider tomorrow, for the first time on the initiative, we will double with Lukyanov, supported Vladimir Mihajlovich Litwin, we will consult with the Prime Minister, we will offer you to give up the MP's benefits. And we have to start with ourselves. I think you'll support our initiative tomorrow. This will be the case, and ridicule and clowning on this issue will be done by many today, especially before the elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u162	Vladimir Karpuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u163	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear Valery Alexiyovich, we have already been promised a great deal of benefits. By percentage, 30-40 percent, in some areas, up to 50 percent of the total. That's understandable. But when will this inventory be carried out? And generally, if. I've already learned about the proposed 2012 budget committee, if you look at it, you can call it pre-election. Because there is already a very large number of funding under the future election law in certain areas, where representatives who are sitting in this room will go through the established structures; where the proposals of other deputies are rejected. Why not use these funds to increase the minimum wage, wages, benefits to black people, Afghans, and children of war? That's why it's cynical when it sounds like "we want to put things in order," and at the same time, we're putting these violations in perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u164	Well, I don't think we can relate one problem to another. The socio-economic development of the Territories has been, will be and must be, and there is another problem that we are talking about today. The task of our committee, I believe, has been met. We will be with you tomorrow, if you support me, and we will have the Cabinet of Ministers update all the rejected amendments proposed by the working group, and the Cabinet of Ministers will have to consider them by the second reading. In addition, from the Committee, we will propose to the Government a list of the problems that exist today, the most relevant and systemic ones, and we will write out, in our view, mechanisms for the implementation of these problems so that some of these problems can be implemented jointly by the 2013 budget. But I am addressing those who are sitting on the right side of me: let us unite more to find solutions to these problems than to build our policies before the elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u165	Yes, thank you, time's up. Sit down, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions. Please sign up directly for the national MPs. Yes, Yuri Baldirev, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u166	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we are discussing a bill that has been passed to us as a legacy from the previous trend in our society, which began in the era of the collapse of the Soviet Union, when the entire task of the Ukrainian deputies was to enact as many concessional laws as possible and thus to reduce contributions to the Union budget. This trend persists for 20 years. Therefore, it is possible to argue with the situation, and the reasons for the situation can be discussed. But as long as we do not realize that all power and legislative and executive independence from those in power are responsible for the situation in the country as a whole, that we no longer have the opportunity to take that money, there is no long-standing federal budget. Therefore, we must look for mutually acceptable topics, to get on such topics more easily. And, by the way, I think that, in fact, such statements and the introduction of such bills have long ceased to have the necessary effect, because not only the participants themselves in the process in this room, but also the voters have long understood the true situation of things in the State. Everyone understands that to share something, you have to earn it first. That is why I invite our colleague, the drafter of this bill, especially since we are working on a committee, to take an integrated approach. I am prepared to work with him in a working group to draft some systemic law that would allow us to bring the situation into a logical order, if all proposals aimed at improving the lives of concessional groups, and generally of all voters, were balanced with the country's capabilities, with the economic opportunities that we all earn together as a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u167	Andrey Pavlovski, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u168	Andrey Pavlovski, Yulia Block Timoshenko "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! Dear children of war! The government of Azaro's budget changes this summer effectively suspended the Act on the Social Protection of Children of War. And they both got 49 dollars 80 dollars, and they keep getting them, even though they have to get several times more, according to the law in force. And by the way, for the first time, it was to the children of war that Julia Timoshenko started paying. Friends, for the government it's really a problem, it can't pay off these benefits. But at the same time, the author of the bill offers only 1 billion dollars, within the state, it's not that big of a cost, because Janukovich and his services go up to one and a half billion dollars. Could it reduce these challenges, reduce the number of helicopters, residences, and golden toilets in the Midlands? And only for this year have changes been made: the children of war have been reduced by funding, Yanukovich and his family have increased by 320 million dollars just this year. And so, the authorities are going even further, and she thinks that in general, the disgraceful Law 9127 restricts or even eliminates social benefits not only for children of war but also for Afghans, for black people, for 16 more categories of citizens. And this law has not been taken into account, as the Chernobyls and Afghans demanded. And by the way, just because of the Chernobyl and Afghan storm, it's delayed, but there's no money for these benefits, there's no social benefits in the 2012 budget. And children of war need to understand that this year 2011 has become a year of increasing poverty and at the same time a record of retaining power and spending money. And the same trend continues for 2012 because it's proposed to heal the senior authorities to spend 465 million, and to support all the disabled, veterans of the Great War of Homeland, a little over 100 million. Compare, loving authorities spend 4 times more on themselves than on socially vulnerable groups themselves. And so I believe that the Law on the Children of War has to be done, there are funds for it, there is a way to find them, there is only the desire and will of the active authorities. Unfortunately, she only has the will to enrich herself, because the number of billionaire ministers in the last year in the government of Azarov has only increased, and the number of poor people in our country is increasing. And they planned that the number of the poor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u169	Yes, Yuri Carmazin faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin. Honorable national MPs, proposed by law, on the draft law? It is proposed to increase the amount of $1 billion in grants to the Ukrainian Pension Fund for pensions, allowances and payments, including the Social Protection of War Children Act. That's a big sum, isn't it? Let's see. The Olympics, which stands here in two blocks, spent 5 billion 600 million dollars. What's done is done! The most expensive seats are so immeasurably placed. What, he's worth that kind of money? What will happen next if we support him? So it's just one sixth that's now being proposed in the budget. I'm addressing the esteemed head of the budget committee, don't you know, don't you see there's already gone to the airport in Donetsk a few billion? Can't you see that? Already the second billion have been added, the bill. What could be done, should we do, or should we not do so? The government, if it comes and is not governed by laws, it is not governed by the people, what does it do? It's coming. She cannot fulfill these obligations, but she was unable to master not only English but mathematics. I think all the benefits could be released right now, all of these costs, they need to be funded and raised by domestic demand, and they can bring the economy back to life. And not thoughtlessly, just to eat up that money that's about to be spent. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation that has arisen in the courts is not catastrophic, it is abusive in terms of the way people are treated. You see, they make decisions in appeals courts, they don't. Over a million decisions are not being implemented. There's only one decision being made in the country, so if you'll excuse me, an unsavory judge whose last name is "K" and ends with "B," that's the only decision that's being made, because that's what Timoshenko needs to be taken into custody. We even thought of putting pressure on the witnesses in Lucenka’s case, and this is at the expense of the budget. And that's not shown in court. Thousands today, where thousands, hundreds of thousands only in the Kyiv Court in an administrative complaint. This calls for the adoption of this law. This is the position of the vast majority of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u171	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. The next will be Vasil Evtukhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u172	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, when we were looking at this bill on the expert board of the parliamentary group, on the one hand, they were divided into two parts. The first part said that the children of war are really every father, our grandparents, our mothers, even those present in this room, probably 70 percent refer to this category. Should public policy efforts be directed to protect the interests of such citizens? Of course you do. But the other side, what's the score? I would like to look to history when an appropriate bill was passed in 2001 and the source or source of payment to the children of the war was not found. And when today's high enough, strong humiliation of every citizen of Ukraine who has to hang the "child of war" bill is coming from an active legislation that has not been able to find the source of these budgets. Today, I was in Odessa last week in my constituency. My mother's relatives came to me in 1938-1939 and asked me how the National MP was doing: "The government that we do, we want to do, we haven't received, we haven't applied to children of war once. I put my eyes down, I don't know what to tell them. Since we need to go to court, we need to appeal to the Ukrainian Retirement Fund, which is supposed to pay these costs for some reason. However, such payments are not secured by the law in force. The sources of this payment are not established by the law in force. So let's go with you, if we've made the right decisions in 2008-2009, let's go to this bill in a completely different way, let's not pry on it, let's not blame each other, let's not make the misunderstandings about funding, why 1 billion, not 10, as Minfin concludes. Why are we now in violation of the current Code of Budget? Why aren't we systematic at all? In order for there to be no abuse in this area, because, let me remind you, some of the money that needs to go to the life of the children of war goes to the lawyers or to the other nimble people who live on it. Therefore, the parliamentary group of Reforms for the Future will, for the most part, not support this bill, but stand ready to set up its own shoulders and join the working group that will be formed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a systematic recast of the existing law on the protection of children of war and the protection of the interests of this category of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u173	Vali Evtukhov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next to the Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. The national deputies will continue to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u174	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to say that the bill, the attitude towards the bill, is ambiguous, because on the one hand, none of the deputies here have any doubt that people should be helped. But on the other hand, I think it's clear to many that people should be helped by concrete actions, not by talking, by slogans, or by talking. The author of the bill, when he spoke from the rostrum, rightly said that this Law No. 2195 had never been implemented since its adoption. How can you do so? I'd give all of you a familiar saying that if you don't know how to do it, you should do it by law. And for us, for MPs, the law is the Supreme Council's Rules and article 8, paragraph 2, of the Budget Code, which says that when offering expenses in the bill, we need to know and propose where to get them from. Which is not done. And that's probably why it's probably not done when they first passed this law, so it's not being implemented. What does the author propose by passing this bill? He suggests that we take saved, more faithful, not saved, but off-planned incomes of this year, 2011 and give it back. In principle, no one denies it. But the question is, where do you get the money, if in 2012 or in 2025, will any other year not have these pre-planned expenses? Re-gathering the Supreme Council and filing, and voting? So I think we need to focus on the Supreme Council to adopt laws that are being implemented. And the weights of the Supreme Council are all in order to be bound by the laws already passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u175	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Then there'll be a speech by Alexander Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u176	Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian veterans' council, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! First, what we saw and heard before. Well, what we've seen and heard, I call a monospectral of one actor's theater. If one of the radio audiences or television audiences is experiencing a situation that may happen to a person after such a talk, do not worry. He walked out of the rostrum and laughed! He laughed at you, of those people whom he had taken seriously to rob. I mean the fact that, during the activities of the governing structures of this orange regime, he was the first deputy head of the budget committee, and he didn't work so hard for the children of war today to find themselves in the situation in which he described it so eloquently. And now it's about the essence of the law and the substance of the proposal. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, first of all, has consistently supported all legislative acts that dealt with the social protection of the least vulnerable groups. I'll say more, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Sergey Volodymyrovich, deputy director of the faction, passed similar bills. But what is the difference between the position of the Company of Ukraine and other positions? And it's that we consistently, regardless of the faction's condition, we're constantly voting for these documents. Other colleagues: when in opposition -- they support when in power -- they don't vote. That's the difference, actually. Well, most of all, what I was about to say is that they're respected colleagues. Indeed, the category of children of war is one of the least protected categories of Ukrainian citizens. These are really the people who were born right before the Great Homeland War or during the Great Homeland War, who suffered a lot from the war and worked hard to rebuild the nation's agriculture after the Great Homeland War. And I think we need to look for opportunities to really protect ourselves socially. The law provides real de facto two benefits: this is a 30 percent pension allowance and a 25 percent housing-communal benefit. That is why the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support the same way it has always supported these bills and do everything to support this least disadvantaged population category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u177	Dear people's deputies, Alexander Czervolenko now has the word, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u178	Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear friends, well, first of all, we should thank Oleg Lazka for raising this question, absolutely right, the right question. Because we really don't have the money to do the European Court's decision, to do the Ukrainian Constitution and Ukrainian laws, and instead we have the money to write off the debt of the skyline in the amount of 24 billion, or to disburse 14 billion dollars of the economy of the extra budget, based on the fact that in 2010, when you made the 2011 budget, we didn't specifically count that money so that it could then be fished out. So I would like to point out that the proposal is absolutely correct, and the money for it is in the budget. As for the sources of arrivals, they are absolutely correct. What's more, we can review our decision in July when we've recorded hundreds of millions of dollars and billions of dollars on the sink when we've given individual locations to members of the majority, from the Party of Regions that will be floating there. Or let's say they gave the same famous 100 million dollars to hunting farms that are all privately owned. By the way, this year, the head of the budget committee was speaking and he said there was a little restriction on the deputies. They had to be restricted much more. But in what part was it limited? In part, free travel is available for the purpose of meeting with voters in the election year, for there is only a limit for 2012. In 2011, it's going to be in 2013 and in 2012 it's going to be in order that the MPs don't meet the voters before the elections, so that the Party of the Regions will be easier to fake the elections, they'll write that they don't have to. But at the same time, there's a shipment of 650 million, once again, in the districts that are assigned to those deputies, read, there's 3 million, 5 million, give it to that village or so, the ears of those deputies that are going to be floating there. So we have to give money to people, give money to pensioners, to children of war, to those who are most in need. And such proposals, once again, I would like to emphasise, should be welcomed and voted for, taking into account that we must ensure the implementation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, and the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u179	Vladimir Karpuk. Who? Ah, Yuri Prokopchuk, please give your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u180	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected Ukrainians, respected colleagues! When a bill is introduced, which is why today's authorities have been in opposition for three months, it's been under this rostrum, demanding the introduction of this law, and now there's an argument that there's no funds, so here's a question for me. Why are there strong structures under the walls of the Pecher Court to gather all the animals from Ukraine, to be overthrown from all parts of Ukraine? How much is that for the budget? Who counted? Who Will Answer? Can it not be directed to the children of war? Obviously you can. Why do we have a "Rosukreenergo", a "Firtash", a "Boyko", a 24-billion-dollar "Lyvocchen" in the pocket of a taxpayer like the write-off of the "Oblgazenergo" debt and so on? Why? Is there any money for that? Yes, because it's Ljovczyn's own funds, Firthash and Boyka, and Rosukreenergo's. Why is tomorrow again a bill that leaves not only the benefits but the social guarantees of the 16 categories of our citizens? Dear citizens, it will be tomorrow, and most will vote again. You were put to sleep when you went under the walls of the Supreme Council in separate categories, and tomorrow this law with some cosmetic adjustments will be passed. So, why so much? Why the repressive apparatus that is now destroying democracy in Ukraine, which today has just been unlawfully condemned by Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, by other politicians. And it's all practically the Cabinet of Ministers. And for that power that is currently being adopted, and all the questions that are called "humanization" are being eliminated. It's already in the first reading. Political article 58, however, is not open to consideration. It's called article 365 today. So is it going to be 1 billion dollars today in an independent Ukraine to end up asking the final question and not speculating on it about those who really have to live, who have endured all their hardships, famines and who have today. have the social security that has long been laid down in Ukrainian legislation. That's why my colleagues and I all support this bill. Show wisdom, show courage, and support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! Lila Grigorovich, Stanislav Arzhewitten, is transferred to John the Rabbit. We've got four minutes left. I mean, six minutes to Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u182	Thank you. Ivan Zjec, Ukrainian People’s Party. I don't like the way we talk about it. It's a very serious question, a social issue, it concerns the poorest people in our Ukraine. But I can see that most people have just closed up: you, the opposition, speak to yourself there, and we will not give you the votes, and that will be the question. I think the venerable majority, it's a question that can't be closed in this way. Why can't you? Let's do it first. Let's see. Because we're dealing with very poor people. They're usually pensioners. Most of these people live in the village, they have no funds, they have no health today to work in those areas, and today they would like to have any help today, and you make it seem as if there is no such problem, as if it were an oligarch who doubles or triples his wealth in one year. This is about very poor people. That's the first one. The other one. We have a court issue today. If we are really saying that we need to raise the status of the court, that we want to carry out judicial reform, that we want to restore the image of a normal European court, then tell me, please, how can we not pay those people where the court has ordered the state to pay these costs? So again, it's about the fact that the authorities have to answer that question. And you don't have to hide, your esteemed majority, from the answer to that question. There's a third question. It's a question of finding sources. Again, no one wants to talk in essence. You're saying that "we're doing very well, we have the best government today, we have several tens of millions of budget surpluses," and where do you use it, this budget surplus, these costs? Let's see. The wise authorities would use these funds in two ways: the bulk would be for development, that is, for future development, to solve the problems that we are facing in a few years, and the second part of the money would be for the support of those who cannot make ends meet. That's how normal authority would work. What do we see today? I'm writing the same bill on the State Budget: military spending, zero, support to normal sectors, zero, but we see how these costs grow along the state line, along the line of power. That's the wrong way to go. We need to save today because we're in a deep crisis. There's another wave of crisis knocking on our door. And if we don't learn by means, if we don't learn to maintain normal social support, if we don't see this poor person first and their tens of millions, we won't save Ukraine, we won't change the situation. And the authorities should finally understand that today the potential of resentment, dissatisfaction with people is very great. I read in newspapers that there was a recent meeting of pensioners in Chercas. Why were thousands or two thousand gathered there? From a very simple example, for local authorities have eliminated the passage of these people to some number of trolleybuses. If they had previously been able to ride free on all the trolleybuses, today they were assigned one or two trolleybuses. And the authorities thought she'd come out, say a few words to people, and people would calm down. And it didn't work out that this thousand or one and a half thousand of these people actually went to power. I mean, what am I leading to? I'm leading you to the fact that you can't play with people today because you've already crossed any line in this social inequality. People understand exactly what kind of cars our ministers or our deputies or someone else are driving. Show me one rich man or a member of the frontal authority who would move a car more cheap at this time. You won't find any. On the contrary, these cars change each year, and they are more expensive and expensive and more expensive. And they think their lives are going to be happening all the time just in this car, where all these air conditioners are, all these different things. So I think that, after all, the people's deputies, we're going to have to answer that question, and we have to allocate this billion, it's not that big an amount. But it is essential that we speak today. The source of the coming. Don't you know that we have a shadow economy of at least 60 percent? What does that mean? This means that at least 50 percent of the State budget doesn't, it's the money that's sitting in offshors, it's the money that rich people spend on that money. So let's finally think about how to fight this corruption, think about how to fight this crime. And one more thing, let's think, well, you can't build an economy on the ideology of exports and imports. But you can see that if the external markets are shrinking, our exports are falling, the metal is falling, the chemistry is falling, the agriculture is falling. Where do you get the money? No, let's get some more imports into it. Where is the manufacturer’s own bet? Where are the costs to stimulate national production and to create jobs from there, and where do we get all the costs? So, dear friends, today's question is not just a pinnacle of opposition to the majority, but today's question is the key question for our authority: either we find a real way out of this crisis, or we see a person, and first of all this poor person, or still this authority will serve the oligarchs and make it look like they can hide behind the militia's machines. Don't hide! That's why I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I remind you of the committee's conclusion. It's about recommending that the Supreme Council reject the bill. One minute, let's finish the question. The main scientific and expert office also made a statement to the bill. At the same time, honourable national MPs, in accordance with the requirements of the Rules, put to the vote the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the State Budget 2011 Act on the repayment of allowances and the financing of other state social guarantees to children of war. [[Registration number 8471]] [[13:59:12]] For 135 Just a minute. The decision is not taken. It's a bill. I can put to the vote for the recast, but I can't see the votes. I'm voting on a motion to re-read. Please identify yourself. [[13:59:49]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies! One minute, because we're not gonna make it, I'm not gonna make it to the factions. Replica was demanded by a national deputy, since his name was mentioned as the author and the first leader. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules. I'm asking you to give us one minute, because we're going to have more scandals. Please! Please! I'm going according to the Rules. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u184	Oleg Lazko. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, respected children of war, those who need the help of the state today, you have seen this majority vote: it does not support you, it ignores your interests, it disrespects you, it ignores what you have to eat for, what to live for. Therefore, draw conclusions as to where you live, what kind people are, and what authority we have. And don't God let any of you in the next election give at least one vote for this lying authority. And I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, announce that the whole country knows who did not vote for the children of war, who did not vote for the children of war, who did not have a penny to their poverty, where they lived, who did not want them to have a better chance of living. Let the whole country know!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-19-m0.u185	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in agreement with all the heroes to be announced. In 2008, I recall that 102 laws stopped at 105 billion. It is necessary to publish both those actions, and the actions of today, to publish everything, let's not like people. Dear people's deputies, this morning. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 84, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 17, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, National Party – 0, non-fractional – 3. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. From 16 hours of work on committees and factions. Tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its plenary work from 10 a.m. to Thursday, October 20. Thank you.
