ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:07]] Cards were registered in the 344 national deputies in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Party, my dear colleagues, today is the 70th anniversary of the beginning of the massive underground guerrilla movement in Ukraine in the years of the Great Homeland War. Dear colleagues, let us welcome all our fellow countrymen, veterans with this memorable event, and wish them good health, as well as confirm that our memory of those who protected the homeland will always be active, will always help us to understand the past in order to better appreciate our present and future. [[Applause]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on September 21, 2011. 11 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, 1 law was passed, 1 bill was turned back to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, and 10 bills were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague Sergio Mikolaiovich Mosak. Please welcome him. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the work of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Andrey Petrovich Clovis, as well as the heads of the district councils. Dear colleagues, the schedule you were given has been filled with a tragic technical error. This is about the inclusion in the agenda of the daily bill, given to you on schedule number 9161, and we need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2011. [[on the payment of wages to miners]] In view of this clarification, I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the payment of wages to miners]] Please vote. [[10:04:20]] For 297 Decision taken. Thank you. And I'm asking the committee, because he's already considered this issue and I'm asking you, Your Honor, to make a final decision at the evening meeting on this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a draft Professional Law. The draft Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for 2012 and the main development directions for 2013 and 2014 and the second issue is the presentation of the draft Law on Ukraine's State Budget for 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, it is suggested that this rule, the procedure for dealing with these two issues, to report and to report on the first and second questions, on the first and second questions, then to discuss the two issues immediately, are interlinked. The decision to make is, of course, that we will be separate. The two questions are suggested to be considered within 2.5-3 hours of the deadline: for the report on the first and second questions, up to 10 minutes, the answers to the questions, up to five minutes; for the co-reports, respectively, 5 and 3; further, for the factions, 30 minutes, for the speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies, 45 minutes, and a closing word of three minutes. Also in the decision-making process, we're going to need to give three minutes to report on the second question, because a draft Decision on the rejection of the Ukrainian State Budget project has been introduced. In accordance with the Rules, honourable colleagues, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Budget Code in the process of considering the submission of the State Budget of Ukraine may decide to reject the bill, i.e. the draft State Budget Act. If it does not refuse, it becomes the property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine prepares it for consideration in the first reading. So we're going to be looking at this issue somewhere. These questions are somewhere within 2.5-3 hours. That's the deviation from the procedure, because if you follow the procedure, every question is 45 minutes. Is there no objection to such a rule? It's okay, thanks. So, honourable colleagues, I am announcing the first question, the draft Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme 2012 and the main development directions for 2013-2014. The rapporteur is the first Vice-Prime Minister, Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Andri Petrovich Kljevov, co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexy Vitaliyovich Plotnikov. Please, Andrew Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! It's only been a year and a half since our coalition came to power. During this period, positive trends have been restored to economic growth and social security. In recent years, however, the system of government has almost completely lost its socio-economic planning and development functions. There are only forecasts and a bunch of uncoordinated and budgetary funding available for public targeted, sectoral and regional programmes, most of which need to be reviewed. As a result, it was not possible to ensure a balanced and balanced economic development, to avoid intersectoral imbalances, mismatches in demand and consumer market offers, including those of other products. For this reason, insufficient attention was paid to the development of those sectors of the economy that work in the internal market. As a result, many jobs were lost, and social problems were exacerbated. The country received a huge negative foreign trade balance and a deterioration in the balance of payments. The industry’s production programs were designed without taking into account the needs of adjacent industries, real needs, and the cost - effective demand of the population. This inhibits the progressive development of the country. It weakens the efforts of the authorities and balances the effectiveness of economic and social policies, and it also negatively affects the country's international image and strengthens its low ratings by many criteria and estimates. In order to remedy the situation and improve the governance and regulation of large-scale economic reforms, a new model of socio-economic development of the country and appropriate programming governance is needed. To this end, the Cabinet of Ministers, with the participation of local executives, has prepared a project for Ukraine’s State Economic and Social Development Programme for 2012 and forecasts for 2013 and 2014. The programme is based on a concept previously approved by the government, based on which the 2012 budget process was launched. We've changed our approach to preparing these kinds of documents. On the basis of the socio-economic assessment of each region and the assessment of the state of the economy, we have identified the potential for the development of the national economy. The country's development parameters in the following year describe the aggregated socio-economic indicators presented in the programme in terms of sectoral and territorial cuts, based on the data of enterprises, organizations and institutions on their production programmes and projects. Another feature of the national programme is that it has become the basis for the formation and rational use of public financial resources according to defined goals, priorities and tasks. The programme is a comprehensive, balanced and coherent document aimed at the implementation of state policy in all sectors of the economy and the social sphere, in all directions of national, social and human development. This document clearly identifies priorities and ways of achieving them and assesses the necessary financial resources. The aim of the programme is to gradually improve the level and quality of life of citizens on the basis of economic growth, which in turn will be based on state-created conditions for positive structural distortions, increased national competitiveness. It was logically from the stability to the shift of emphasis towards the reconstruction of the economy that the government formed the program. The strategic basis of the document is the presidential election programme of President Viktor Fedorović Janukovič "Ukraine for the People" and the programme of economic reforms for 2010-2014 entitled "Affordable Society". A competitive economy. An effective nation." The programme sets out the following priorities from each direction of reform: first, to ensure conditions for socio-economic growth; second, to modernise production and infrastructure; third, to raise social standards; fourth, to strengthen the role of the regions in ensuring economic growth and increasing their responsibility for addressing social problems; fifth, to strengthen the defence of the state; sixth, to protect citizens' rights and freedoms, to strengthen the rule of law and the rule of law; and seventh, to develop international cooperation. The main tasks of the programme are to improve the living conditions of citizens, increase employment, create new jobs, reduce inflation rates, reduce poverty; second, improve the quality and accessibility of education and health care; third, provide food, energy and environmental security; fourth, create business-friendly conditions; fifth, restore long-term credit to businesses and households; sixth, involve investment and accelerate the reproduction of productive capital; and seventh, reduce regional disparities, primarily through the development of economic potential and investment attractiveness. This year we have developed a programme for Plus Two, because one of the main elements of the reform of strategic planning in the state as part of the economic reform programme is the effective harmonisation of socio-economic and budgetary planning. During the design of the project, we have come to believe that today it is essential to introduce in government practice modern methods of assessing the efficiency of budget spending, taking into account the wide-ranging implementation of reforms in the State in terms of the ultimate objectives of socio-economic transformation and the mandatory alignment of these objectives with the results achieved. And the transition from short-term to medium-term planning will guide the budgetary process to a transparent distribution of funds and to the maximum efficient management of budgetary resources according to the priorities of public policy. The medium - term programme is to become the core of this system of governance, the relationship between strategic planning, budgetary planning, the forecasting of legislative activities and organizational arrangements. It covers all sectors, not just the public sector of the economy, their indicators and measures to identify the resources needed for 2012 by sources of funding. Therefore, the program provides a complex link between the development of separate economic segments and social progress. For example, the task of developing the internal market needs to increase the purchasing power of the population, which can only be achieved by increasing wages, pensions and other social benefits, which will depend on increasing the volume of production of goods and services, and on the effectiveness of measures to curb inflation. In 2012, it is projected that price increases will remain below 7.9 percent at a level that will not only stimulate economic recovery but also ensure that citizens' incomes are saved. Social settings. Next year, we will ensure that all existing social obligations are financed, which is one of the fundamental pillars of our policy. The State-guaranteed subsistence minimum per person will grow by 14 percent, with the minimum wage increased to a minimum. From the second half of 2011, the salary of the staff member of the first tariff level of the single tariff network will be increased in a timely manner. Thus, three months earlier, the gap between the declared salary and the minimum wage was reduced. Complementary measures to stabilize the solidarity system of compulsory state pension insurance will increase the minimum wage on average by 9.8 percent compared to 2011. Regional economic and social development programmes contain a large number of social measures. These apply primarily to people’s living conditions. Construction of new social infrastructures, educational facilities, health care, and environmental facilities is planned. The main tasks of health - care politicians are to ensure the availability of health services, prevention, and early detection of diseases, especially for rural people. And I'd like to say a few words about the midterm perspective, ladies and gentlemen. 2013-2014 is expected to be a period of high-quality structural shifts in the economy towards increasing the role of the innovation model. The active and comprehensive implementation of structural reforms today will allow GDP growth to be on the average 7.3 percent per year in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u4	One minute, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u6	an increase of 8 to 9 percent per year in industrial production. Social policy will be based on raising all social standards and guarantees in 2013. By the end of 2014, the minimum of living will be achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, please accept the Social and Economic Development Programme for 2012, 2013 and 2014. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please sign in. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u8	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Andrew Petrovich, I have carefully looked at the chapter on the agribusiness complex. I'd like to hear the answer, how will agricultural production be stimulated by applying a government order for it? That's the first one. The other one. The increase in grain production to 54 million tons, I think it's an unrealistic question. Answer these two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u9	Thank you for asking. Well, as for grains, 54 million tons, if we don't work with you, we won't be able to raise 54 million tons. So it can be unrealistic if we don't work with you. But I would like to remind you that in 2011 we will be collecting 52, 53 million tons. And if we do all of these things on the program, we're going to collect 54 million tons. It's real. The second question is regarding a government order. You know, we're already doing government procurement this year, and this is what the Agrarian Fund is doing. And those future contracts that we offered to our farmers are government contracts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u10	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear Andrew Petrovich, I have a question about the agribusiness complex. Two days ago, our President, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, spoke at a high-level meeting of the UN General Assembly, stated that Ukraine would in the near future increase the supply of environmentally sound food at an affordable price for international markets. In doing so, we are moving from abroad today, even products that we can grow ourselves. Let's at least take a so-called, long-term set. I looked at the latest statistics, so last year we moved 19.5,000 tons of potatoes from abroad, over 23,000 tons of cabbage, almost 30,000 barrels and carrots. I have a question: Can the government not overcome this shameful practice? What desires will be realized.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u12	Thank you for the very important question. Well, in terms of the length set, the government is very careful in this matter. And there's a decision by the government that at the end of May, every cabinet meeting, the first question was, how do you do, solve this problem in the regions? And for the best. Our country has considerable agricultural potential, but our misery has always been not only to grow crops but to preserve them. And you all know that. The loss of pyjamas is up to 30 percent or more. So by 2012, we're not going to support the construction of the state of wholesale markets, about 200 million dollars, and I want to say, these projects are planned in the Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Zaporysk, Chernigivsk, Sumski, Odessk areas. In part, the cost of construction of new thermal complexes, vegetables, and potatoes is projected to be close to the socio-economic project, some 150 million dollars. That's why the government is dealing with this problem, and we're going to solve these issues with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u13	In addition, it is obvious that we should add, Andri Petrovich, that we have adopted a good Organic Production Act, but then, with the submission of the government, the President of Ukraine has made a commitment to it, and we have lost a good law. They were forced to cancel. Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u14	Dear Andrey Petrovich, I have given 30 years to the police, I have worked for 10 years as Head of the U.S.A., in principle, I know well all the problems of the system, I have worked both in Soviet times and in independence. But so humiliated, so hungry, so cheered up, which today is the militia, she hasn't been yet. I understand that the question, in general, is not as much to you as to Minister Jaroshenko, but, by the way, after 16 hours today, we are invited to consider destroying the special fund. Question one: How are we going to compensate 3 billion dollars of bracelets for our militia if we want it to be called that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u15	A.P. Thank you so much for the good question. I share with you your feelings towards the police, here. And we have considered this issue more than once at the Cabinet of Ministers. So you know we're serious about deregulation. And when the militia, the people in the heathens and the guns, do what they pay for, it's wrong. That is why, of course, we are on our way to reduce the number of paid services provided by law enforcement agencies. And, of course, we will be obliged to make this whole thing up to the State budget. Otherwise, we can't have a position because we're going to lose our militia, not only the police, but all law enforcement agencies, because it's not only about the militia, but it's about all the power structures. Payment services, administrative services, it's still, well, 50 by 50, well, paid services to people in train and with guns are not to be provided. That's not right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u16	Thank you, Andrew Petrovich, time is up. I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Alexia Vitaliovich Plonikov, to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u17	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme for 2012 and the main directions for development for 2013 and 2014, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Act on State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programmes. In accordance with article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programmes, the Ukrainian Minister's Office submitted to the Supreme Council a project of the State Programme for 2011 at the same time as the Ukrainian State Budget Project. In general, the adoption of a state programme is an important step for the state, because it is this document that determines the strategy, the direction, the priority development and, in general, what will happen to the state during and next year and for 2013-2014. But in order for this document not to remain declarant, it needs to be filled with adequate financial resources. It is therefore quite logical that the program is being considered in the budget, it is going ahead of the budget, and the budget will be maintained after consideration of the programme. As far as the program is concerned, it has been developed in full compliance with the requirements of current legislation for the development of economic and social development forecasting and programming documents. It should be noted that the government program is significantly different from the software documents that have been considered in recent years. In addition to defined objectives and development priorities, the programme has sufficiently defined means and ways of achieving them, a mutually agreed and integrated system of action by all authorities aimed at effectively addressing the socio-economic issues of the country's development. Unlike previous programs, the government programme for 2012 has a number of development parameters, including the sector and the territorial sections. Its development has actually led to an audit of all budgetary resources, since the socio-economic indicators compiled are based on data from enterprises, organizations, institutions, that is, based on data from all economic operators. The state-wide application includes a system-wide application. a controversial set of measures to ensure conditions for socio-economic growth, modernization of production and infrastructure, raising social standards, etc. Now, as world experience has shown, there are no countries that, to some extent or another, do not go to medium-term planning and what the Ministry of Economics is doing right now, according to the Cabinet of Ministers, this can only be welcomed in terms of what is being proposed for the next year and the programme is being submitted for 2013-2014. We need to pay attention. The first time that the programme, apart from its objectives, has been given priority in its implementation systems for the following year, it also specifies for 2013 and 2014. In the same way, the weighting of the State Economic and Social Development Programme of the country becomes the highest in terms of the systematic formation of all the State's planned activities in terms of the formation and implementation of state policy for the current period, as well as the medium and long term perspective. At the same time, with all the advantages of this program, we believe that there are immediate implications for improving it, taking into account both scale and diversity, much can be said both in terms of criticism and in terms of complementarity and refinement. The committee hopes that colleagues from other committees, national deputies, will be more involved in matters related to their knowledge, and the committee will take all constructive comments and suggestions into account in the drafting of the bill for the second reading. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of September 21, this year, believes that the first reading of the Ukrainian National Economic and Social Development Programme 2012 draft and the main development directions for 2013-2014 may be based on the following comments and proposals. Thus, the Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 20 September 2011 considered Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers' draft Law on Ukraine's 2012 State Economic and Social Development Programme and the main directions of development for 2013-2014 and the majority of votes decided to support it and recommend it to the Supreme Council on a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, questions, please. Alexei Vitaliovich may be asking questions for you. Please sign up, Your Honor. Valerius Calchenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u19	Please pass the word to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u20	Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u21	Mr. Reporter, why does the government in the budget project, when calculating the minimum cost of living, provide a minimum of living, calculated from food, services that were approved 10 years ago in an outdated manner? This leads to the fact that the social standards in the 2012 budget project are significantly underestimated, namely the non-retirement of pensions, the reduction of salaries, scholarships, the non-payment of full-time social assistance. As an example, we all remember Janukovic’s promise of a minimum pension of 200 dollars, and in this budget of only 823 bracelets from January 1st. Could it repeat the technique? Moreover, the law requires that this method be reviewed once every two years, which leads to a decline in social life.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u22	I want to remind my honorary colleague that I was speaking from the Committee on Economic Policy and the subject of my speech is: "On the draft Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine.".. Your proposals, first of all, go to the government, second of all, relate to the state budget of Ukraine. I mean, I'm willing to discuss with you personally in other areas and areas about the formation of the consumer basket, about how to view it and everything else. Well, it's not right for us to have a discussion right now, right now, and that's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u23	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u24	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Alexei Vitaliyovich, I have a question for you both as a deputy and as an economist for a professional economist. Tell me, please, do you agree that the main reason for the social diversification of the population, the gap that many say there is an extremely small share of the population's income in the value of the unit of production in Ukraine compared to many other countries? And this is in many areas of Ukraine. Do you think that we have to plan both the social sphere and, accordingly, the economic sphere, so that this part of the wage is increased in such a way that the cost of the labor force is increased and then we can talk about the real mechanisms of promotion and pensions, social payments and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u25	I agree with you that this question is important, that it is a matter of action, of action, of action. Well, there's this kind of specific answer. Nevertheless, the productivity in Ukraine is very low compared to those in higher countries. So if we're going to have to increase the productivity of our work, we definitely have to increase that part. I don't want to be a statistician right now, it was the December 2009 calculations. We have about 16 percent of that. productivity in Ukraine is 16 percent of the United States. So from this point of view, we can't have the same share of the wages in the value of the product, given the same cost.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u26	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Dear colleagues, now as we agreed, we are moving on to the introduction of the State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2012. And he's going to be presenting the State Budget 2012 project of Finance Minister Feder Alexiyovich Jaroshenko. The committee will be chaired by the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valery Alexiyovich Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u27	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, present! Your view is presented by the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2012 which is prepared in accordance with the 2010-2014 economic reform programmes, as well as by the Government's 2012 socio-economic development programme for Ukraine. The project meets the basic budgetary policy requirements for 2012, as approved by the Supreme Council's decision of 13 May this year, and is the result of the joint work of the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Deputies of Ukraine, the Central Executive Authorities, local self-government, trade unions and the interested public. The 2012 budget project brought together a better experience in the development of previous budgets and a large number of innovative ideas. The budget was based on a budget model and a formula for success. Thanks to the multidimensionality of budgetary policy, we have covered virtually all areas of development in Ukraine -- and we have identified clear, balanced tasks in every direction. The government, along with the National Bank, has developed and implemented an innovative model and a system that provides rapid response. the world crisis in the financial system of Ukraine. In line with better world practice, for the first time in years of independence, together with the State Budget 2012 project, there is a forecast of the State budget for the next two budget periods, which provides a strategic basis for economic reforms. With the reforms initiated by the President of Ukraine and their implementation, the executive and legislative branch has been stabilised, Ukraine's financial system, resulting in economic growth in 2010-2011. This is the main message to society and investors, the economy of Ukraine is moving forward to a cross-cutting level, ensuring full implementation of the income and expenditure portion of the budget. Reforms that are currently under way are already yielding positive results. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, let me stop at the income part of the draft budget. A conservative scenario is taken as the basis for the calculation of the State Budget indicators, which provides for a resilient assessment of economic growth trends in 2012. This will allow a budget reserve to be created in case the global economy is stagnant. The project budget forecast for 2012 is 428.5 billion dollars, 28.5 percent of GDP, including a total fund of 370 billion, will increase nominal GDP by 16.6 percent and will amount to 1.5 trillion dollars. Much of the budget's income is still in tax revenue, which will be 289 billion dollars, 14.2 percent of the planned rate this year. At the same time, their share of GDP will fall by 0.4 percent to 19.2 percent, indicating a decrease in the tax burden on business entities. I would like to stress that the growth of the budget will take place solely on account of the growth of the economy, which is the main factor in development. A general investment resource of 47 billion dollars is attributable to the granting of preferences to operators. One of the main macroindicators of the budget is its deficit. Budget policy priorities for 2012 are to reduce the general government deficit to 2.5 percent of GDP. Effective government debt management is one of the key tasks of 2012. The volume of government loans will decrease by nearly 17.4 percent to 91.9 billion dollars, which will usually be made at the expense of domestic loans. The debt burden on the economy will be even greater in the next two years. The need to pay off IMF loans in 2009 by 22.8 billion dollars and 15.1 billion dollars increases government borrowing by 10.7 percent in 2013, by 38.3 in 2014 compared to 2012. It should be noted, however, that the most clear example of a balanced policy of government debt management is the gradual reduction of government debt to GDP by 27.6 percent or 2.4 percent below in the main fiscal policies for 2012. State guarantees will be up to 1 percent of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at the cost of the draft budget. The amount of expenditure and loans granted to the State budget of Ukraine is projected at $374 billion, 29 billion more than the planned figure of the current year. Additional budget resources will address a range of social issues, including the introduction of new minimum wage levels, the increase in salaries of budget workers – 18.5 billion dollars, the payment of medical, pharmaceutical workers – 1.6 billion dollars, the increase in support of families with children – 3.8 billion dollars, the increase in benefits and subsidies for housing and utilities – 1.1 billion dollars. Over the next year, the government, along with the trade unions, will make a concerted decision to raise the living minimum by 14 percent, which will amount to 1,000 98 dollars. In 2012, social benefits for families with children, low-income families, disabled children and disabled children were increasing. The total amount of the corresponding State budget subsidy will increase by 14.4 percent or 30.2 billion dollars. For pensioners, an average increase of about 10 percent is planned in 2012. And by the end of the year, it's going to be 869 bucks. Many important issues next year must be addressed in the fields of education, health, science, and culture. Without serious structural changes in these areas, there is no possible quality development, an important economic factor in human capital. Ukraine must take a decent place in the UN's human development rating. The expenditure of the consolidated budget in 2012 on education will increase by nearly 12 billion, for health care by 6.9 billion, for culture and art by 1.4, for physical culture and sports by 5 billion, for science and science and technology by 0.8 billion. In addition to supporting the social budget vector in 2012, the government's key priority will be to create conditions for the development, modernization of infrastructure, the real economy sector as a driver of economic growth. The investment costs of the budget will be at least 5 percent of GDP or 78.1 billion dollars, which is 21.4 more than the planned rate. To complete the work for the preparation of Euro - 2012 infrastructure objects, 7.4 billion dollars will be allocated next year. To solve coal problems, it is planned to allocate 9.5 billion dollars from the State budget. To develop a material and raw base, 500 billion dollars. Special attention will be given to the development of the space sector. In 2012, funding amounts to $592 billion. The 2012 budget will increase the state support for the development of the agri-industrial complex, by almost 3.9 billion dollars, to 40 billion dollars. In terms of road maintenance, I would like to point out that for the first time in the state budget for the next year, 15 percent of the road fund is spent on building and repairing roads of municipal property, the amount of road development expenditure is 20.2 tenths. The defense and security funding will be increased by 5.9 billion and will amount to 47.9 billion dollars. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! State support for the regions has also been highlighted as a major part of the State Budget for 2012. With a view to implementing regional policy, local budgets will weigh 45.6 per cent of the expenditure of the budget. The main emphasis of budgetary policy is to increase the self-sufficiency of local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u28	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u29	Self - government. I want to say that the total cost of local budgets is going to be 194.7 billion dollars. And what I'm saying is that fiscal policy will be geared, not to dispersing financial resources, but to its concentration, in line with the development priorities set out in our country's strategic plans. Thank you for your attention, and please support the Ukrainian National Budget 2012 draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, please register with the Finance Minister, Fedor Alexiyovich Jaroshenko. Please sign in. Show me the names of the people's deputies. Petrenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u31	Petrenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland", Poltava. I give the word to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u32	Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u33	Andrew Pavlovsky. Mr. Minister, when will the government finally fulfill Victor Yanukovic's famous promise that the minimum pension of January 1,200 dollars? Is it only going to be 823 bracelets? And the second question. Why the government continues to grossly violate the Wages Act, and the salaries of the first - rate employees amount to only 773 bracelets when the minimum wage of 1 thousand 73 is scheduled for January 1, that is, 300 bracelets. This means that every budget officer in the country does not receive more than 300 dollars from your government to his salary. And why does failure to implement the Law on State Standards and Social Guarantees continue, and aid to the underprivileged is calculated from some virtual level of provision of a minimum of living, rather than a minimum of living?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. I want you all to know that the government is clearly carrying out all the tasks set by the President of our country: in 2010, we raised all the social standards, in 2011 -- also, in 2012, we are also predicting an increase in pensions and an increase in the funding of the poor. In addition, I would like to remind you, honourable national deputies and Mr. Pavlovski personally, that the 95th article of the Constitution of our State clearly stipulates that all the expenditure made from the State budget is determined solely by the State Budget Act. So, based on the possibilities that the real economy is working, and the real economy, you've been listening to Andri Petrovich Kljev, the First Vice-Prime Minister reported on the increase in real GDP growth. So as we get out of these increases, we're going to form and plan to make changes to the State Budget Act at an appropriate time in order to keep the social standards of Ukrainian citizens constantly rising.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u35	Vladimir Jaroschuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u36	Dear Feder Alexiyovich, since July 1, this year, allowances have been introduced for education, medicine, and other budget workers. Are they secured next year? That's the first question. The other one. If the government budget is convinced, what will be the reallocation mechanism of the State Budget Fund of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. Medically provided funding, we're all accounted for, I've told you 1.6 billion dollars is provided for, and we've already made all the calculations all over the country, and all of this money will go into the right budgets from January 1st, and all the health workers will get it. With regard to the formation of the development budget. So the government has set a target for additional sources of privatization. And once this is done, strictly procedurally, we're going to prepare all the materials for you and we're going to look at it in public, and you're going to be part of the formation schedule of the funds that are going to be formed in the Regional Development Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u38	Vasil Evtukhov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u39	The word "Peklushenko," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u40	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u41	Mr. Secretary, thank you for a very clear, optimistic report. And there's a lot in it, I think we're happy to have people in this room and our voters. At the same time, I would like to answer some questions. First of all, I'm concerned about the state of local budgets. The work we have done in the faction is not fully balanced by the revenues we have recorded to the local budgets. Please refer to this question. In order to prevent the local budgets from being written down, it will be very difficult to implement. Second. Your report has little to do with what concerns our voters: gasification, rural lighting and credit. Our constituents are concerned about the lending that is primarily related to the construction of housing? And the last question is the bridge in Zaporozhye? It's listed in the budget as a $4.5 billion bridge with the Cherkassas.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u42	What do you mean, the balance of local budgets? I want to let you all know that practically the Ministry of Finance, as the minister, we've adopted completely all the regions and we've considered practically every position that concerns each region. And we have reasonably done it both on the income side of the budget and on the expenditure side of the budget. Of course, the needs claimed by the regions are not sufficient to provide for the requests made by local authorities. But the draft budget for 2012, it's balanced, and I want to say that where there are calculations, we have a budgetary process going on. And we're going to be looking over the course of September, October, November, so that the final budget doesn't have any problems at all, and the regions work without problems. Regarding the design of development programmes, I want to tell you that for 2012, the local budget development fund will be 7.6 billion dollars, and it's also a huge amount, and it's never been. And so the roads there, the objects there, are also accounted for. In addition, there's a 2 billion regional development fund, there's a 2 billion more capital development fund, and it's also going to be distributed and channelled to finance just social and important objects. It's about the bridge in Zaporozhye. The bridge in Zaporozhye, you know, is such a strategic object that the government supports with regard to its launch of the first line in the first, late 2012. That's why it's going to be passed on to the balance sheet of "The Stork" and the funding will be at the expense of the special fund of "The Stork."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u43	Finish up, please. Yes, thank you, Feder Alexiovich. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out to you that once these issues are completed, the Advisory Council will begin its deliberations on local self-government issues with the heads of district councils, where we will be discussing with the Cabinet of Ministers the very problem of local budgets. Which of the national deputies wishes to participate in this meeting, please. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valeri Alexiyovich Baranov. Please, Valery Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Budget Committee heard a bill yesterday on the State Budget for the following year. In general, the bill conforms to the rules of the Budget Code. In preparing the draft budget, the government has taken into account or partially account most of the basic policies of the budget policy that we have approved with you. The bill proposes to significantly increase basic social standards and guarantees. The question of the approximation of the size of the official salary to the workers of the first tariff grade based on a single tariff grid to the minimum wage level is decided, and it will be 74 percent. Such innovations should be noted. Strategic planning and medium-term budgeting are in place. Together with the draft budget, the State budget forecast for 2014 is presented. A short list of the principals of the state budget for 14 offices has been cut. Budgeted programs are reduced by 300. At the same time, the separate positions of the government’s basic fiscal policies are not taken into account. In particular, no draft State Privatisation Programme, which was stressed by the President of Ukraine, was submitted to the Supreme Council. And the planned revenues from the privatization of state property for the next year amounting to 10 billion dollars have not been confirmed by adequate calculations as to the reality of their implementation. Moreover, no legislative proposals have been made to improve the formation of a government order for vocational and higher education depending on the needs of the labour market. Since the adoption of the Law on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees, which was 2000 years ago, and so far they have not been approved by the government, and they should be the basis for the calculation of local budget expenditure and the definition of inter-budgetary transfers. At last, the central authority must clearly determine the cost of public social services, which are delegated to the local authorities and their financial security. The time has come for the revision of legislation on social policy, prioritization, and the transition to address assistance. Here is a vital issue of public dialogue and radical action. Inadequate measures by the government regarding budgetary decentralization, which the President also insists, are insufficient. This inhibits the process of spending, leads to inefficient use and abuse. Proposals for a bill by the Committees of the Supreme Council and the National Deputies are now being formulated. In this connection, the Committee on Budgets draws the attention of deputies and committees to the formulation of such proposals in accordance with part one of article 156 of the Supreme Council Rules. These proposals should be in line with the 2012 budgetary policy guidelines approved by the Supreme Council. Measures to increase or reduce the revenue of the State budget should identify the sources of their coverage, including the types and amounts of expenditure to be reduced. Such proposals cannot lead to an increase in government debt and government guarantees compared to the amount of government debt provided for in the bill. In particular, I remind you that all proposals should be submitted to the Committee on Budget Questions no later than October 1st this year. Parliament's further work on the bill will be carried out in accordance with the relevant timetable approved by the Head of the Supreme Council. The Committee on Budget Affairs calls on committees, national deputies to work actively and constructively on drafting the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u45	Yes, thank you, Valery Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, if you have any questions for the committee head, please sign in. Yes, I'd like the names of the National Deputies. Ivan Kirilenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, please give the floor to the national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u47	Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u48	Mr. Secretary, well, what's going on and what's budgeted for culture just doesn't have to be said because the heart is squeezing. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, with the gross violation that may just be, the government is allocating 20 million dollars, listen, 20 million dollars, not to the National Kyevo-Pecher Historical Cultural Reserve, namely the Church of the Moscow Patriarchate. It's in a country where the church is divided from power. How could that be? Who will report at this cost? And the second short question. Tell me, where's that Russian fleet lease? There is now talk of more than 12 billion Russia’s debt. Where is the article? If you can, call me, legalize her.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. The head of the budget committee, Baranov Valeriy Aleksyyovich, now answers the question. And I'm going to ask Fedor Alekseiovich to answer the question of the National MP. Olena Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Ostap Semierak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u51	Who? Semerak Ostap, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u52	The honourable head of the committee! Allow me to remind you that both the Constitution of Ukraine and the Budget Code of Ukraine provide that Parliament has a function of control over the government for the implementation of the budget and the waste of state funds. Among the money that you announced to us today that the government had used in the preparation of the Budget Code, you did not say that the government had merged the codes of the budget programs. I think this is a step in increasing corruption in the use of budget funds, this is the removal of Parliament from control of how the government uses funds. Please assess how much more corruption will increase in the use of state and national funds by this government of Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u53	I understand that this is a very political issue, so this is a question for discussion. I can't tell you today, and no one will tell you what level of corruption is, this is a topic for discussion. As for your specific suggestions, I ask you to give them to us in writing and we will consider them with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u54	Alexander Blackwolf, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u55	Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Sir, it's a purely economic question for you. The table that we worked with you on the committee yesterday is very interesting -- the dynamics of changing the weight of different taxes in the state budget over the last five years. So, look, the income tax goes down, the income tax goes up, the excises go up, the weight of the local budgets goes down, and the gross national product goes down. Don't you think that this budget, which is designed, is designed in the interests of the great capital that is called oligarchs and against people? Because people are being chosen, because their taxes are getting bigger and bigger and excised, and the large capital of corporate tax, the income tax is going down, and it's going up against the President's claim.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u56	I understand your question. You know, sometimes we say that tax cuts are very good, because that gives a boost to the economy. And now we say it's very bad. We're saying that the excise on wine that makes it possible to invest money in the development of winemaking is bad, and others say that you have to raise taxes on wine, on vodka, on tobacco. That's why I disagree with you. If taxes go down, VAT and income tax, it's good for the economy, which is the force that can get Ukraine out of the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u57	Thank you, Valery Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for the factions, authorized factions and groups: half an hour, five minutes. Depends on how you want to speak. First names of national deputies: Katerina Vaschuk, Paul Zebrovsky, Igor Rybakov, Peter Simonenko, Yuri Prokopchuk, Vladislav Lukyanov in such a sequence. The word is given by Catherine Vaschuk, a faction of the People’s Party. Next will be Paul Zebrowsky. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up from the deputies. 45 minutes in order to guide the MPs, who will speak. People's deputies are being recorded, please log in. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Yes, dear fellows, now look when you're speaking. Yes, Catherine Timothy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, respectable government, respected radio audiences! Today, we have heard very serious documents that will be followed by the country for the next year, and the prospects. What can be said in general? In terms of the government’s activity program, we want to point out that we see a sequence of government structures, a sequence of commitments made in the President’s work program. You can't help but notice that. And the preparation of the government program, and the budget, obviously, has become possible from the fact that many professionals have come to power from place to place. And this enabled her to be more specific and professional. Although it may be said that there are absolutely no flaws, you cannot. And in my speech, I want to focus the government's attention on the proposals that members of our People's Party faction made at their meeting, the main ones. In order to avoid the risks of the global financial crisis, its repetition of the deep financial crisis in Ukraine, we should think more seriously about the fact that the external trade surplus from the minus trade has turned into positive, that is to say that the balance would stimulate the arrival of currency in Ukraine, which would guarantee stability and national currency. What do we have today? We don't understand what the government is doing to stop agricultural exports. We have introduced new export duties on grain crops, on the approach of developing export duties on oil crops, on oil. With this difficulty, the agrarians conquered the world’s markets and produced good results. Today we have the leading places in the world in these directions. What Is the Purpose of Exclusion? There's no metal, there's no energy, there's no other kind of industrial production. We think it needs to be reversed, it's wrong in economic development where there's a market economy. I also want to point out that things are not so smooth with the work of investors in our country. Despite all the authorities' claims that a good climate has been created, investors are afraid to go to Ukraine: there is a warning, there is a desire to be insured. There's also unprofessionality in places, and corruption, and there's all sorts of bureaucratic procrastination. There's a lot of work to be done in this direction. And suggestions. For example, we introduced a different tax system for the added cost of animal production. We write, "Increasing the production of milk and meat." When else will those complexes be built, when the milk is left? And today we're cutting off the branch where we got the result. We've been paying value added taxes as a stimulus to peasants, and today it's going to a separate fund, and the villagers haven't received a penny for the day. Some 400 million have been gathered at this time. Last year, some 2 billion dollars were already paid to peasants. What's the point of losing? And the last. We would like to draw the attention of the government to the need to simplify the renting process by the local communities of the land that belongs to the State and the land for unexploded pies. Today, this is a billion hectares across Ukraine. If you rent only one and a half thousand dollars, that's one and a half billion dollars that can come into local budgets, plus.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u59	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to speak within five minutes, because you're wasting time with other deputies. Pavel Žebrovsky, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Igor Rybakov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u60	Paul Zebravsky, "Ukrainian Platform", NUNS faction. Dear colleagues, each budget has its own name. What philosophy in the budget and in the economic and social development plan is set up is this budget. There was a budget for its own, there was a budget for the wank, there was a budget for the food. What's the budget? This budget, you could call it pessimistic-optimistic tragic comedy. In another way, it is not possible to name the budget. Why? One of the presidents once said, "Tell me what to build, and I'll build you." So if you look at the program of this socio-economic development, this budget, what does the current government want to build, where does it focus its thoughts? Many of today’s prime ministers have recently mentioned the Stolipin. The only thing he doesn't remember is that because of the "Stolpinian reform" the middle class was formed, which is the irreversibility of democracy, and this is civil society, and this is European values. Is there even a hint of middle class formation? Absolutely not available. Where do their feet of today’s Cabinet of Ministers and today’s authorities direct? In fact, to monopolize Ukraine's business and economy, to form a country that depends on some sectors of the economy, in fact, on big business. Of course, tax cuts are a plus, because these companies have an extra investment capital that they can invest in the development of production, but these are for some just categories of people. In fact, for most Ukrainians the only way out is to hire, not to form their own business, not to start their own business, not to provide for the family, but to actually go and hire a major capital. What would have to be done? In fact, by allowing a large business to benefit from tax cuts and that's enough, the business will direct and survive on its own. At the same time, small and medium-sized businesses would be supported by microcredit, not by 20 million to borrow small businesses by 206,000 per one, but by a sufficiently substantial structure, a substantial sum for people to actually take up. What we're talking about today is that we don't have money for social spending, for programs, for laws that we passed. But are we going to have, or does this budget and this socio-economic development plan that at some point we're going to be able to throw out those social programs that we've adopted? No, it's not. Why? Because today we are not raising a wide range of active people who could actually make money and support pensioners, disabled people, and other population categories. But we did a great job with the judges, leaving what was, in the last budget, we added 1.9 billion dollars to them in the court. And now the judge of the local court is going to pay 13,000 dollars. With the average wage we're going to have in Ukraine a little over three thousand dollars, the breakup is just incredible. Because of this, what are we building in this country? There's no understanding, in fact, there's no way out, in fact, hopeless. Look, come on, after the construction, is this where the largest category of people are being built, maybe this year we've been financing housing, youth construction? No, it's not. Is it possible that a large amount of money is being invested in the following year, including for rural builders? No, it's only 55 million from what the other builders are going to return. Which is what we're referring to as a financial resource: (a) we're not raising the social standards of life because if we take a living minimum of 1,073 bracelets. The minimum wage of 1,073 bracelets per January month and 1,134 bracelets per December month, we don't even increase the minimum wage by 7.9 percent, which is an inflationary component. It's actually that we're losing social security because we're saying that there's no money, and at the same time we're not giving people the opportunity to make a living and be independent of power. The key question is: unfortunately, this budget does not allow Ukrainians to be worthy of the nation and to form a civil society that will not allow for the construction of a dictatorship in Ukraine. I think this budget needs to be sent for processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u61	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Please, your performance. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u62	Honorable colleagues, respected citizens, distinguished national MPs! Today, when we look at Ukraine's State Economic and Social Development Programme 2012 and its associated State Budget project, we note that perhaps for the first time in years of independence Ukraine has made an attempt to really link these two documents. The biggest problem that we've had so far is the inadequacy of the socio-economic sphere and its planned indicators to its financial fulfillment. And perhaps the first method of project management involved and the world’s experience in this direction, allowing for the formation and consolidation of two interconnected documents: the State Budget, which is based solely on the Ukraine Development Programme. That's why the members of our group can describe the draft budget as poor but realistic. This is the basis for the underlying indicators of the budget project, in general, to be constructive for a realistic document. The MP's Reform for the Future insists and will demand that the indicators of the State Budget be based on the realistic scenario of the State Economic and Social Development Programme not only for the twelfth year but also in the medium term until 2014. One of the key priorities for this year is, in our view, to set out the following. First. Modernization of the country’s production and infrastructure. The other one. Increasing the role of regions in ensuring economic growth and increasing their responsibility for addressing social problems. And the third. Development of international cooperation and comprehensive integration of Ukraine into global financial processes. We define as positive the focus of the State Budget 2012 project on the priority development of the internal market, the promotion and development of regions and the rise in social standards, which calls for a step-by-step increase in minimum wage and an increase in wage in the budgetary area. In general, one of the priorities of the following year, where the deputies of our faction see a further increase in the stability of government finances. This is particularly important in terms of the difficult economic and financial situation in the world. We need a balanced debt policy, a reduction of the budget deficit, a balance of local budgets, an expenditure policy based on optimized state-level and budgetary programmes. In addition, the key task of the budget next year is to encourage further economic growth and regional development in our country. At the same time, there are flaws. In our view, there are negative trends in a number of sectors and sectors of the economy in the project of the socio-economic development programme and the 2012 budget. First of all, the steady trend is to increase the negative balance of goods and services, starting from $4.9 billion to 5.6. At the same time, it raises questions and a chapter on strengthening the sovereignty of the State. In our view, it is presented fairly schematically, in particular, not properly defined by the key priorities of the state’s defence policy. It seems like all defense policy is to build one corvette and two An-70 military-transport planes. We draw your attention to the fact that, in our view, the government is somewhat optimistic about the overall prospects for investment to come to Ukraine, taking into account the pre-crisis state of the world financial market. Do you want to solve them just by increasing the marginal volume of the holding, which has increased by 10.6 percent? It also raises concerns about the inflation forecast of 7.9. Thus, according to some indicators, the budget seems somewhat unrealistic with a rather high risk of not carrying it out. Of course, he needs a correction to the second reading. First of all, this is due to the expected fiscal deficit of 4.7 GDP due to the excess of the planned rates of the Pension Fund and NAK Naftogazu Ukraine. In spite of this, the House of Representatives of Reforms for the Future will support the 2012 draft of the State Budget in its first reading and requests that we, together, all deputies, take into account the observations that we have made today from this high parliamentary parliamentary rostrum. As for the Social and Economic Development Programme, you'll get 20 votes from us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u63	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction, please. Next will be the representative of the BUT faction Ivan Krilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, as they analyzed the program and the draft budget, the Company’s faction was that the modern - day Ukrainian economy remained highly dependent on the world’s markets. In a recent economic model of industrial production, inflation, financial stability, and labour market situations are largely determined by external economic factors. Unfortunately, the figures set by the government in preparing the programme and transferring it to the draft budget show some misunderstandings even about the short-term prospects of the global and national economy. Given the export-oriented nature of the domestic industry, the decline in business activity in the world poses a threat to us to a repeat-scale crisis in the real economy of Ukraine. It seems that the authorship of the Economic and Social Development Programme belongs, not to the Ukrainian government, but to IMF consultants. In fact, the authors of the program, as a methodological tool, carefully copied the principles of the so - called Washington Consensus. This, in the face of a crisis for Ukraine, will necessarily lead to the final destruction of our nation’s economic sovereignty. You can see, to put it mildly, the inadequacy of the statements of the creators of the program regarding the positive effect from Ukraine’s entry into WTO. You and I need to understand. For help: During the first half of this year, the deficit reached $5.5 billion in external economic trade. Even less understandable is the unappealable choice of the authors of the programme in favour of Ukraine's trade and economic integration with EU countries. The program completely ignores the threats posed by the creation of a free trade zone with the European Union and the mechanism for removing them. To date, the productivity in Ukraine is on average only 30 percent of the European level. In doing so, it severely restricts cooperation with Russia and the CIS countries, exclusively trade contracts. The document even disappeared the formula for cooperation with the 3+1 Customs Union. The rejection of full integration with Russia in favour of domestic markets is then another indication of the inadequacy of the program. With a view to preventing negative developments in the internal market, pricing speculation and creating artificial deficits, the Company's faction once again suggests that we should ensure: the creation of an agrarian fund of the National Agricultural Company; the creation of a network of state-owned and utility retail companies, services, state-owned and municipal pharmacies; support for the restoration of collective and state-owned agricultural enterprises; the creation of a state-owned land fund; the transition to indicative pricing and the establishment of marginal prices for food products, medicines of primary necessity; the creation of state reserves, strategic resources, primarily fuel-energy. Today, the program should, in our view, provide for a way out of signing strategic agreements with the Russian Federation on the creation of joint ventures, which has been discussed on a number of occasions. But we have to take measures today to change the structure of our National Bank's gold reserves in order to reduce reserves in dollars and the euro in favour of the gold and currency of the trading partners. Going to external trade accounts in partner countries' currencies will also contribute to the recovery of our economy. Limiting the speculation of non-residents by entering a tax on a foreign currency transaction. The introduction of a mandatory 75 - percent interest rate on the sale of the foreign exchange proceeds of exporters to the interbank. A gradual decline in the range of 3 to 5 percent accounts for the National Bank of Ukraine, as well as increased control over external lending by companies and banks. It seems to us that today we can and should propose: to radically change the approach to reforming pension reform, the system, first of all by cancelling the so-called reformist law; to preserve the existing system of benefits for our citizens by removing project 9127; to legally consolidate the minimum costs of health, education, science; to ask for a procedure for the purchase of medicines that are critical to our patients; to review the list of specialties that we will be preparing at the expense of the state. And certainly strengthen control over the use of all the funds. We think we need to look at and review cooperation with the World Trade Organization in general, strengthen phytosanitary control, expand anti-dumping investigations, and improve governance. We, too, the faction of the Company, are proposing to stop privatization and consider the state program as we will use this property. It is legislative to impose a ban on the purchase and sale of land. We have also offered many others.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u65	Everyone, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u66	This morning, I gave Andrew Petrovich Clovis these profoundly based scientific conclusions that we have drawn on the basis of an analysis of our program, and I believe that they will be just the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u67	Thank you. Ivan Kirilenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Next is Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah instead of Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u68	Respectable Society! There are things no one will say about except the opposition from this high rostrum. First. The new authorities have made it clear from the outset that in 10 years Ukraine will be in the 20 most developed countries of the world in quality of life and economy. It's a great target. Whom are we just going to push out of there? Maybe small and poor for South Korea's resources? But only Korea's GDP today is 1.5 trillion dollars, and Ukraine's GDP is 1 trillion, but only a penny. Surprisingly, the problem can be overwhelming, since Korea was in Somalia in its own time. But they did the trick: they took forward the scientific and technological innovations at the time. And all, "the Korean miracle" took place literally in a few years. Today they have advanced nanotechnology on their weapons, for them it's the alphabet of the economy, and for us it's higher mathematics, because there's not even a word on the program. Can something be modernized without science and modern technology? Answer: In the 2012 budget, there is a 6-fold decline in funding for scientific and technological development. Not surprisingly, over the last two years, thousands of gifted youths have gone abroad, where they are truly valued. And where is our native "power of the forged valley," this sort of "incubator" for genius and talent? To whom do our Ukrainian breakthrough to the tops of the world’s twentieth? It's not in the past. The intellectual voice causes the proportion of enterprises that make any kind of innovation to be slightly more than 10 percent. Comments are unnecessary. The other one. The global economy on which we depend too much is on the threshold of a new crisis. As a country that is export-oriented, raw, and very sensitive to external factors, we face difficult times. Where's the exit? In the immediate development of the internal market. In the program, unfortunately, this is not a top priority. Perhaps we should look at Brazil’s experience, which was a semicolonial economy 20 years ago. And today this country is a "locomotive" of world development, a member of the Big Twenties. What did they do? They passed an excellent law on import with a specific list, stages that and when should be produced in their own country. Now in Brazil, there's everything, all of it, up to the light bulb, any crisis, like India, China, that's the same way. What do we have? And we have an unrestrained increase in imports, 6 times in 10 years. In Ukraine, China’s production has already been shoveled and not just them. Why do we raise this question so sharply? Imports will increase to a record 750 billion dollars next year. Isn't it too much to support a foreign producer, given that the national production pay fund is just about 260 billion dollars? The only way out is to import and alternative sources and types of energy. And here, Ukraine's capabilities are unique, starting with all kinds of biological fuel. Where are these things in the budget program? Third. An extremely sensitive and timely demographic problem. It requires urgent, systematic decisions. What Is Really? In addition to helping with the birth of a child, there is virtually nothing. The cost of education and health care is not the lowest in Europe. To support youth housing, there are as many as 5.5 million dollars. New jobs, active and healthy leisure, sports, culture, and so on. Can you agree with that?? But it's not a huge amount of money. Four. Areas, cities, and villages are the world’s main pillars of growth and development. Three more years ago, we made revolutionary proposals: to reach every village, city, to allow for their own development through maximum freedom and independence, especially financial ones. What you're proposing today is nothing more than building a rigid administrative vertical, where the maximum concentration of funds in the center, and no autonomy, the initiative in places does not have to be expected. What nation is then being built? Do you remember how the entire country was shocked at the amount of money allocated to maintain administrative, administrative, and administrative equipment? So the alarming trend continues for the following year. Because of these challenges, there is an astronomical amount of nearly 17 billion dollars. And for social protection of people with disabilities, Chernobyl, war veterans and laborers, other vulnerable categories, more than 15 million people -- just 13.5 billion. It is considered that the Law on the Cancellation of Benefits has already been adopted. You won't say in a short speech. But that's enough to get two large Talmuds, whose name is Statebage and Program, to immediately bring the government back for substantial work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the factions are over. Now we're moving on to the national MPs -- 45 minutes, as we agreed. Please set your time. Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich. Oh, I'm sorry, dear colleagues, but the faction hasn't made any speeches yet. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach is from the faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u70	Thank you. Honorable National MPs, distinguished members of the sittings, are invited! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering the most important issues that will determine the further development of the state, the economy, the welfare of Ukrainian citizens. The State Programme project, the 2012 State Budget project, are the documents that are targeted, and these are the conclusions, including independent experts, first and foremost, for solving the two most pressing problems, are the modernisation of Ukraine's economy, its competitiveness and the minimization of the risks of the possible global financial crises. It is a positive principle that, for the first time in recent years, Ukraine's State Budget project for the following year is being considered in conjunction with the National Social and Economic Development Programme project of Ukraine. And this allows us to make complex systemic decisions, based on the fact that an efficient economy is the source of an efficient budget and an effective socio-economic policy as a whole. At the same time, we propose to the government to strengthen some of the directions set out in the projects of the State Programme and the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. First of all, we need to combine our efforts together and take real and practical steps towards creating a real economy in Ukraine with credit resources, of course, on a return basis. To date, everyone needs to understand that without an effective credit system, there will be no reforms or development. It is therefore very important that both the text and the programmes and the government policy clearly identify these priorities, including through joint effective action by the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank, starting with a renewed confidence in the banking system, a higher level of responsibility and effectiveness of the refinancing mechanisms, prioritization, measures to reduce the cost of credit resources, etc. This is a matter of principle. We are grateful for the opposition she has shown in this room, including economic patriotism, when it comes to increasing the negative external trade balance. Therefore, both in the programme and in all financial policies, the issue of protection of the internal market by modern methods should be of strategic importance. In particular, it is very important that our joint activities be recorded in the programme, bearing in mind that Ukraine already has such normative possibilities for optimizing the conditions of Ukraine's participation in the World Trade Organization, based on the balance between our national economic interests and the interests of our partners. Agro-industrial complex. We'd like the government to pay attention to the program and write out more clearly the government's intentions to create a modern export infrastructure, including in a separate mode the issue of the introduction of myths into grain exports. It is very important to strengthen the direction of the animal program, unfortunately we have negative indicators here and the external dependence of Ukraine on the supply of animal products is growing, our food security. State support mechanisms for the above - mentioned sectors It is essential to create a conducive environment for the self-employment of our people, especially in the face of systemic crises. Therefore, the development of small, medium-sized businesses, the creation of favourable conditions should be clearly reflected in the National Enterprise Development Programme and provided with balanced resources. We propose to the government, together with Parliament, to join forces and adopt Bill 8521, which allows for a substantial improvement in the conditions of entrepreneurial activity. Of course, it is very serious, small-scale government debt work, security sector issues, and improved public procurement. On the basis of the foregoing, the faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to adopt the Ukrainian National Economic and Social Development Programme 2012 bill as the basis for the adoption of the 2012 draft State Budget, to join forces and to adopt these laws in a timely manner as the basis for effective development of the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u71	Najdenov is handing over the right to speak to a colleague of Kzarykov, a faction of Communists, please. Next will be Michael Tomenko in place of Wonderland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u72	I would like first of all to draw attention to a very important indicator that ministers do not pay attention to today, namely, the minimum subsistence rates in our country. The fact is, if you make clear language, the minimum standard of living is the minimum acceptable standard of living. It's still based on the food basket. I remind the Government and the Minister of Finance that we have our last consumer basket in 2000, although it has to be revised by law every five years. And this level is now approximately 622-623 bracelets. In order to understand the lack of figures on budget deficits, I would simply like to introduce the norms that are set out there, and we today have, according to data from the Ministry, the following indicators: 106 grams of bread per day, 10 grams of pasta, 5 grams of Greek, half egg, 5.5 national wealth – hall and 25 grams of sausage. If the cost of this basket, which I recall has not been reviewed in nearly 15 years, the non-food group has a large number of poverty rates: one shoe for 4 years, one shoe for 3 years and one shoe for 3 years. With this, indeed, the percentage of our population may not be poverty, but poverty. For example, in this consumer basket, the Government is still counting and charging 20 per cent -- 120 bracelets. You are all well aware that no Ukrainian citizen, given the concessional categories, will be able to pay the debt to the State. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that yesterday, when the representative of Minfin, Mr. Merkovsky was on the committee, on our profile, I asked him, "Do you put in the budget to really meet this terrible normative rule of IMF 2.5 per cent deficit, deprivation of benefits, famous law 9127?" Thus, there are still positions in this budget on what you promised the protesters that 9127 would enter into force. Accordingly, Minfin and the Cabinet of Ministers expect these benefits to be cut or eliminated. Again, these were said yesterday by Mr. Merkowski. I also remind you that you have not listened to the faction of the Ukrainian Company, to the appeals of our leader, Peter Simonenko, and did not give up the cooperation with the IMF next year. You want 15.5 billion from the IMF, 7 billion from China, 4 billion from the Russian Federation, 3 billion from the World Bank and 3 billion from the EBRD. I remind you, you issued a $1.3 billion bond last week. If you serve $1.3 billion a week, of course, no budget, no government with one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u73	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u74	Ukraine calls for the dissolution of cooperation with the IMF and the eventual return of your Government to the people will, unfortunately, produce the same results.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u75	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko. The next will be Viacheslav Kirilenko instead of Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, today we have the opportunity to analyze two budgets, because whoever read the document provided by the government realized that there are two budgets in front of us: one optimistic for big business and power, one pessimistic for people and local communities. I'd say one too pessimistic, one too optimistic. In this optimistic budget, we see a radical increase in government spending, which is obviously not prepared for a financial and economic crisis. I've heard that there's going to be a crisis all over the world, for the Ukrainian authorities, there's no big business crisis. We're about to have one and a half billion dollars from the President's Department of Public Affairs. This is a separate state in the Ukrainian State that lives, does not suffer, and does not have a crisis. I thought, obviously, the authorities will understand that there's going to be some kind of strike, a rally, so there's going to be an increase in the cost of maintaining law enforcement structures, and there's going to be 70 million for the State Security Administration this year. If you ask what for the people and the local communities, well, the local communities, first of all, no one asked. I don’t know how the budget was discussed: no district council members, no local councils were involved. I hope they'll be involved later, because there's nothing good for local communities here as well. There are no people. I think my advice to the government is that the income part of the budget should be filled, not by veterans, Chernobyl and Afghans, but by millionaires and billionaires, as they do today throughout Europe. Enter the solidarity tax, and let the people share, and we will form a normal budget. If you say two words about the humanitarian sphere, it's a fashion trend. The government is increasing the code, and it is not possible to understand where this money is going. A minister and a group of people will share this money and look at it -- it's basically impossible. This monopolization of the budget, of course, she asked her colleague Baranov, and I'll answer that, will radically increase corruption, because if large projects are shared by a number of people, corruption is increasing. Such a principle is unacceptable because there is nothing to expect without transparency in the budget process. By the way, the opposition expects the President to make a decision, and we're going to choose from the opposition to the head of the Court of Auditors, because I think there's going to be a lot of things for the Court of Auditors in this budget. There's a lot of work to do. There, at every step of the way, or for a particular businessman, you can call it preference, or for a particular sector that this billionaire is leading. Finally, I wanted to show the government that the government is not in trouble. First we were handed out this two - celled unit, and today we were handed out. It's called the best paper and a cover like that. I think there's a lot of money for books. This morning I was looking for money for the 54th John Frank this year, 150 years. For 155 years, Ivan Frank, Derterradio, refused to finance. a printed book, and a draft budget on the best paper and with such a cover.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u77	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u78	That's enough money for this book. So I think the problem for the Ukrainian state in 2012 is if we live under two budgets. If we respect this country and respect ourselves, we must work together: opposition, power, local self-government -- to make one budget: the Ukrainian budget for Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u79	I think we should thank Kabminu for giving us a nice piece of paper so that we can read easily. Kirilenko Viacheslav After him, Korz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u80	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, the police are asking for much more than 12 and a half billion, says it is not enough. Let's say she doesn't have to hunt down her citizens who do justice. Today, 17-year-old student Darya Stepanenko was handing flowers to the minister of education (in paws) Ukraine's Tobacco, and she decided that it doesn't deserve flowers, it deserves a slap on those flowers. And that slap did. [[Applause]] What did the police do? Right in the directory, on the street of the Citadel, in the juvenile room. She's a 17-year-old student of the Kiev-Magilian Academy! Only under the pressure of MP Andria Paruba just, eight minutes ago, was released. Thus, we will be very careful to follow now how the Tobacco and the authorities will view the student’s teaching: Will not the old scheme of the Stalinic and present - day executions take place over it? Because this slap was not just for Daria Stepanenko’s student, it was a slap on the part of the entire Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] For over a year and a half, the Smoker is abusing the Ukrainians, and for over a year and a half he has provoked social tension. For a year and a half, Azarov allegedly took it off and allegedly disagreed with his policies. For two and a half years he is threatened by Janukovic, other high - ranking workers, and we see that this is just a game. So their decision today was made by a patriotic student, 17-year-old Daria Stepanenko, who gave this slap.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u81	Viacheslav Anatoliyevich, budgeted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u82	I'm going back to the budget. It won't be worth any money to the Ministry of Education as long as this Ministry of Education is headed by Dmitri Tobacco. And so, speaking of the budget, we're saying that this slap given today by the patriotic student Daria Stepanenko to the Ukrainian minister, Dmitri Tobacco, from the name of the entire Ukrainian people must be converted to a signature made by a pen that will be deposited by the Ukrainian people in the hands of President Janukovic. If he's not the president of the province of the Stalinese Russian Empire, and he's the President of the sovereign independent proud Ukraine, and then we'll be fine if the patriots are in power, both with the budget, with the government, with the VAT, with the GDP, with the inflation, and with all the indicators that are so high today, the government is submitting to Parliament's consideration. We do not trust such a government approach. And that's why the patriots, the group "For Ukraine!", "Our Ukraine," the UNP will not vote for this budget. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u83	The opposition is not the only one because not everyone has been named. Korgee, please, the BUT faction. Who? Senchenko, please. Get ready, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u84	Andrey Sanchenko, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Father's Party. Respectable colleagues, the respectable Ukrainian people, who have submitted a paper to Parliament, have prepared a very poor document. Therefore, it is still possible to analyse not as many figures as intentions and trends. Because the figures are in the explanatory note and in the budget, in fact, they come together badly. Well, first, with regard to macro indicators, it is clear that the indicators have been driven to the standard wishes of the International Monetary Fund and do not reflect Ukrainian reality. The budget deficit, which is projected at 2.5 per cent, is thus underestimated, but the entire expert community is saying that it is unfortunate to expect 4.5 per cent or more. GDP growth, which is called realistic, I think is overly optimistic, unfortunately, and as a result of the actions of the authorities, will look much less modest, at least up to three per cent. Inflation, which is planned at 7.9 per cent, is also unstoppable. I think they're going to do statistics again and try to give up what they want for what's real. Well, a separate problem is that the authorities continue to concentrate their resources in their fists, cutting local budgets, and continue to actively talk about local self-government, and as the Minister of Finance recently said in his interview, the self-sufficiency of local budgets. Thus, the ratio of funds to local budgets and to the consolidated budget is 22 per cent of the consolidated budget to the local budget. Tax revenue, well, what's at stake is a 14-percent increase, says that in a non-growth production environment, it's just going to be a total prescribing of business. The next figure is an overcompensation fund. This suggests that there is a need to prepare for a repressive scenario of the legalization of wages, regardless of whether the enterprise is actually able to pay them or not. Mr. Tigypto's famous script. Next, unrealistic direct investment plans, plus six billion. Well, everybody knows that there's not just no investment climate in the country, they're running from the country, their own citizens -- big, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are afraid of investing money, and they're counting on six billion direct investment flows, six billion dollars, it's just unrealistic. In the social sphere, you can say, you know, one broad phrase: power does not intend to share the budget with the people. Thus, the subsistence minimum at the end of 2012 would only correspond to the actual subsistence minimum for mid-2011. I mean, it's actually a one-and-a-half-year delay. However, the cost of the force, the former law enforcement agencies, and now the drivers of the regime, are practically growing on the rigors: the Attorney General's Office - plus 9, the Ministry of Internal Affairs - plus 6, the BSS - plus.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u85	Thank you. Cibenko Peter, please. Get Bondarenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u86	Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Given the very limited regulations, a few thesis on the budget is quite clear. First of all, I, working with the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons as the first deputy head of the committee, also head the largest veteran organization, made up of more than 10 million Ukrainian citizens. In the last two weeks, we've received 97 phone calls from the Veterans' Council. In just two weeks. If you bring them to the common denominator, and you have to add that in a number of regions, there have also been protests, so if you bring all of these references to the common denominator, and these are addressed first to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council, and the Veterans' Council has received copies of them, then veterans are required to stop the practices, cuts and eliminations of the established legislation, I stress, social benefits for veterans through the State Budget Act. In the distant year 2000, then Prime Minister Yushchenko established this shameful practice, and subsequent governments only continued and deepened it. So veteranism requires this very end to this shameful practice. I'm saying this before there's another negotiation under Law 9127, so in the form of negotiators from the government, such experts that the well-known Moses is resting in front of them, compared to them. The other one. For all citizens of Ukraine, especially veterans, and all the elderly, the problem of medical care in all its manifestations is extremely acute, painful and relevant: organization, quality, accessibility, medicines prices, and timeliness. In November of last year, the organization of veterans of Ukraine, responding to a veteran’s offer, held a joint plenary with the College of the Ministry of Health. Extremely balanced and responsible decisions have been made to make a substantial improvement in this aid. But this program is hampered by a lack of limited funding. So on behalf of the Ukrainian veterans' organisation, I'm asking you to increase health funding a little bit, especially for health care. Third problem. My colleague, Eugene Kzarykov, raised the problem of living at a minimum. I'd like to add it in that context today. It's very good that we have several demographic groups and that's the right thing to do, but the difference in the size of the subsistence minimum for different social and demographic groups is extremely large, especially for veterans, this subsistence minimum is 200 dollars less than for others. I think it's a huge difference.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u87	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u88	So, dear colleagues, once again, I stress that those problems that concern the veterans have to be reflected in the State Budget project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u89	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." A colleague of Bondarenko has the right to speak. The next Vyziewsky will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u90	Dear voters! I think there's a historical moment: finally the Ukrainian government, the Ukrainian government, finally defined itself. By following logic, the authority that doesn't finance a culture that doesn't build schools and build theaters and cultural buildings will build prisons. They've already gone this way, they've come at it very firmly and forward with a flag. The evidence is very simple: increased funding, poor funding, by 250 million dollars in last year’s Ukrainian culture. Now I'm going to say, this cod money, with the cross, is going to eat up inflation in the first quarter of next year. Rather, it would seem that such poverty would require a wise sitting down, dividing each penny, and the committee suggests this, but no one ever listens to it. Instead, instead of the previous 44 positions, today they drop everything at 15. Now you realize that all the money, let's say, for children and mothers that are not actually being funded there, it's almost like everything in culture is being turned into a single cauldron and hand-managed, play brother-in-law all you want. I imagine him wiping the hands of an outstanding actor of our time and of all the nations and times of the Flood today. Knowing his grasp, I know that he will pull out everything that will be allocated to other institutions of the Ministry of Culture. This is to think, when the church is separated from power today, to set aside, I emphasize and emphasize this, not the development of the Kyiv-Pecher Reserve, but the church, which is not allowed at all. And why it's not done by the Ministry of Culture, but why it's done by the Ministry of Construction. Again, we understand very well that Paul, the manager of the Cave Laurel, does not report to you for this money and so on and so forth. I want to say that we've been asking a lot of questions about the need for an absolute Academy of Higher Qualifications for Cultural Workers. It's worth nothing, they teach people remotely, they increase their funding again, and that's when. I'd like to ask you one more question. You know, we're already talking here, I'm just going to remind you of some more numbers. Janukovič and Azarov, i.e. the Kabmin and the Administration, were destroyed, you see, health, 465 million, and all the veterans, all the disabled in our country -- only 107. And we have to do the number of payments paid by the Russian Federation for the stay of the Black Sea Fleet. A great deal of money, long ago, Ukraine has been accounted for. Why is this number hidden in the budget where I want to know? Why it's not legal, but it's about debt today, as experts have estimated, that almost $18 billion is Russia's fault. Do it, gentlemen, in our government, do it. And in the end, I'll say that the most important kind of art for them is real estate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u91	The National Deputy of the Vizier faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" will be followed by Mikol Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u92	Dear Ukrainians, I have a document that's based on this government program, this document is called the Constitution of Ukraine, it's the first set, but you'll understand, it's very fast here that it's not being implemented, and no one has any intention of doing it. The second document in the formation of the State Economic and Social Development Programme is the election program of candidate Yanukovic "Ukraine for People". I think we've all come to realize that this is "Ukraine for individual people." Because of the program he proposed to the deputy minister yesterday at the Social Policy Committee: which of the programme items is budgeted for 2012 and for Ukraine's economic programme and social development? The deputy minister was only able to distribute his hands. And so I want to give you an example of how this so-called program is being implemented. First. What's going on in our eyes? What kind of state under this program do we want to build? This document, on page 40, states that the proportion of the poor in Ukraine, even under-social standards, was 24.1 per cent in 2010, 1 out of every 4 Ukrainians. In 2012, a 26 - percent increase in the proportion of the poor is planned, yet again in an even more underprivileged social aspect, which is the minimum wage. Again, this program says we should be 50 million. And the question is, in what way? Again, this program shows a clear path, as 50 million of us are meant to be. Because there is no improvement and promotion of childbearing in Ukraine. The programme proposed by the President and the cost of this is not in the 2010 budget, not in 2011, nor in 2012 budget, but the programme indicates that there should be 250 dollars per month for children under 13 years and for children between 13 and 18 years of age for 50 dollars per month. The entire office of Presidential Affairs has not been provided with such funds. Instead, with regard to improving the demographic situation in Ukraine, the state programme provides that we need to use our migration process to address the demographic situation, and you mean leaving those illegals in Ukraine, that's what we're talking about in the program. So I think that Ukrainians will become less and less in Ukraine, and those illegals will become more and more, who will eventually want to take over Ukrainian citizenship and take control of Ukraine with the non-Ukrainian authorities. That's why I'd like to propose to the legislators that the president is not a bad guy, and the state budget is not a "community." And that's why we have to share it with people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u93	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the proposal is this, we agreed to consider this matter by procedure so that as many deputies as possible could speak. Let's finish our consideration of the issues, and then let's define the break, taking into account the situation that we need to consider at 12:30 about the appointment and release of judges. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u94	Nikolai Kravchenko, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, who are positive in the programme, in my view, is that, for example, for the first time, I have heard that the Government has begun to talk about the elements of planning in our real life. But on the other hand, I was struck by the two indicators that are present in this program. First of all, the Government plans to increase the number of poor people from 24 per cent to 26th. This is unacceptable, even if the economy is “hammering”, even if the economy is truly balanced, but it is unacceptable, to set such goals in the programme. Secondly, I saw, as a representative of Donbass, a beautiful health reform in the Donetsk region. Dear colleagues, I will not discuss the internal content of this reform today. But sit down again and see, you're building a dark village. Take the examples of our previous mistakes: the missiles were cut by political action. We gave the SAT a chance when we were happy here to tell you what huge prospects we're going to have, to draw the numbers we're going to get, the money. We've given up the internal market today, today we've ruined our meat-combinants processing, the area. We lost 85,000 jobs today. And we sit still, and we think it'll work. Therefore, I ask the Government to find the author of this idea. This idea is lifeless, this idea is not supported by any material, financial, or resource. We can't take Novoazowska to the Telmanovo people. It's impossible and never will be. So think about it. In the case of 9127, none of the speakers here, I mean the Government, said what decision you would take. Are you going to take the last thing that can be taken from the 16 categories of the population? This is where the representatives of the FTT are speaking. Dear colleagues and from the BIT, remember, the trade deficit of the trade balance was the first time in Timoshenko. And I spoke from this rostrum, but then the political situation was such that Julius Vladimirovna could not be touched, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u95	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, non-factional. Next up will be Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u96	Oleg Lazko. Dear government officials, I am addressing you. Today, you may have spent the night in your home’s soft laundry. And I'm in Lugansk with the neighborhoods in tents. Hundreds of people at the Lugansk district administration demand that the government do not take the benefits from them. No official from the Lugani district administration, three days of people standing under the administration, never went out, never got in touch with them. I appeal to government officials, commit officials, teach them to communicate with people, not to hide behind doors, behind fences, and behind militiamen. So, for the Lugani Chernobyls that I spent the night in the tent with, for all the Chernobyls, for the Afghans all over Ukraine, for millions of people, I want to say that in the budget project they submitted, you don't have the aid. [[B in m in s a l in]] You listen to this bunch scream, how they hate you like they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u97	Please. I beg you, without the words "scoffin," continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u98	Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's tell the truth. The last thing they want to do is take away the eyes that are sitting here. The parliamentary majority, the government -- tens of billions -- take away everything. The day before yesterday, those who came to the Supreme Council, the Afghans, the Chernobylites, were promised to take their offer into account. In the budget that you've submitted, there's no more aid for you, citizens of the Ukraine. Instead, one and a half billion to support the President, nearly a billion to maintain the Supreme Council, billions to go, billions to objects, zero to children of war, zero to veterans, failure to comply with the Chernobyl law, and failure to comply with a number of other social laws. And the government tells us that they don't have any money in the budget. He's got the money on him. You tell people where you're going to spend the $12 billion you're going to borrow next year. We had $170 billion that we've had in 20 years? You've led the people to the pen, you're all fat, you're all sitting for billions, you're sharing this money, you don't know, they're already crawling into all of your holes, and you're taking the last of your people. If you think the people stopped the other night, he'll be here tomorrow. I urge you to stop, withdraw the budget, give ordinary citizens what is theirs and give them enough, because you're going to end badly. This is a word from millions of Ukrainian citizens who asked me to give you. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u99	Yes, Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Catherine Samuel will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u100	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Respectable citizens, countrymen, respectable colleagues! You know, when in the background of the barrage reports, statements, including such a book, a nice state economic and social development program in Ukraine, where data is just falsified. Because they include, for example, the Equinox, mentioned three times, from the State Budget, those objects that are already built on the funds already allocated by the government of Yulia Timoshenko: this is a school in Tiny, already open where children are taught, in the Sarnin region, in Corchina, in other locations, and there are many such objects. However, I do not want to divide Ukraine into areas of Ukraine. Such an approach to no government has ever been, and this is a demonstration of how today’s authorities are actually disintegrating Ukraine, including budget allocations. And what they're talking about here is the Afghans, the Chernobyls, the war veterans, the fighters, the medical workers, and the other 16 categories that are deprived of not just the aid, but their social guarantees, there's no line in this budget, and that's why they're in such a hurry to adopt this anti-national and anti-social law. Where are the 8,000 short military personnel now? Why do we have 15 billion in the army, and on the IMF, today's security structure, there's 14 out there. This is because the business today, which really works and cooperates with the people, has no way of getting to that village. Do they have up to 17 villages to serve? Why are Mercedes for escorts, helicopters, some sort of site being built today, but not the intended cost to buy apartments for the homeless of all categories of power structures? Where is the promise of pensions in 1200 dollars this year? Instead, the minimum wage goes up by 62 bracelets, the minimum wage goes up by 61. Then the question to the government: When will this responsibility be borne by this government? Why are your programs so unfulfilled today? And I think that slap that student gave to that anti-Ukrainian minister is a very gentle slap, wait for the slap that will give you the whole Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u101	Catherine Seminalic, Communist faction. Please, your performance. Svetlan Schmelov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear Andrew Petrovich, Fedor Alexiovich! I want to focus on specific issues relating to the education sector. We cannot help but agree that the National Budget of Ukraine does not provide for the indexation of scholarships for those in higher education institutions. And that's why I specifically propose to increase these articles by 328 million dollars and to implement the People's Money Income Index Act. Next. It is a matter of great concern that the public service and energy bills of the State Budget project account for 20 percent of the need. We know what this will lead to - to debt. I don't know who's going to pay for utilities in that case. Next. We don't just have Euro-2012, we have the Olympics in August next year. You've only foreseen 980 million dollars of money in total, there's no cost of participating in training. And how does the state get the license? I'm already silent about any of the questions that the President of Ukraine is always talking about about building football fields with artificial coatings, playgrounds, and no amount of money. And finally, if we shorten and fold the program of long-term youth lending. So we have to say that we're going to watch how our young people in the world are doing in search of jobs and jobs. Well, what is 60 million on this program, is basically five apartments in every area. The least you need is 700, well, in any case, the optimal option is 200 million. And in the end, we talk a lot about reform. Could there be reform without an innovative component? Of course, no, there will be no reforms without an innovative approach, and we will continue to circumcise, eliminate. And that's why I'm proposing code 2209070 increase funding by at least 10 million to make reform sound. And finally, for those of you who have been especially stripping their embroidered shirts, give back the money you've put on advertising yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u103	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u104	Make this money up to the people. And then you won't have to sleep with men in tents.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u105	Svetlana Schmelov, Communist faction. Vladislav Lukyanov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u106	Please pass the word Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u107	Sergey Gordienko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u108	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, our guests, who represent all the regions of Ukraine, the distinguished voters! For 20 years, we have not had an interested conversation about Ukraine's social and economic development plans and programmes. For 20 years, we're not talking about how to develop an economy, but we're talking about how to divide and redistribute. I would like to say today, perhaps, to thank the government for, even though there is a first attempt at planning in our country itself, because life without plans and balances is the way of helping a blind person. I would also like to say the following, my dear fellows, this is what we're showing and we're seeing that the liberal approach to the idea that the market economy will lead us to prosperity and well-being without plans has failed. I would also like to say that in society today, there is a huge contradiction between what is being produced and what is being distributed and what is becoming social contradictions. Today, the government is trying to follow the path of cutting social benefits and sawing. As if it were a pragmatic step, but it does not cut off the benefits, it cuts off those compensators that were given for the loss of health by the Chernobyl, the military, and others. The faction of the Company of Ukraine has always opposed this approach, and it offers specific mechanisms and concrete levers to fill the State Budget rather than talking about additional costs. Dear government officials! Today, all Ukrainian citizens talk about it. That you're taking the benefits from us today, and why don't you support the laws and proposals of the Company of Ukraine that are aimed at filling the State Budget and the local budgets? And these are proposals for a progressive tax scale. Taxation, and it's sort of delayed until 2014 and other years. Why are we not here today talking about the introduction of a tax on wealth and luxury, which is also deferred until 2014? Why we're not having a serious, interesting conversation today about the rational use of nadr, and I'm saying as a representative of Poltavščina that we're just robbing our nadrs today and from what we're giving to our nadrs, it's practically nothing to Ukraine's state budget. Let's think about the increase in rent payments today, and my bills are also aimed at that. And faction buddies. Let's think about how to leave part of the rent to those depressed categories where they're being extracted, the ecology is being destroyed, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u109	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u110	Ecology is being destroyed, and it is necessary to leave these funds for the development of the territory itself. These are serious problems, and we need to take them seriously and take them into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u111	Thank you. Vladislav Lukyanov, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next will be Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u112	Dear Ukrainian citizens, life itself has divided this hall into two halves: one half is people who work their whole lives, achieve results, improve lives, solve real problems; and there's another half who's been lying, lying and waving, they've been burning reality all their lives, they've been creating problems all their lives. These words are confirmed by the facts. We can see how our country has developed over the last 10 years. We see 2003-2004. The government of the Party of Regions. And we're seeing growth in the economy: 9 percent, 12 percent. 2005 There's another team coming. We have a drop in growth rate of more than 10 percent. GDP growth is declining to almost zero. 2 percent increase after the power is transferred in a state of 10 to 12 percent increase. These economic growth rates have put our country at the level of the world's leading countries, at the level of the countries that investors were in turn to. Today the situation is changing. We see in 2006 that the Party of Regions is back in power. And again, the growth rate is 7 percent, 8 percent. 2008-2009: the worst economic disaster in the country, the decline rate of GDP is minus 15 percent. What's more, you leave tens of billions of dollars in debt, you leave behind a bond agreement on gas supply. Now the government of Azarov under the leadership of our team, the Party of Regions, is doing everything they can to break these cable conditions. And even in these cabal conditions, we're doing everything we can to make the economy recover. After a 15 - percent drop, we can see that we have lost sight. The decline in gross domestic product, 2010, 2011 - a 5 per cent decline in growth in 2010 - is 5 per cent increase in 2011. That's the same indicator we're setting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u113	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u114	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u115	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u116	When you look at social indicators, the situation gets even sadder, but in the absence of time, I won't give you a figure.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u117	Okay, okay. Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u118	I want to begin my report with a question to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and personally to the First Deputy Prime Minister, because there is no Prime Minister. Did you read what you brought to Parliament? Five hundred pages of text that has no goals, no goals, no solutions. I'm officially asking you to bring this to Parliament's attention, this is President Janukovitch's program, not on five hundred pages, but on eight, none of which has been completed in the last two years. You don't solve any of the problems that you went to the elections with, what you promised and what you lied about. The opposition has introduced its alternative Social and Economic Development Programme. But unfortunately, Parliament has refused to accept this program, and we are not allowed to present an alternative plan for the country's development, but we will do it for the second reading. First. We demand that the President, the Prime Minister, and the entire Cabinet of Ministers report on what they have done in the last two years before promising the next three. The other one. As far as the Ukrainian State Budget Act is concerned. I analyzed it in detail. Thus, first, the social articles of the budget are frozen, and 22 billion dollars are removed from the Pension Fund’s budget. The other one. In the draft budget, the government clearly determines that poverty in Ukraine will increase by 10 per cent. This is the improvement they promised. Third. Naftogazu is granted an additional 13 billion dollars, while increasing the tariffs on heat and gas. Four. This budget has planned loans that go over $60 billion of Ukraine's external debt, which is more than $2,000 for each Ukrainian. Who's going to pay for this? I hope that those who have the greatest fortunes who are members of the Party of Regions and those on the Forbes magazine list will pay for it. Next. The funding of the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the President's Administration -- 18 billion dollars in total -- is twice as much as the financing of education and medicine in our country. In the Euro 2012, there is not enough money spent today, the Euro gold, to spend more on the Euro than on the financing of all medicine. Next, the budget figures, we're going to have economic growth higher than in China, America, the European Union. They don't match the real indicators of how the world is going to move. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u119	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u120	The government plans to increase business pressure and tax 39 billion more. That's because a third of the business is closed. There's only one way out. Call off the budget, call off the socio-economic development programme. We demand a meeting with the President. So he can explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have 26 national deputies. We're done here. You know, honourable colleagues, that following the discussion of the draft State Budget Act for the following year, the Supreme Council, in accordance with the Budget Code, and in accordance with the Rules, may decide to reject and refer to the government. Then he should work for a week, for seven days, and return it to the Supreme Council. In view of this draft decision, I would like to give the floor to Sergio Teryochin to justify the draft decision. Then the final word, if necessary, the first Vice-Prime Minister or Minister of Finance, there will be questions, then you will answer questions if you are ready. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u122	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. There are supposed to be smart people in this room. Most of you have steamers, hot dogs, airplanes. If you were stupid, you wouldn't have any steamers and planes. So the question is rhetorical: why should you vote for this stupid budget? I'm just going to stop at a little social aspect. According to the global economic forecast published by the currency fund this Tuesday, yesterday, Ukraine saw a deterioration in its inflation forecast for 2012 from 7.7 to 8.5 percent, with an average of 9.2 percent. This is important for analysing the social priorities of the government. As an appendix to the State Budget project, we got a estimate of the size of the minimum of living. In it, the government assumed intended statistical manipulations. First, to justify the growth rate of the cost of living minimum, the government took as a base on December 1, 2011 and compared it with December 31st of the following year, i.e. it bought one additional month. Instead, the real subsistence minimum should be estimated at the average annual inflation from 1 January to 31 December of each fiscal year. By applying the standard statistical method, the nominal subsistence minimum for children under 6 years of age is going to increase by 4 percent, and the real subsistence minimum is going to fall by 3.9. And according to the IMF inflation forecast, yesterday’s children will fall by 4.5 percent per year. The same will be true of working persons and other categories of the population. If you don't even consider other statistical manipulations as a minimum of one average person with total disregard for the demographic composition of the country, it turns out that people will be completely destitute in bread if you want a fat index or a runner, at least by 4 percent, and if the currency fund is actually projected to be 7. On this background, it seems cynical to suggest giving higher authorities and local queens 16.6 billion pennies to keep their pants on, which is only 13.9 for social protection. By the way, on the financial committee yesterday, we asked Mr. Merkowski, the representative of Minfin: are there 10 billion of those minimum payments for Chernobyl, Afghans and so on? Not counting, we were answered. So even a proposal by the head of the Party of the Regions to support the status quo next year, as in this budget, is not reflected, that is, lied again. Pursuant to the Budget Code, if the draft budget contradicts the main directions of the budgetary policy approved by the decision and it contradicts in four parts, it must be sent back to the government to remedy the situation. So I made this decision about the rejection of the Ukrainian State Budget project. I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u123	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u124	That my speech resembles a kind of ritual dance, because despite the fact that I hope people here are not stupid, the budget will still be voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u125	Thank you. I'm just one, dear colleagues, I'll say I don't have to. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! As I speak, I turn to others: I do not need to compare my wealth to all the national deputies and tell them that they have all the yachts. If you have them, most of the people here are honest, decent, working people, so you need to speak calmly. You hope so. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of two issues. I'm asking First Deputy Prime Minister Andrey Cloev, and then Fedor Jaroshenko. Dear colleagues, this is a decision-making process.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u126	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! We thank the government for the very constructive discussion of the Social and Economic Development Programme 2012-2014 and the budget project 2012, 2013, 2014. All your constructive suggestions, your distinguished national MPs, will be taken into account in preparing for the second reading. And I would ask you to accept Ukraine's Social and Economic Development Programme for 2012-2014 in the first reading, and to accept the budget for consideration under the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u127	Feder Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u128	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable members of the people, I would also like to emphasize my sincere thanks for the intense discussion you have had with us today, and I think it is very important to us. We're all your suggestions, as Andrew Petrovich said, we're working and the second reading will be taken into account. As to the questions asked here. There was a lot of discussion about the benefits, and the government took it. The government didn't take anything. And, ladies and gentlemen, read, there are also all the lines written: we added to the children of war, yesterday on the budget committee we considered all these issues and discussed, and by the Chernobyls, it's all going up. But the boundaries are extremely extreme, they're still unfavorable for a hundred percent to do all of this. Therefore, in our second reading, we will consult, work, and consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Obviously, there is a good thing to say that the government has not been able to introduce the socio-economic development programme for the first time, along with the draft budget, and more than that, has offered to look at the 2012 horizon. How did the government do this? I think the fact itself is positive. Let's keep looking at what we can specifically offer in terms of defining the basic parameters in the socio-economic sphere of life of the country. The second positive is that the budget has been given at the right time. We have October-November month to work it out. It is clear that we need to find a common language with the government to see which reserve is there, if they put it in order to take into account what the speakers are talking about, including those issues that are extremely sensitive and that relate primarily to Ukrainian culture. And, dear fellows, of course, the budget doesn't satisfy us, none of us here is satisfied. This is an obvious fact: the budget can't always be good, just as a person can't always talk about having enough money, having enough money, not enough money, not enough money. And everything that will be in the budget will also be criticized. So I would have missed, my dear fellows, that we would have all of our findings, our management, our competitions, which would be more subtle, especially considering the change of disposition, so that we could translate into practically well-founded proposals. So what I'm proposing to the committee and all the other committees is logic, argument and basic understanding of what the State Budget of Ukraine is? And to the end. I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers along with the Committee of Budgets in some. To clear the words "the national MPs of Ukraine", especially where they have nothing to do with anything. I mean, first of all, the question of medical care. I've given you some help. In Clinic No. 1 and No. 2, 60,000 people are attached -- both civil servants and nationals, and deserved, and so on. And in the first place is "national MPs," and then everybody else. And it is clear that the people love the MPs so much, and when they read it, they are ready to choke them in their arms. So let's be tolerant here in this respect. Dear colleagues, we need to come to a decision now. On the first question, I am referring to the draft Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for 2012 and the main directions for development for 2013-1014. There's a project that's been handed out by the committee, a fingerprint, and it's about 2012, and I'd like to take that into account. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on this proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for 2012 and the main directions for development for 2013-2014. [[Registration number of the draft decision 9159-P]] Please vote. [[12:37:02]] For 271 Decision taken. Please show the factions. Region Party - 185, "BUT - "Patkaščina" - 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 9, communists - 25, "Reforms for the Future" - 20, National Party - 20, non-fractional - 12. Dear colleagues, given that the Budget Code, as well as the Rules of the Supreme Council, provides for the possibility of a single decision to be taken when the budget is presented, a decision to reject the State budget. And the Supreme Council should now consider a draft of an appropriate decision. [[author - Sergey Teryohin]] I will now, honourable colleagues, put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine rejecting the draft State Budget of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9000/P]] I'd like to make a statement. The author is Sergey Teryohin. He made a report on this matter. [[12:38:16]] For-90 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT - "Patkashtina" – 62, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 26, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, National Party – 0, non-fractional - 2. Thus, honourable colleagues, the 2012 State Budget project becomes, as it were, property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and needs to be prepared for its first reading. What, what? Dear colleagues, two issues are closed. Now we need to consider the question of appointment, the dismissal of judges. Well, the judges are waiting, let's go now. Dear colleagues, I ask you, 100 people of judges, let's respect them. I beg you to agree. Your unanimous approval is accepted. Now, dear colleagues, we're going to have a meeting of the Advisory Board. We will continue to discuss the issue of the formation of local budgets. And the Supreme Council is running a state-of-the-art operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u130	Your Honor, the Rules of Procedure Act requires a recess, you know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. At 12:30 a.m., you know, we have a tradition of Thursdays -- the question of the election and release of judges. Let's move on to the question. A draft Decree No. 9103 on the election of judges is under consideration. I invite the head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Samsin Igor Leonovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u132	The President-in-Office, the Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine carried out a review of the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of that Act, and examined the petitions of citizens of civil organizations, enterprises, the establishment of all forms of ownership of public authorities and local self-government authorities regarding the activities of candidates for the appointment of judges who had reached the Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine as a state at the time of the Commission's consideration of the issue of recommending them for election on an open-ended basis. The following draft regulations are proposed for your consideration. 9103 – select judges on an uninterrupted basis: The Lenin District Court of Vinnice, Kovalczuk Larissa Vasilovna; The Petrikow district court of Dnipropetrov district of KrotSvetlana Ivanovna; The District City Court of the Donetsk Region of Chelubeev EvgenijaVictorovich; Bilocerkow City Court of Kyiv District, Jarikov Oksana Volodymyrovna; The Pomenian Regional Court of Kirovograd, Ukraine's Vitali Valentinović; The light - watered land court of Kirovograd district of Harmash Tamara Ivanovna; The Barezov District Court of Odessa DistrictPribilova Vadim Mihajlovich; The Belyavian District Court of the Odessa District of Trušina Olga Ivanovna; The divisional district court of the Odessa district of Bobrovsk Irinu Vitaliyevna, Ilyasuk Antonin Volodymyrovna; Provincial District Courtman Harkov Hetman Ruslan Anatoliyovich; The Kyiv District Court of Harkova Kolesnik Svetlana Andriyevna; Obolon District Courtman Kyiv Shevchuk Andrija Vasilovich; District Administrative Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Lithuania Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u133	It's not Lithuania. It's Latin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u134	Latina, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any comments on the candidates? Please, Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u136	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Igor Leonidovich, this is not a matter for the judges, it's a question for you. We regularly review the procedure for the appointment of judges or the discharge of positions. We thus ensure that the system is filled with judicial personnel. The question is, what does that mean if the judicial system does not work at all? The Court of Appeal, for example, the District Court of Appeal, the administrative court of Kiev, as they told me, 5,000 applications per day they accept, they fail to register them. There's a huge box in the office where people have to drop these documents and not know how they work. My appeal since 17 July has not been registered as a member. If there is no appeal system, there is no judicial system. Why are we doing the propaganda, why are we approving judges when we're filling a system that doesn't work, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u137	That's for the High Qualifying Commission, question number one. Second, we do what the Constitution obliges us to do. No comments from the candidates? I then put to the vote the motion to adopt Order No. 9103 on the selection of judges on an untimely basis, please vote. [[12:44:59]] For 266 It's been decided. Thank you. We're looking at the draft Regulation 9103-1. Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u138	Choose judges on an untimely basis: Tomaszpil District Court of the Viennese Region of Philipczuk Oleg Volodymyrovich; Commercial City Court of the Donetsk district of TetjanaVektorovna; Yellow District Courtman Mariupol Donetske District Kovtunek Vadim Alexiyovich; Kyewo-Svetoshinsky District Court of Kyiv District of HrypunSvetlan Volodymyr; The Donetsk City Court of the Mikolai District of Srebrenica, Tetjan Valériyevna; Poltava District Court of the Poltava District of Sheludjakov Leonid Volodymyrovich; The Kyiv District Court of Poltava Chumak Olena Viktorovna; Jaskovski District Court of Cerkas district Šimczyk Roman Vasilovic Obolon district court of Kyiv Yacenko Natalija Alexiyevna The master court of Kiev Stashkova Rostislava Bogdanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u139	Thank you. No comments on the candidates? I'm voting for Order 9103-1 on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[12:46:35.]] For 271 It's been decided. We're looking at Bill 9103-2. Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u140	Select John’s Olga Vasilovna to serve as Judge of the District Court of Odessa.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u141	No comments on the candidate? Then I put to the vote Order No. 9103-2 on the election of the judge on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[12:47:14]] For 263 I'll take the order. We're looking at Bill 9101-3. about the election of judges. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u142	Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Feodosian City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Samoylova Olen Vasilovna; The Lutsky District Court of Volin County, Kovtunenko Vitali Volodymirovich; Samarsky District Court of Dnipropetrovska Sukhorukova Andrija Alexiyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u143	Are there any comments on the candidates? Please, Karpuk. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u144	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, I have a petition for the signatures of 55 citizens, mostly entrepreneurs of the city of Lucca, regarding the candidature of Kovtunek Vitali Volodymirovich. They appealed to the High Council of Justice, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. Unfortunately, this candidature has passed. According to this statement, I have sent the documents to the Committee on Justice immediately, and I am asking that this candidature be ruled out by the committee so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u145	Please, what's the board's opinion? Have you considered this question?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u146	So all the complaints that came at the time of the recommendation were considered by the commission. With regard to these complaints that came, the commission gave them a proper legal assessment, first of all, they were, all related to the court decisions that the judge ordered.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u147	So these complaints on the committee were being considered. The commission recommends a selection?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u148	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u149	There's an extra appeal, you'll see. So there are two proposals: the first proposal of the Higher Qualifications Commission to choose Kovtunek Vitaly Volodymyrovich as judge of the Lutsky District Court of Volinsk, and the second proposal to postpone the consideration of the matter. I'm voting on a motion to remove the yet-named Kovtunenka. We're voting for Decree 9103-3. Please vote. No Covtunka. [[12:49:49]] For 278 It's been decided. Yes, please, on the Coat. Is there a Vitaly Volodymyrovich? Come on, there's a microphone in there. Yes, please, Karpuk, when the last complaint came, please tell me if she was on the Higher Qualifying Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u150	So they reported that they sent complaints to the High Council of Justice and the Higher Qualifications Commission on 9 September, and there are supporting documents that they were received. And I received a complaint about my name on Monday and immediately sent it to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u151	It's decided by the session room now. There was a time when we did not adopt the new Law on Justice and the Status of Judges last year. I'm voting on the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u152	He doesn't know what he's complaining about. Complaints about court decisions. They canceled, the decisions of those courts that the judge had taken? Please tell me. Koutunenko. Come closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u153	They didn't cancel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u154	None of your decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u155	None of my decisions have been overturned.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u156	Not cancelled. I see. I'm voting on the proposal to elect an untimely judge of the Lutsky Regional Court of the Volin district of Kovtunenka Vitali Volodymirovich. Please vote. [[12:51:37]] For 258. Decision taken. The draft Decree No. 9103-4 is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u157	Choose judges on an untimely basis: the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Piscon Oksanu Pavlovna; The Lenin District Court of Venice, Ivanchenka Jaroslav Mikolayovich; Friends of the City Court of Donetsk, Lebekenk Volodymyr Alexanderovich; The Hartz city court of the Donetsk district of Nikiforov Maksim Yuriovich; The Chernyachiv District Court of the Zitomir district of Monic Bogdan Silvestrovič; The Valley District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Montasevic Svetlana Mikolayevna; The Supreme District Court of Kyiv Region of Chirkowa Glib Evgenovich; Obukhiv District Court of Kyiv District of Potabenko LarissaVictorovna; The Red Lübeck City Court of Luhansk, Igor Hennadiyovich; Severerodonian City Court of Luhansk, Turenka Sergey Ivanovich; The railway district courtist Lvov Borislavski Jury Lyubomirovich; Mirgrad District Court of Poltava District of Gordov, Alexander Andriyovich; The Kremenchuk Regional Court of Kremenchuk, Province of Krywich, Jean Alexiyevna; The Conotapian District Court of Sumo District of Tetjana Anatoliyevna; The Scottish District Court of Suma District of Yedkoymov Olen Pavlovna; The Ternopil Regional Court of Romazan Les Stepanovna; The Sosnov district court of Cherkasa RomanenkoVictoria Anatoliyevna; Obolon District Courtman Kyiv Susko Ludmila Petrovna; The District Court of Kyiv Pettnichuk Innu Vitaliyevna Lviv County Administrative Court of Zapotec Igorovich; The Montenegrin District Administrative Court of Vatamańuk Ruslan Vasilovich; Economic Court of Kyiv RegionPodolak Yuri Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u158	I don't see any comments to be made. You don't? Yes. Please, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u159	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to remove three names: the Connotapian District Court of Sumos, Judge Butok. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u160	Wait, don't rush.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u161	As for illegal decisions regarding the acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship by foreigners. Lviv district administration, Judge Zapotick. There is also a reference to the actions of judges that violate the requirements of applicable legislation when deciding on the renewal of public officials in the customs office. And there's a very serious question. And the court-martial of Kyiv County, Judge Podowak. Also, an appeal regarding the availability of grounds for the release of judges. I'd like the head of the High Council of Justice to comment -- I've approached him now -- whether he's on the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u162	Now let's do it this way. We're going to delete these three names, and then we're going to look at each one separately. Are there any other observations? None. Then I put to the vote Order 9103-4 "On the Election of Judges Untimely", with the exception of the Connotapian District Court of Butok, the Lviv District Administrative Court of Zapotec and the House Court of the Kyiv coast of Podolak. Please vote. [[12:55:55]] For 276 Decision taken. Yes, please, Auntie Anatoly Buttock to the microphone. The High Qualifying Commission had complaints? Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u163	The Higher Qualifying Commission did not have, but we do know that the Chief Justice of the Department of Cybercrime and Trafficking in Human Beings of the Ministry of the U.S.C. Kucher has been contacted about the judge, this judge, who is attached to the verification materials that are being commissioned by the High Council of Justice to refer to the Head of the State Migration Service of the Ukraine of Crow. This is what we had the information that's more than that. So we're doing a test.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u164	Right. The point of the appeal? Igor Leonovich, what are we talking about there? Oh. is the court's decision being sued?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u165	Yeah, there's a charge of court ruling, well, I don't remember, there's a migration service, there's a row not only for this judge, there's another judge, there's judges, there's other judges, there's actually a complex check, yes. And the judge will explain the situation more specifically.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u166	Filipenko, please, microphone. Filipenko's microphone. Not Klimenko, Pilipenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, we're now starting to go back to the shameful practice that existed a year ago before the adoption of the law, the new drafting of the law, when, in fact, it was through the MPs that personal accounts with the judges were drawn up. For five months now, six of them have been gone, and I am now very sorry, to be honest, that the first deputy head of the committee has been there. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I am addressing you, and then you will have the right to a replica. In fact, you do what is not prescribed in the law. You're taking judges off the stand, and that's not legal. If there is a competent body, the Higher Qualifying Commission, is the High Council of Justice, and it is by law that they are given the right to determine whether a judge has committed a misdemeanour for which he may be released. And if you have any warning to this judge, please address it in accordance with the law. And you don't have to take the judges on display right now, they're going to be voted on by law. So I ask these judges, whom we have now postponed, to put to the vote, and we will now vote them all, as the law requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u168	Please, Karmazin's lineup, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin. I would like to point out that the most important law we have is the Constitution, and we should be guided by it. What you went through in the so-called "court reform" of unconstitutional things that conflict with article 89 of the Constitution doesn't mean it's legal. That's the first one. Second, the question is not only about being released for breaking an oath but also about violating criminal cases involving a number of judges. I don't want to call them names. Because they give Ukrainian citizenship to Chinese, others, others, and others. And this is all made up of decisions. It's not just in these areas. These things are in the Kharkiv region, these things are in other places. And national MPs are the last barrier. We are obliged to stop this today and ask for speeding up the check with the High Council of Justice. If such materials are available, they should be reported to the MPs, not considered to be fleas for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, allow me to act as a judge in connection with the speeches of the two deputies who are members of the Justice Committee. One's right and the other's right. Right Filipenko, which is the Law on the Courtship and Status of Judges, which provides for, as is done, and right Carmazin, who refers to the Constitution, that no one but the Supreme Council makes such decisions. So the decision is made only by the Supreme Council, and it will be made by it. Yes, please, Aunt Anatolyevna, you can explain your comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u171	For comments, I can explain the following. This issue of the complaint was raised during my passage by the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on June 8, when I passed it. All the members of the commission noted that the decision, no decision I had made, had been made against anyone, and no one had been dismissed. And this is a decision that has been taken before the changes to the Ukrainian Citizenship Act. And so it was unanimously decided by all the members of the commission that these were old remarks, that is, they gave me a recommendation for election on an untimely basis. My decision was uncontested, and no one was wronged. The questions raised by the honourable MP were neither Chinese nor African nor Indian — no one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to elect an untimely judge of the Connotapian District Court of Sumos District of Tetjana Anatoliyovna. Please vote. [[13:01:54]] For 262 Decision taken. Please, Zapoczna Igor Igorevich. Please, Karmazin, what a remark.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u173	Adam Ivanovich! I'm Yuri Carmazin. Adam Ivanovich, I would like us to test the complaints of those to whom we belong. As the question is that the Higher Council of Justice is the body that is considering whether there is a breach of an oath or not, and they have not carried out a test on all these three persons, I would like to hear their answer. I personally don't know any of these people, I don't know any of these judges. I haven't seen or had any dealings with them. And I don't have a mother. There is a specially authorized body. He has to check and report to the national deputies. That's what he's holding on to. He's got reasons for checking it out. He's checking. Let's hear it, let's hear it. And I don't know why we're in a hurry if there's a reason to check. Let's hear the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u174	Yuri Anatoliyovich, when the results come and the Justice Council will be ready to inform, we will listen to them and we will make decisions, now they are not ready for that kind of information. From your first speech, I realized that the observation to Zapotec was that he had made the right or wrong decision on the subject of exempt customs. You know, there were plenty and lots of questions in Lviv Customs, so it's clear. Dig in, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u175	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Obviously, when such questions arise, I also do not know these people, do I not know whether to support them or not? It was quite normal in the Supreme Council when there were certain complaints, and their every MP, including a judge's separate branch of power, gets a lot of weight, and in our Legislative Security Committee, when the unjust, the ordering, the bribes of the decisions, we have the "creatures" already there, the others. So, in my opinion, you have to listen to the thoughts of MPs so that we don't become statisticians. Or do not bring the judges here and we will not vote here, let them be appointed, and let them judge as they please or as they are told. So I think we should listen to Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin’s point.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u176	Please, Zapotacny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. George Carmazin, I would like to explain the following. In our Lviv District Administrative Court, there was, in fact, much to be done in dealing with cases involving the renewal of customs officers in office. As judge of this court, I have also considered a category of cases in the board of judges and have made decisions, I think, three or four. The decisions in question were the subject of an appeal before a court of appeal, and no direct decision of me was dismissed by the Court of Appeal. That's why I can't say anything anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u178	What was the point of the decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u179	Restoration at work of freed tax collectors and making an average wage during forced absence.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u180	Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u181	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, I can't understand our opponents where they're taking us, which Europe or the other way around. We have sent to the Venice Commission a draft electoral bill, and we have been “slaughtered” to remove, remove, burn with the knee iron the point, which does not have the right to vote for the presidency of the country unless the courts are removed from it. That is, even if the trial is not closed, Europe says that we can go to the President. And here someone wrote some slander, nothing confirmed, dumped dirt on a person, and we have to make a decision. I think it's a decision to make: confirm. And then, please, there's a procedure. If proven, we will then vote in this room, and we will record it. But today is the basis for a red light on ways to make a positive decision for these people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u182	Exchanged thoughts. Is there no other? Dear colleagues, I remind you again of the new procedure. So earlier, when a profile committee was involved in these matters, a profile committee had the right to recommend whether or not to consider. Now, the profile committee doesn't have anything to do with this, and we have the High Qualifying Commission as a reference. The Supreme Council is entitled to decide. I mean, the High Qualifying Commission recommends this judge to be elected on an open-ended basis, and you and I can decide in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u183	The Supreme Council of Justice should consider, when it considers it, it will report. We cannot postpone consideration until the Supreme Council of Justice considers it, for there is no such thing in the law anymore. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to elect an untimely judge of the Lviv District Administrative Court of Zapotnik Igorevich. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:08:06]] For 260 Decision taken. Yes, please, let's get Yuri Volodymyrovich to the microphone. Do you have any specific comments on Podolak? A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u184	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I have your attention. Right now the judges are falsifying the vote like they do every day. So you, as chairman, see that now everyone is voting for 5-7 people, and you're pretending that you can't see anything, that is, Adam Ivanovich, you're committing an official crime. That's why I have an observation for you, Adam Ivanovich, and I'm announcing it to you under the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure Act. Today you've gone through the budget, now you're also going through those judges who have the authority to investigate. So Adam Ivanovich, let's go back to the Constitution and the law, I repeat the Law on the Rules of Ukraine. And I think they have to check all the complaints first, and then give an answer, and Mr. Samsin won't deny it. But he's just got that one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u185	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyevich, for your help and qualified criticism, I accept it. But I don't see one in seven voting unless you're doing it. Yes, please, is there any more? None. Yes, please. So I didn't realize what the point was? Igor Leonovich, you don't have a complaint?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u186	I want to point out that we checked all the complaints the day of the recommendation. So the two complaints were, in fact, the Supreme Council of Justice, where they were tested and the results of the examination of the grounds for filing the release of the judge were not there. And we had two complaints from the members of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine. The Commission has come to the conclusion in a collegiate manner that the facts presented in these complaints have not been confirmed and the reasons for the involvement in the disciplinary responsibility of Podolak Yuri Volodymirovich are not available. That's why the commission gave him a recommendation to be elected on an open-ended basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u187	Thank you. Yuri Volodymyrovich, what were you accused of? Step closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u188	These complaints, which were filed against me, were considered and the reasons why there were questions of release were not to be dismissed. Other complaints were similarly considered as soon as they were reported. And the reasons, like the conclusions that they had in mind, were justified and the reasons for drawing to responsibility were likewise absent. This was checked on a qualified commission of judges in Ukraine, where it was decided to prepare for election on an open-ended basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u189	Yuri Volodymyrovich, I'm asking you a little bit different: what's the point of this?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u190	The point of what, a complaint?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u191	Yes. So what were you accused of making the wrong decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u192	Yes, they complained that they disagreed with the court’s decisions. But these decisions were taken by the court, they were accused, they were supported by higher courts, both by the appeals and by the cassation. And that's why they gained legal power, these decisions of the court that I took part in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u193	Thank you, of course. So there was a decision on the complaints of his decisions, which were confirmed by the Courts of Appeal that the decisions were correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u194	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u195	I am voting on the proposal to elect the Chief Justice of the Kyiv Economic Court of the Podolak Region, Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please vote. [[13:12:25]] For 258. Decision taken. We're looking at the draft order number 9103-5. Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u196	Select, previously elected on an open-ended basis, as judges: The Supreme Court of the Master of Ukraine, Shark Nina Volodymyrovna, Aleyev Inna Viacheslavna, Great Nadia Leonidivna, Zaporozhen Mikhail Dmitrovich, Popokova Olga Volodymyrovna; The Court of Appeal of the Viennese Region of Burdenyuk Sergey Ivanovich, Kovalski Irina Anatolyevna, Marcuk Valentina Seminowna, Sprinchuk Valery Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Grishenko Natal Mikolayevna, the Mudrec Roman Volodymyrovich, Serbia Valentin Vitaliyovich; The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Berezkin, Olen Volodymyrovna, Presnakov Angelika Anatoliyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk district of Nazarov Marina Viktorovna, Solova Raís Stepanovna By the way, Judge Nazarov Myrina Victorian has been duly informed that we are filming this issue, and I apologize for confessing. Since the application was made, she did not show up today, there were family circumstances, and there were family circumstances. She reported that she had sent a similar statement to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u197	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u198	Except Nazarov. The Court of Appeal of the Mikolai district of Kramarenko Tetjan Volodymyrna; The Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Odrinska Tetjana Volodymyrna; The Court of Appeal of the Hersonian Region of Vaitas Inna Viktorovna; the Court of Appeal of the Czernovetsk Region of Pototsky Vladimir Pilipovich; the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv district of Harechko Love of Constantine; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Andrianko Antonina Mikolayevna; Donetsk’s Court of Appeal, Kododov Olga Vasilovna, Martuchin Natal Alexandrovna, Tattenka Valery Mikolaiovich; The Lviv Economic Court of Appeal, Danko Les Semenovna; Savrija Viktor Anatoliyovich, Regional Court of Appeal; Bobrovicki District Court of Chernigiv County, Demchenko Ludmila Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, are there any comments on the candidate? None. Then I'm voting on the motion for adoption of Order No. 9103-5 on the election of judges on an indefinite basis, except for the name of Nazar's Marina Victorovna. Please vote. [[13:15:40]] For 265 The decision was taken on Nazareth. Indeed, there is her request that, in view of her family circumstances, she be unable to attend the meeting today, asking to be moved to the next meeting. That is, we postpone consideration without making decisions. She'll be in the next session, I think we'll make a positive decision. Order 9103-6.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u200	Select Jurczak Ljubomir Bogdanović to serve as Judge of the Kalu District Court of the Ivano-Frankow region.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u201	No notes? I'm voting on the order number 9103-6. Please vote. [[13:16:33]] For 267 A decision has been made. Draft Decree No. 9103-7.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u202	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Nova Nova Sergia Alexandrovich, Jury of Oleg Bogdanović, Yaschenka Mikola Anatoliyovich; Zitomir's Administrative Court of Appeal Odemchuk Eugenia Vitaliyovich; Odessa District Administrative Court Andrukhiv Vadim Vasilovich; Economic Court of the Zaporozhye Region of Miroznick Mikhail Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u203	No comments on the candidates? Then I'll put it to the vote, take the 9103-7 ruling on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[13:17:37]] For 267 Thank you. Decisions taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u205	All the decisions regarding the election of judges have been taken by you. Let us welcome the judges who have been elected on an untimely basis. [[Applause]] Consider the rulings regarding the release of judges. As reported by the Head of the Council of Justice, Koleschenko Volodymyr Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u206	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! There's a decree, a bill for a judge's release. According to article 126, part five, paragraph five, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the proposal is made to release Alexander Mikolaiovich from office as judge of the Berezan City Court of Kiev in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. The Higher Council of Justice, in accordance with the Act on the Higher Council of Justice, has considered this issue, the decision to make a submission. Alexander Mikolaiovich’s exploit today did not appear at the meeting; it is called for a second time. There is information that he has been informed in the established law. There is an appropriate report that a government telegram has been handed over. So I consider it possible to listen without his involvement, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u207	Yes, thank you. Any questions? None. I am voting on the draft Order, Order 8746-1 on the release of Judge Alexander Mikolaiovich from the post of Judge of the Berezan City Court of Kiev in connection with the violation of the oath of a judge. Please vote. [[13:19:41]] For 252 Thank you, the decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u208	Thank you. The Supreme Council of Justice proposes the release of Jaros Svetlana Volodymyrovna from the office of Judge of the Primorski District Court of Odessa, in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. This judge has long known you, her conduct has been discussed repeatedly in the walls of the Supreme Council, and the Superior Council of Justice has decided to release her. I ask you to support the proposal and submission of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u209	No questions? () [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, Undercover, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u210	Your Honor, I didn't vote on the previous ruling and I can't vote on it and I'll tell you why. I have no confidence in the High Council of Justice today, I'll explain why. The Code of Criminal Procedure prohibits the presiding judge from removing anyone except the defendant from the courtroom during the hearing. Judge Kiriev is in violation of this today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u211	Turn off the microphone. I'm asking you not to tell Kiriev, but to talk about Judge Jaroz. Is there no other? Then I put to the vote a motion for the release of Judge Jaros Svetlana Volodymyrovna from the office of Judge of the Primorski District Court of Odessa in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. [[Registration number 8746-2]] Please vote. Is it? Take down the vote. Please, Svetlana Volodymyrna, do you have a statement? Please. I'm not gonna turn on the microphone if he's not gonna talk on the subject. I respect the National MP if he speaks according to the rules. Please, Svetlana Volodymyr. Speak up, don't pay any attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u212	Dear Chairman, honourable deputies, I, Jaros Svetlana Volodymyryn, have served as Judge of the Primorski Court of Odessa for over 25 years. On June 14, 2011, the Supreme Council of Justice adopted a decision concerning me to release the judge at the suggestion of members of the High Council of Justice, Onopenek and Kudriavtsev. What was the expression of my breach of oath? Of the 15 paragraphs of the Article The Supreme Council of Justice of Ononepenko, the Supreme Council of Justice, is satisfied only with the fact that I did not file an appeal against the Court of Appeal for more than 11 months. On December 10, 2004, I reviewed the case, and on January 26, 2005, I placed it in the civil office. Why the case was not referred to, I cannot say, because today it is the civil office that deals with this issue in an appropriate manner. Second sentence, the offer of a member of the Supreme Court of Justice of Kudravtsev. I was given the approval to secure a lawsuit. The resolution was appealed to the Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeal has left the ruling unchanged, referring to the standards of civil and procedural legislation. The Supreme Council of Justice, therefore, refers in its decision to the Convention on the handing over of judicial and non-judicial documents in civil or commercial matters concerning the transfer of judicial materials. The Convention establishes exclusive jurisdiction. The States that did not sign this convention and the Republic of Yemen did not sign this convention cannot, especially since there was a representative with confidence in the trial. That's the first one. Second. It is not in keeping with the reality of the decision of the High Council of Justice that the violations committed during the proceedings have led to the blocking of the performance of contractual obligations and the sending by the Embassy of the Republic of Yemen of a note of protest to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, and the reports of the commander of the Air Force and. The defenses of the Republic of Yemen on the possibility of suspending cooperation. This is denied by itself, taking into account the notes of the protests in the case, the first note of 2007, and my approval of 2009, the second note of February 8, 2008, and my approval of January 2009. These moments can't be. I think the High Council of Justice was very biased about me. I was summoned to the High Council of Justice every two weeks, although they knew I was ill. I very much ask you, honourable deputies, to decide a just decision against me. And one more moment. Today I was summoned to the Supreme Council of Justice, knowing that my case is being considered in the Administrative Court, and I am defending my interests. It's on the 4th of October. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u213	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u214	Dear National Deputies! On this point, I would like to explain what the High Council of Justice has carefully considered all the comments to the judge's address. Indeed, where there were questions of legal evaluation, we ruled out and acknowledged that this was not the basis for making proposals. For breaking an oath. But when 11 months of a judge in charge of ensuring access to justice by a citizen, a citizen has no opportunity to challenge a decision to an appeal court, then the Court of Appeal frustrates the decision, and makes a separate decision where the harsh ones are determined. notes a gross violation by the judge, and then the case is decided entirely for a different purpose, and it was both illegal and unfair. With regard to issues related to the Republic of Yemen, I want to tell you that the decision is unique at all. I would like to say that during the discussion at the High Council of Justice we were glad that. At the time of the decision of the Primorski District Court, there was no declaration of war with a particular country. So we insist on our decision, we ask for our support, and we think it's both balanced and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u215	Thank you. Let's be clear. I am voting for Order 8746-2 on the release of Jaros Svetlana Volodymyrovna from the office of Judge of the Primorski District Court of Odessa in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Please vote. [[13:27:44]] For 242 Decision taken. Ninety-seventy-five.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u216	The Supreme Council of Justice at its meetings on 12 July, 6 September and 13 September this year, in accordance with article 126, paragraph 9, of the fifth part of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law on the judiciary and status of judges, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the dismissal of judges under general conditions and decided to make a corresponding submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In all the judges, their actual will was determined, and they voluntarily wrote their statements.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, no comments, no questions? I'm voting on Order 9095 on the release of judges in connection with the application for resignation. Please vote. [[13:28:53]] For 253 It's been decided. 9095-1 draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u218	Dismissed from the positions of judges: the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir district of Velidczuk Vasil Mironovich - in connection with the application for resignation, Kasapou Ludmila Mikhailnovna - in connection with the application for discharge at your own request; the Court of Appeal of the Hersonian Region of Delijevo Alexandro Mikolayovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Gulipil district court of Zaporozhye district of Chemolos Svetlana Pavlovna - in connection with the application for resignation; Rubižan City Court of Lugansk, Novikov Aleksandra Ivanovich - in connection with the application for resignation; and the District Court of Ternopil, Chepesuk Oresta Vasilovich, in connection with the application for resignation. Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u219	Attention. I'm voting for Order 9095-1 on the release of judges. Please vote. [[13:30:13]] For 256 Decision taken. 9095-2 Project Stands.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u220	The Supreme Council of Justice is proposing the release of Shapowalov Olga Anatoliyovna from office as judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u221	I am voting on Order 9095-2 on the release of Shapoval Olga Anatoliyovna from the post of Judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in connection with the application for resignation. Please vote. [[13:30:57]] For 249 It's been decided. Thank you. Issues related to the election and release of the judges of general jurisdiction have been considered. We are now considering the draft Order on the release of Tvacoc from office of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9188]] Reported by the Secretary of the Committee on Legal Policy, Tolstenko Volodymyr Leonidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u222	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies, was asked by the Legal Political Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to refer to the application of the Head of the Constitutional Court for the release of Takjak Pavel Mikolaiovich in connection with his resignation. It should be noted that Tkakov Paul Mikolaiovich was elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so according to the Constitution of Ukraine, our Rules, we should also decide on his resignation. In this regard, I would like to announce our decision that, in accordance with article 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 9 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act "On the Constitutional Court of Ukraine", the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is appointed for a term of nine years, and that is why the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruled that the judge of the Constitutional Court was elected to this office, in accordance with our decision, according to our decision, the Head of the Constitutional Court, in accordance with his statement, decided to invite the Supreme Council to take the Order on the release of Tkakok Paul Mikolajovich from the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court, according to his resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u223	Thank you. Any questions? Please be ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u224	Upstairs, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Your Honor, during your consideration of this matter on the committee, did you find the reason for the surrender of Judge Tkachuk Pavel Mikolaiovich, why is he resigning? If you have not found out and you have no answer, I would like to be answered by Paul Mikolaiovich himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u225	The question of the resignation of Tkajak Pavel Mikolaiovich was decided at a committee meeting in the presence of Tkakok Pavel Mikolaiovich. We have not heard any questions before this issue was resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, I'll explain. Paul Mikolaiovich faithfully and conscientiously worked on the Constitutional Court’s 9 - year sentence on our recommendation. [[Applause]] Therefore, in connection with the completion of the nine - year term of office, according to the Constitution, each judge is required to resign. So here is the question of compliance with the Constitution. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's another question. Yes, dear colleagues, then I'm voting. I told you the reason, you understand why. [[B in m in s a l in]] He doesn't have to answer because it's a constitutional norm. I am voting on the motion to release Judge Tchacouk from office of Judge of the Constitutional Court in connection with the application for resignation. [[Registration number of Decree 9188]] Please vote. [[13:35:14]] For 253 It's been decided. Dear colleagues, I reiterate that Paul Mikolaiovich was elected Judge of the Constitutional Court by our quota. Let us sincerely thank him for his work during these nine years. And allow me, in your presence, to present him with a valuable gift, the Watch of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. We're working till 2:00. We have a lot of work to do. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code and certain other legislative acts is under consideration. [[Registration number 9158]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:37:03]] For 202 Offer supported. First Deputy Finance Minister Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich will report. Prepare Lukyanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u227	Dear National Deputies! The Government has introduced a bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code and some other legislative acts. The essence of this bill is simple enough and is related to the fact that we in the Budget Code have written down rules that the Budget Act does not have the right to settle any issues related to the budgetary process with changes to other legislative acts. And there are three positions in this bill. The first position is that in connection with administrative reform, we write down in the Budget Code the rule that administrative assemblies are part of the government budget, that is the fee for administrative services, that is the general fund that is now part of the special fund. The second position relates to the settlement of the relationship with the State budget and the National Bank for 2012. And the third position is the question of paying the court's fees to the contracting authorities, it's about the structures of the DPA, the State Customs, the Ministry of Finance, which pays the court's fees, that they have to pay. Therefore, in our view, the settlement of this issue will be able to have a positive impact on the 2012 budget process and, taking into account those proposed figures in the 2012 draft budget, to ensure that these revenues are fully realistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u228	Thank you. Please, from the Lukyanov Profile Committee Vladislav Valentinovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are they working on the budget? Dear colleagues, the conclusion of the committee is to adopt a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'd like that. Unfortunately, who's on the profile committee? There's no head, no. The point is that the reporter has already told you that this is really related to the 2012 draft budget, which is worth taking into account, but I'm sure we'll get to the second reading then we'll vote in favour of the short procedure and we'll be able to accept it. Is there a need to discuss? Is it? Besides Carmazin, who insists? From factions. Then sign up, please. Two for, two against, if that's what it is. Please, Beavs, Karpuk is behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u229	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like again to draw Anatoly Ivanovich's attention to what we talked about today in discussing the main directions of our country's economic and social development, it's about compensation for the losses that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has suffered. What is it? There was a special fund. Anatoly Ivanovich, I understand that Chečetov is a prominent political figure in our country, but please listen. Anatoly Ivanovich, I am addressing you. I would like to emphasize once again that you took money from a special fund at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, you compensated only 800 million, they only needed 2 billion more money to keep it. And today the question is, either we have a 300 thousand-strong militia, or we have 100,000 of them, but we're fully compensating for the cost of keeping it, otherwise we're going to feed another police or police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u230	Please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u231	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Please pass the word to Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u232	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u233	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'm going to share a point of view with Volodymyr Karpuk and with Kseniya Ljapina, because we were now indignant about where the law was written. Yes, we call the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." So we ask, where does the law define what "administrative service" is? There's only one under the law. Ladies and gentlemen, please write down what this is, and then you will refer. Another question. You forgot, Reverend, that was two days ago when there were a thousand people here when they broke up with the Supreme Council. Today, by adopting the amendments to the Law on the Court of Justice, you are supplementing paragraph 21 of your proposal to release from court fees: the Ministry of Finance, the State Tax Service, the Customs Service, the Treasury Service, the Financial Inspectorate and their territorial authorities, the State Financial Monitoring Service. Why? You didn't write about the category of things. And now conscious of all the things that people win, you're filing appeals, you're sending them to higher courts, and you're putting these courts to work against people. And now you won't pay for it. I mean, it's an incentive to abuse people. Therefore, honourable national MPs cannot be expressly dismissed for such categories of affairs. The categories of cases should be described by which categories of affairs, where states, where the interests of the State are concerned. Because the Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that the highest interest of the state is man, his life, his health, and that is the highest value. That's why I think that this law is completely raw, except for everything else, there are other things that apply to nationals.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u234	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u235	I'm done. . Continue the existing order for 2012 to recalculate Nazbank’s return to the State budget of Ukraine. It's also a lasia that was made before. This is in each case a separate decision needs to be made. Thank you for that. We're not going to support that. We think it's a violation of citizens' rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u236	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine and some other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9158]] Please vote. [[13:44:54]] For 236 A decision has been made. And since it has a direct bearing on the 2012 budget process, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the deadline for preparation for second reading. Please be supportive. [[13:45:24]] For 249 Decision taken. For the next plenary week, please prepare for your second reading. We are considering the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Reforming the System of Authorities of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine and Implementing European Standards". [[Registration number 9120]] Can we vote? Can we? I then put to the vote the Order on Parliamentary Hearings on "Reforming the Internal Affairs System of the Ministry of Ukraine and Implementing European Standards" in order to hold these parliamentary hearings on October 5th. [[Bill No. 9120]] Please vote. [[13:46:22]] For 246 Thank you. Decision accepted. We're looking at this: the draft decree on the 25th anniversary of the establishment of the State Institute of Radiation Medicine of the National Academy of Medical Sciences. [[Registration number 8761]] We can vote. I'm voting on the decree to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the establishment of the National Institute of Radiological Medicine of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8761]] The author of the bill is Kamchatny. Please vote. [[13:47:16]] For 256 Thank you. Decision accepted. Let's go to chapter two. We are considering the draft Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 8570]] Report again. [[second reading]] Reported the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations of Zarubinstki Oleg Aleksandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u237	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the Committee for a second reading, a table of the new edition of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In general, 131 amendments and proposals by Ukraine’s next national deputies have been made to the bill. Allow me without names, my father's. MP Carmazin is 36 amendments, 9 of which are 17 rejected, 6 counted editorially, 4 counted partially. MP Petěvka - 6 amendments, 2 of them rejected, 3 counted partially, 1 counted editorially. Deputy Shishkina, 10 amendments, 6 of them counted, 4 rejected. MP Gritzak is 35 amendments, of which 2 are counted, 12 are rejected, 7 are partially counted, and 14 are edited. MP Klukkowski is 13 amendments, 2 are counted, 9 is rejected, 2 are edited. Rubinian is 5 amendments, 4 are included, and 1 is edited. And Deputy Gnatkovic is 26 amendments, 26 of which are counted. Thus, honorary colleagues, 47 amendments included, 46 amendments rejected, 14 counted partially, 24 counted editorially. I would like to draw attention to the fact that a working group of representatives of the Committee, the Ministry of Justice, the Chief Legal Authority, the Administration of the State Border Service and the State Migration Service of Ukraine were working on the drafting of the bill on the second issue. During the committee's consideration of the amendments, representatives of the ministries and departments were present, as well as the amendment authors present — the national deputies of Ukraine: Shishkina, Gretzak and others. And just one observation: without making all the arguments in favour of adopting this bill to become a law, I want to say that it is of direct importance and it should play an almost crucial role in achieving two things – to continue in the practical river of the visa-free dialogue with the European Union on the visa-free border crossing of Ukrainian citizens and to sign Ukraine's association with the European Union. Once again, this bill is just imperative for these two policies to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u238	Thank you, Oleg Alexanderovich. I'm talking to colleagues whose corrections aren't taken into account, which one of you insists? None. Who insists on amendments that are considered, but they do not agree with them? Snack? Please, what's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u239	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. There was quite a heated discussion at the committee meeting. And you know, the members of the committee convinced me that not all my amendments were in line with the spirit of this law, and I agreed. And looking at the committee's careful work, I think that the titanium work that they were doing and the flaws that were in the first reading, they were extremely serious. I believe that this bill needs to be supported. I'm taking my amendments, the ones they didn't accept, off.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u240	Yes, thank you. Other national MPs don't insist? Now. Before the vote, I have one question. Oleg Aleksandrovich, could we, in order to take into account the legal authorities' observations, proceed in such a way that, if we adopt the law now, we can give a mandate to the Chief Legal Authority in final preparation for the signature to carry out technical and legal editing?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u241	That would be good, Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. Even more so, we kept in contact with the Chief Legal Authority. Moreover, many of the amendments that have been taken into account editorially and in part have been taken into account in the thinking of the General Legal Authority. So I think if it's still going to work, it's going to be an even more optimal option. And also, Adam Ivanovich, if you allow, from a voice in part, this is for the transcript, part of the eighth article 55, after the words "not applied to foreigners and stateless persons" to add the words "not reaching 18 years of age," thus leaving this part in the first reading edition. This amendment, what I'm now introducing, is in agreement with all the interested parties and it will improve the bill. If I may, I'd like to take that into account. I told the stenographer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u242	Let's vote on this proposal. I'm voting on the rapporteur's proposal, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u243	Please support, this is the right offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u244	Leave the editor for the first read. [[13:53:10]] For 249 Supported. Yes, then I put it, my dear colleagues, given that, once again, I stress that this is really one of the main legislative acts that the Council of Europe and the European Union require us to take a decision on the visa-free regime. And given that we are giving the mandate to the Chief Legal Authority to carry out technical and legal editing in preparation for the Head's signature, and that will be directed to the President's signature, I am voting on the adoption of the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Nationality. [[in a new edition]] [[Registration number 8570]] Please vote. [[13:54:09]] For 262 Thank you. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u245	Let's call it a break. But, dear colleagues, we have the next draft of the Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act to shorten the deadline for filing documentation with the land administration. [[second reading]] But this is a violation of article 116 of the Rules, so I'm asking the profile committee to bring it in line, with violation of 116, we're not going to consider. Sergei Mikolaiovich, look. This is only about making changes to the 28th article of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act. There are other articles that we cannot change. If you agree with that, we can take it now. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, please. It's from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u246	Dear Adam Ivanovich, your esteemed colleagues cannot otherwise, we must agree and abide by the Rules. The purpose of the bill was to set a deadline for the production of technical documentation on land. Today, when documents are submitted, this documentation can be produced for 6, 8, 10 months. The bill proposes setting a limit of 6 months. For 6 months the documentation should be produced, which is the essence of the changes proposed in the 28th article of the Land Administration Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-22-m0.u247	Then, Sergey Mikolayovich, if you don't mind, in order to be clean, let's take it in the first reading. Right? Then we won't hurt anything. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act to shorten the deadline for the first-reading of the country's documentation. [[Registration number 8387]] The bill's author is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. Vote. [[13:56:46]] For 243 Thank you. The law was adopted in the first reading. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Break till 4:00. Thank you.
