ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:41]] There were 364 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, today the birthday of our colleague Litvinov Vladimir Grigorovovich, let us welcome him and wish him health and success in life. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules and according to a report signed by the Ukrainian People’s Deputy Sergey Greenewecko, I am informing you of the creation of 17 national deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Interfractional Union for Cooperation with African, Asian, Latin American and their Economic Unions. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 19 to 22 April 2011. Six plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, 119 questions of the agenda were discussed, and the results of their consideration were adopted: 33 laws and 18 regulations, 15 bills adopted on the basis, one bill sent to the Committee for Re-reading, 10 bills returned to the subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, 5 bills returned to the Committee for Complementation and the next submission for re-reading, 25 bills and 4 draft regulations rejected, 106 parliamentary requests announced. Ladies and gentlemen, the Conciliation Council has just concluded its meeting to agree on the schedule of meetings for this plenary week. At the suggestion of factions or committee heads, a number of bills have been removed from the plenary week, and a number of bills have been tabled. So some changes will be made in the materials that are given to you. At the same time, honourable national deputies made several suggestions during the Conciliation Council meeting on Friday, which we have in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, namely, to hear the Minister of Interior Anatoly Mogilov about the events of 9 May in Lviv during "the hour of questions", in the format of "the hour of questions to the Government". Second offer. Listen to Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov of Ukraine about social processes and problems in Ukraine. This proposal came from the faction "BOUT" – "Fatherland." First offer from the faction of the Party of the Regions. And the third proposal from the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense": to move away from the Rules and to listen to the Attorney-General and the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights in connection with the situation with Yuri Anatoliovich Lucenko. At the same time, on the way out. I'm sorry, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. At the same time, in view of the fact that "the hour of questions" refers to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers, I have proposed that the factions and other deputies who will support this issue should make a draft decision and put it to the vote. In the event of a decision being made, regardless of the "hour of questions to the government" this question will be considered. At the same time, respected colleagues, since we received two suggestions and did not find a common solution. So I'd like to ask the factions to consult with each other again now, and after speaking to the national MPs, I'm going to put in order a proposal on how we're going to conduct an hour of questions to the government. And by the decision of the Supreme Council, we will determine. Is there no objection? Then I would like to ask the people's deputies, because we are working on Wednesday, Wednesday, to sign up for the performance. People's deputies, please sign up for the speech. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Deputy Kunchenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be the coat of arms. Please, who's speaking from you? For two, huh? So, respectable colleagues, let's get together, six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Throughout mankind’s history, there have been 15,000 wars, and only 168 years have gone by without war. In the 20th century, last century, there was a terrible war in our history, in the history of our planet. And no matter what the consequences are today, the loss, the Second World War, and for us the Great Homeland, its main achievement, its main goal was to take away future generations from the "corrosive" slavery. And the whole world is clear about the role played by the Great Motherland in World War II, the role played by our Ukrainian people in the friendly family of the peoples of the Soviet Union. The war swept through Ukraine twice. Two thirds of our industries, three quarters of our villages, our cities, our historical monuments, were destroyed. And it's at the cost of the incredible efforts of our soldiers, our guerrillas, our undergrounds, who walked. Yes, ours who went to death consciously. And it's not far from here, 200 thousand troops of 115 nationalities have died at the Bukrin Square. Ladies and gentlemen, on these festival days, we bow our heads in memory of those who have not returned. We are grateful to our dear veterans. We haven't done everything for them that they deserve. But the president and the government have found it possible, under difficult conditions, to pay more than 500 million dollars for single aid. By the end of this year, this aid will be increased by 40 percent, by 20 to 25 percent, for the disabled. We tend to be grateful to the children of war who were deprived of holy life — children who were in a state of investigation who, instead of textbooks and toys, took up shovels and scraps and rebuilt this state in hunger. They rebuilt it, and today, even though they're in their mid-70s, they're working for the future of our nation. I voted in favour of this law, but I see the philosophy of the law not only in giving an extra pension, but in that this is exactly the future of our state. For in this law all are equal: both the children of the Red Army commander and the children of those who were on the other side, but they are in the same state that must be united. During the festival, our country was liberated from the battle flags of the compound and parts that set our country free during the demonstration. And I saw holy to myself, the battle flag of the 93rd Kharkiv Motorbike Fourtimes Ordinal Division, which I commanded 20 years ago. I have touched this flag for the third time in my life, but not all veterans have the opportunity to touch their native blood-enhanced flag because they are in Ukraine, they are in Belarus, in the Far East, and elsewhere - separates all flags, battle flags of compounds and parts of the Great Motherland, storm flag 150 of the Idrek Diva. Dear colleagues, we should not and cannot, and we will never deprive all the soldiers of the Great Motherland of their sacred right to be able to touch the sanctuary. Everybody's having a party. Glory to the victors! Glory to the only Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u3	The coat of arms is passed on to Vadim Koleschenk, a faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be Caplienne instead of Radovts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u4	The Party of the Regions faction, Vadim Koleschenko. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, dear fellow citizens! On 9 May, thousands of demonstrations of gloating people captured all the cities of our country. In the town of the hero Sevastopol, as always, tens of thousands of people have taken up their seats at the rostrum since 8 a.m. to welcome our veterans who have saved the world from the brown plague. And it was only in Lviv that the villains, the renegade, the Herodians, threw away stories that could raise their hands on veterans, to commemorate our Great Homeland War, which brought the entire people of Ukraine together. We very clearly understand and share Western Ukraine, a hardworking Ukraine, where most people respect the Great Homeland War and our State symbols. And to the fascist young men who have invaded our shrines. The faction of the Party of the Regions came to the BIS, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of the Interior, demanding the identification, punishment, prosecution of instigators, organizers and assistants. And these helpers are also here in the Supreme Council building. These are the people who are opposed to our State, against stability and against the power of our Ukraine. And today I call on our community to draw attention to the fact that the world's human rights, anti-fascist organizations have already responded to this barbaric, fascist action in Lviv yesterday. We can be in international isolation today. In international isolation. Because such departures are unacceptable in a normal, civilized State. These savages have put themselves outside the law, outside society, outside the State. And I demand that the person of the veteran organizations, at the request of the citizens of the town of Sevastopol, banning the fascist organization Freedom, bring to justice the direct criminal responsibility of the Nazi accomplices, who are few in what they have attacked veterans, do little of what they have done in the open and demonstrative assaults. They attacked militia personnel. In doing so, they experimented on further mass disturbances. It is time to call upon those helpers of fascism, these colobarans, these young minions, who have only been able to do one thing — to attack those who have come to give tribute to those who are already in the earth, those who cannot answer them. These must have been the descendants of those lowlanders who shot at the backs of those who are lying in the ground today! I'm sure our country will survive this filth! We will unite, protect not only our Ukraine, but also the great signs of our freedom, the great signs of victory over the "Cortical Plague". The Coronation Plague in Ukraine won't work!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u5	Caplienne, MP's Reform for the Future. Alexander Steshenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! Unfortunately, the celebration of Victory Day in Lviv was not without provocations and clashes, as the city authorities warned, and the public was about to. In doing so, the analysis of the events of May 9 shows that all parties — both the Freedom Party and the Family Party, the Russian Unity, and so on — were prepared for this development. Which, contrary to the court's decision to ban any assembly, rallying and marching on May 9, made a move with the red flag open. Undoubtedly, the message of success of their planned actions on the official sites of these political forces confirms the purposeful provocative actions of these political forces. Yes, on May 9th, the Party's Family website published information on the events in Lviv entitled "Despite the resistance of thousands of nationalists in Lviv, big flags of victory were spread." On May 9, 1536, information was also published on the Web site of the All-Ukrainian Movement, entitled "Knowledge of the City of Leva". Shame on you, good fellows! Ukraine needs protection, not division. That's why they provoked a series of incidents with representatives of the "Freedom" law-enforcement parties, which apparently also prepared for this kind of development, because they were organized, some of them had masks on their faces, respirators, smoke checkers, and so on. As a result, there was a conflict not only with representatives of the noted political forces but also with members of the police. There was an incident involving representatives of the Russian Consulate, where the crown was torn from their hands and trampled. Some veterans and journalists were injured. So the celebration of Lviv Victory Day, which, according to a public opinion poll, is a celebration of virtually all Ukrainians, has been cynically burned, and the Day of Victory, which the Ukrainian people have won for us, has been used by these political forces to deepen its division. Today it is clear that the use of the Red Flag was the reason and reason for the opposition in Lviv. In order to avoid similar incidents in the future, the deputy faction of Reforms for the Future calls on the President of Ukraine not to sign the Act on Amendments to the Law on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great National War on the Order of Official Use of the Flag of Victory. [[B in m in s a l in]] The deputy faction demands that on the day of the government and on Friday the Minister of the Ministry of State of Mogilov be heard and that the officials who allowed the above provocation be punished. We need to put a dot on the experiments and the cheap provocations with Ukraine because we have Ukraine alone. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u7	Alexander Steshenko is referring to Andrew Shevchenk, the "BUT" faction. Next is Strtovich instead of Marouschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u8	Colleagues, I'm going to talk about Victory Day with smoke checkers, with my legs shot, with my grandfathers who were putting on each other for a plate of military porridge in Kiev, and with the children of the war, which they called "circumcised on television." This Victory Day leaves three very simple conclusions. Conclusion number one. We have received the most disgraceful Day of Victory in Ukrainian history. What we saw on May 9 could not have happened in Ukraine in either Soviet Ukraine or Ukraine in all previous years. Conclusion number two. The reason for what happened on May 9 was because one faction, one party, wanted to return to the Soviet Union for at least one day, and other factions wanted to make political points. You earned it? President Janukovic was more cunning and did not want to take responsibility for this law, this responsibility rests with the parliamentary majority who voted in favour of this law. Conclusion No. 3. President Janukovic is responsible for everything that was 9 May, with all the police, BSS, government administrations on that day. Or what else is needed to understand that half of Ukraine is not worth driving a dozen buses with Russian provokers and making them a green street? What was lacking — power, authority, conscience, intelligence, or perhaps someone simply wanted to play the script? In 2004, the same people wrote scenarios for the division of Ukraine into three varieties. It didn't work. Now they're trying to separate Galicina. It won't work. But this authority that covers the provocative and is the main provoker in this situation, including the provokers in this session room. You know, sociology has shown that we don't have any other holiday that would unite the country as much. And the simple question is, "What day do you think is a great holiday?“No other day in the year received such high marks, no May 1, which is nice to many people, no March 8, no November 7, no Constitution Day, the Victory Day brought the whole country together. What have you achieved that we have lost the celebration that has so far united the country? What should we do next? First. Legal consequences. We support that in this Supreme Council, the Minister of the Interior will speak in this Hall, giving a clear explanation of what has happened. If these explanations are too small, he should resign, just as the head of the Lviv district government resigned. The other one. About political responsibility. I think this situation deserves honest talk, an apology, and people have already come to their conclusions. And finally about the laws. Let's at least take a moratorium on such war laws in this room. Let us better adopt laws from which our veterans will receive higher pensions and pay lower municipal tariffs. And the last. There was an MP with a tape, and he was talking about people who were shooting at the back. So in the course of the war, we know who shot in the back -- the NKVD fence, and today their ideal offspring are shooting at the back of Ukrainian independence. This is unacceptable! Victory Day should be a day of reconciliation, not the day of the new civil war.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u9	Vladimir Stretović, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vassil Shpak will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u10	Dear Sir, dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen! Just 17 years ago, on May 11, 1994, I first crossed the threshold of this hall. He came here hoping to make Ukraine a prosperous and prosperous democratic state after three years of mistrust that we had, and the next election that brought me here. But now 20 years of Ukrainian independence, and Ukraine is moving away from the dream I had in my childhood. Why did this happen? An example. More recently. This is May 9, Lviv. Someone is crying here today from this rostrum like a crocodile that we will remain in international isolation. You're the one who provoked the red flag! Did you not know that part of Ukraine did not accept it? Why share it? Ukraine for two halves? Was that not clear? Since there was no law, the President didn't sign! However, the order of the eastern neighbor is to be executed and the provocation is to be done. When opposition to a rally in Kiev, their tires are pierced, buses are not released without equipment, and they come to Lviv peacefully throughout Ukraine and organize this Sabbath! This is an ideological picture to show: Look at the Lviv; see what you have to do with it. Shame, gentlemen of the majority! Shame! This situation is provoked by your hands, and today we see how. about what happened in Lviv. The reason here! The reason is in this upper room. And we're called here to reconcile people, not share them. We're representatives, every representative of the people in our own personality, not the buttonheads they've ordered. You don't understand that the country is going to break! Don't you understand that we're not going there that civil war is going on?Oh, my God! Shewchenko warns me, "It's not the same for me, it's the evils who will rob her, it's the thieves who will wake up in the fire!" Shevchenko's fire can see, can't you see? I can't help but touch the subject that's knocking on our door. This is the market of the earth. Today, the President will hold a meeting and, at the decision of American advisors, will force us to vote, sell agricultural land. It would be the biggest sin, the biggest crime that most people would take if they voted or every deputy if they confirmed it. And the last. Today, our faction urges us to listen to the Attorney General and Human Rights Commissioner on Friday and to hear about the health of our colleague Yuri Lucenka. He's not socially dangerous, he's locked up in prison to read a criminal case. He has already come to know her, but apparently revenge or some other language compels the authority of a well - known Ukrainian politician to hold the bouquets. We ask here, on this rostrum, on Friday, that the Attorney General and the Ombudsman come and say what they're holding Yuri Lucenka for, replacing him with a non-refoulement agreement so he can choose normal, human conditions. I thank you for giving me the opportunity. He said it hurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u11	Basil Shpak, faction of the People's Party. Lems will be next. Andrew Pavlovsky, right? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to move from political issues to more pressing problems today. Dear National MPs, which began in the 1990s, agrarian reforms in two decades did not produce the desired results, on the contrary, many of them have created a mass of new problems that have caused the decline of rural areas, reduced jobs and led to a sharp rise in food prices. Who expected the Greek, millet, meat, sugar of their own production to be scarce in Ukraine today? Could it be that at the purchase price for milk, 3.4 bracelets -- in supermarkets, 10 bracelets -- the price of solid cheese is equal to 80 or 90 bracelets per kilogram? The economic mechanisms developed at the beginning of the reform are outdated. They practically destroyed the animal industry. The head of the cattle, the pigs, fell sharply under the sugar beet. On the contrary, the seeds of raps and sunflowers have increased rapidly, and in 20 years the earth has been devastated. The question of creating wholesale markets that are so insistent is left to the point of insistence, power that could be squeezed out of the agrarian market by a variety of speculators and businesses. And then the agricultural producer has to turn in "furshets" for the implementation of agricultural products at reduced prices with a 60-day pay-as-you-go. Where, then, is his income guaranteed? Where the decline in retail food prices continues to increase, even though the government is making a great deal of effort to make things right, to make things right. Another painful problem is the earth. What is happening to agricultural land has already crossed all bounds. In a shadow order, trade in land without the knowledge of landowners is taking place because of so - called corporate rights transfers. The earth must definitely be a commodity, we support it, but with warnings: the market for the earth must be built under the control of the state, as it is throughout the world. It's a necessary and legislative base to rule out all earth manipulation. The real cost of the land is needed, not appreciating our countries in about a thousand, and a half thousand dollars, but assessing, as is the land in Germany, in the Czech Republic, in other countries, at least 45,000 dollars per hectare. So with the situation that we think today, we need to stop the shadow technology of the transfer of corporate land lease rights without the consent of landowners, we need to put in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u13	All right, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u14	Earth. Dear colleagues, the most valuable thing for Ukraine is land, and only rational use and proper organization of agricultural production.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u15	Thank you. Andrey Pavlovski, faction “BUT – “Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u16	Andry Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko – “The Fatherland”. Dear fellow countrymen, members of the various levels of the day are faced with the same question asked by ordinary people at receptions, especially older people, pensioners, war veterans: well, when will the raging price rise stop for all it takes? For food products, for tariffs to rise so violently, when pensioners give two thirds of their pensions to utilities, there is no money left to eat? There is no answer from Janukovich’s present - day authority to these questions. At the same time, the government grossly violates the Pay for Work Act, manipulating the Single Tariff Network. As a result, each budgeter lacks more than 300 dollars, and qualified workers, teachers, doctors are not paid 700, or 800 dollars. As an example. The teacher of the upper category now receives 1,325 — the basic salary — on Azarov’s salary. And under the Act on Paying for Work, you have to get 2035 dollars. The government of Azaro is stealing 710 bracelets from the teacher. Teachers, know you're being robbed. The surgeon in the upper category does not get 811 bracelets. Docent is more than a thousand dollars. And that's not in the power. She continues to rob working pensioners. On the basis of the pension, the average wage in 2007 is 1,198. Although it should be no less than the average wage of the previous year, according to the legislation in force. So in 2010, it was 22,239 dollars. Thus, the authorities take substantial sums from each pensioner. Because the revaluation base is reduced by 1,041 bracelets. But that's not something that's in control. So far, there has been no reprisal of disgraceful, humane law 7562, which essentially restricts or eliminates social benefits and pays out 16 categories of our citizens, beginning with Chernobyl, Afghans, militias, doctors, teachers, and ending, think, war veterans and war invalids, children of war. The government pays them one-off aid, by the way, by 9 May, a few times less than Timoshenko’s government had planned. That's your help. Instead of setting up provocations, they took care of the real life of the veterans, who had little left, and improved the welfare rather than create provocation here, to break our Ukraine apart. No one will let you do that!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u17	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions. Yuri Baldirev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Since the evening of May 9, when I've seen all these unpleasant events on TV in Lviv, I've been thinking about it all the time, and what if I had won the Fascist Germany? Would there be an independent Ukraine on the map of the world today? I think the answer is obvious: of course not. And the national legend that we are creating today and in which someone is trying to make heroes and creators of our country such as Bandera, Shuhević and even Grushewski. Do these people think whether such a legend fits the facts or not? And it's because the legend you've created doesn't fit the facts that we're facing with the events that were witnessed on May 9, when young people of the 16th, 18th, 20th years went out to tear down the georgean ribbons, trample red flags. The red flag was a symbol, it was a symbol of the country that defeated Fascism. I do not love Stalin, many of my closest relatives have been repressed, and the Stalin regime has killed such brilliant poets as Nikolai Gumilev, Osip Mandelstam, has held hundreds and hundreds of the best minds of our country. But the story can't be copied, it doesn't have a compatible slope, it was the way it was. Hitler’s Fascism was defeated by a Soviet soldier. Soviet soldiers of all nationalities: Kirghiz, Estonian, Ukrainian, Russian, Belarusian, Georgian, Ossetian, all. German fascism did not defeat UN-OPA, German fascism did not defeat those people you try to make heroes. They're not heroes, they're not the creators of an independent Ukraine. The creators of an independent Ukraine are Soviet soldiers of all nationality who are better off in the fields of the Great Homeland War and thus provide bloody dictator Stalin with the opportunity to draw a new map of Europe, which makes your areas, your native areas, fall into Ukraine, as was the case. Or you offer young people the right life and concept, and then they respect war veterans rather than shout that Bandera and Shuhević are Ukrainian heroes, and then there is no conflict in society. Or you, first of all, are doing what you do so far and you're ruining society. Think about it. I'm talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u19	Thank you. Gregory Kaletnik. Vladislav Lukyanov, please make the final statement. Take it easy, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u20	Dear veterans of the Great Homeland War, I bow my head to your feat, I want to apologize for those underages, for those under-humans who waged a bloodbath in Lviv. To be honest, we ask forgiveness and, as power, we must take more stringent measures to stop such provocations. I will no longer comment on the events in Lviv, I will talk about the Great Homeland War. On those days, I met hundreds of veterans in different parts of our country, I met at Donbass, I met in Zugres, I met in Hartzska, I met in Kiev, and I saw people everywhere with one concern about the fate of the family, about the fate of the country. They said the same thing: We gave our lives so that there would be a clear, peaceful heaven over Ukraine. And I think that it must unite all Ukrainians, all Ukrainian citizens, those who share one view do not share, but the memory and glory of the feat cannot be overemphasized. The price of victory cannot be forgotten – 27 million citizens then gave their lives for this Great Victory. And that price can't be compared to any other price. There have been other heroic pages in the history of Ukraine, and we respect these heroes. But the main celebration, the victory of the Ukrainian people, is the victory in the Great Homeland War. I think everyone understands that. If there are a handful of apostates, a handful of fascists who do not understand and recognize the outcome of the Nuremberg process, the outcome of the Great Homeland War, the outcome of the Second World War, I think both power and the entire world community will give them their place. I have no doubt about that. And in front of the veterans again, I want to bow my head and make sure that everything that depends on us, everything that depends on me personally, is done and done by our team. And thank you for your great feat. The feat of your immortal and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u21	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the factions of the factions have been completed. I apologize, the Ukrainian national deputies. The main theme of the talk was the events that took place on May 9 in the city of Lviv. I understand that emotions and mutual accusations now prevail. I would ask the distinguished national MPs on every side to abstain from non-parliamentary statements and branding each other and accusing each other because the energy of words will not replace the problem itself. I think there's just been a couple release, and we need to have a serious conversation about that. It seems to me that they were going to this conflict, and they needed a reason, a reason to find it, and they came into conflict, and they were aware of what they were doing. We need reasonable assessments and responsible decisions, especially for the future. Dear colleagues, I'll say the main thing, my opinion. I think so. That we need additional immunizations, including politicians, to increase immunity against Nazism and against Stalinism. I think very few talk about the village of Koryukowka in the Chernigiv region, where over 7,000 people were shot in two days. It's the biggest bloody action in all of World War II! And we're trying to like each other, or on the other hand, it's a totally unacceptable position and policy for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I'm also proposing to our committees: you'd better prepare a draft resolution, just in 2013, the anniversary of those events will be filled in, I mean, the Coryukou region of Chernigiv. And then you have to force, I think you're going to drive those who nostalgic shows up for Nazism to watch and listen to the testimony of the witnesses. Just as it is necessary to drive shadows where innocent people have been shot at in a mass manner, and we must make appropriate responsible conclusions if we are representatives of the people. At the same time, there was a proposal, honourable colleagues, to hear information on this matter from the Minister of Internal Affairs during the "hour of questions to the Government." The second proposal was to create a temporary commission of inquiry, and on Friday, during the "hour of questions to the government", to hear information from the Cabinet of Ministers, namely the Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the social sphere. So now I'm going to put these motions in order to vote. I would like to ask the leaders or the factions for one minute to express their attitude toward this proposal. Please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense," what is the point of this?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u22	Give Martinenko a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u23	Alexander Martinenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u24	I'm sorry, I'm confused. Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u25	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the position of our faction remains unchanged, just as it was on the Conciliation Council. We draw attention to the situation surrounding Yuri Lucenka. We demand and ask our colleagues that we invite the Office of the Attorney General to hear what is actually going on today with Lucenko Yuri. We've heard different positions, they contradict each other. We read terrible things about his health, and who are we barbarians or are we humans? What's really going on? Of the accusations we see from the media to Lucenk, is he socially dangerous? What are we talking about today? What kind of games are we playing? We don't have and there's not going to be any proposal for a government day, except for the proposal I made. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u26	Please, from the faction "BUT" -- "Fatherland" by Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u27	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we fully support our colleague Mikli Martinenko's offer to listen in plenary to the representation of the Attorney General's Office and the Ombudsman for the arrest and illegal detention of our colleague Yuri Lucenka. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and we remain in the same position: that if we go beyond the law we have no right and "the hour of questions to the government" remains, we insist that we listen comprehensively in this room to the question of the social situation in the country, especially what relates to galloping prices for everything and everything. People can't stand what happens to utility bills, food prices, fuel prices, and so on. We've already made a few decisions in this room, we don't see any results. This cannot be answered by one of the ministers, which may answer these questions by the head of government. We suggest that we make such decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u28	Yes, please, the faction of the People's Party, who will it be? Yes, Alexander Ephraim. Then a group called Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u29	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I don't see any precedent here or anything. And what he's trying to tell us right now is just getting away from the main topic. We have indeed had a very serious conflict in Lviv and we cannot ignore this issue. Therefore, our faction insists that we hear the Minister of the Interior on Friday on the causes of this conflict and, more importantly, we insist that the perpetrators be brought to justice. With regard to other issues that they have raised, the question of Lucenco is the order in the hall and, please, those who wish, vote in favour of the order. And we don't have to settle any canat drags here, because one question is not about the second question. On Friday, we listen to government representatives, and the Attorney-General and Karpachov do not belong to the Government, and this is determined by a separate ruling under the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u30	From the Communist faction, Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u31	The Company's faction suggests that we listen to the Minister of Internal Affairs, but in order for the Minister's report to have any effect, we in the Supreme Council, in my opinion, must first adopt a law banning the propaganda of Nazism and take the strictest measures against all fighters without excluding extremist formations and ban these organizations. Secondly, ask UEFA to exclude Lviv from the number of cities where the 2012 games will go and move either to Dnipropetrovsk or to Odessa. Thirdly, in the 2012 budget, reduce district grants for the amount not for the purpose but for the additional pensions of UN-OPA troops. At the same time, Soviet soldiers are being humiliated by local nationalist banks. And another suggestion for those who are having some discussions today. I'd like to see one of your UPA soldiers who stormed Berlin with a yellow and blue flag. Then you have the right to speak at all about the flag. Today, please sit and be quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u32	Finish up. Do you have everyone? That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u33	I'd like to say again, Vladimir Mikhailovich. That the red flag was on the Reichstag, not the blue and yellow flag they're trying to destroy today's history of our Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u34	Thank you, thank you. Dear National Deputies! Oleg Zarubinsky and then Caplienne. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. The discussion showed that the problem is not practical but ideological. And unfortunately, it seems that the tragedy, the catastrophe of World War II, the Great Homeland War, today is simply trying to have basic political bonuses. Clearly, there were people, and most of them, by the way, who fought under the red flag. There were those who, under certain circumstances, were in the Waffen-SS Division, Galicina and the Nakhtigal Battalion. There were those who fought Stalinism, against Fascism. And this generation, it's going to go away, it's going to go away naturally. And I don't think politicians have to stimulate contradictions, conflicts among the representatives of this generation. And I think any action in this regard that leads to conflict is provocative. And that's why we really need to listen to the Minister of Internal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u36	National Deputy Caplienne, please. The Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u37	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We, having our personal position as expressed in the political rostrum, essentially call upon everyone to support the thesis that on Friday, Mr. Mohilov, the Minister of the Interior, at the “hour of questions to the Government”, should report on the situation that took place in Lviv. Short and clear. No temporary investigators, special commissions, or other committees should be called. Because it's going to last forever. We need to understand the situation in Lviv right now. And the second question. Today in Ukraine, as in any democratic state, there is law and law alone for all. And the police, in our opinion, should not take any side of any political power. Unfortunately, we saw this on TV and in the media, it happened in Lviv. I think we'll hear an assessment on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u38	Dear people's deputies, we exchanged thoughts. So there were two proposals for an hour of questions to the government. The first is to listen to information from the Minister of Internal Affairs. Before that, invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide written information. Getting acquainted with this written information by Friday’s National Deputies that they already have a vision to present to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and that we should have a dialogue so that we can have a conversation in the Supreme Council. The second proposal is to listen to the Prime Minister of Ukraine during the "hour of questioning" about the social situation. And the third proposal is to adopt a draft regulation on hearing information from the Attorney General's Office and the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights in connection with the events around Yuri Lucenka. So I'm going to put to the vote the first sentence that, during the "hour of questions to the government," the Supreme Council of Ukraine had the opportunity to ask the Minister of Internal Affairs, Anatoly Mogilov. [[Since we have not come to an understanding with you, the Supreme Council of Ukraine must be determined]] Please vote. [[10:51:23]] For 240 Decision taken. So the proposal for Friday, for information from the Prime Minister of Ukraine, will be discussed at the Conciliation Council next Monday. That is, this Friday the Supreme Council of Ukraine will communicate with the minister of the interior. The factions, please. Region Party – 171, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, communists – 24, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, "The People's Party – 20, "non-factional" – 4. Honorary colleagues, the second proposal to adopt the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on hearing information from the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, regarding the situation in connection with the detention of former interior minister Yuri Lucenka. Now, if you'll excuse me, Your Honor, I'm going to put the draft ruling to the vote in order of the day. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports this proposal, then we will make a final decision with you tomorrow. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote as we agreed, I have a draft prepared, it's not registered, and we've arranged for the Conciliation Council to put it up, so to speak, by the voice of John Kirilenko and Mikoli Martinenko. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Hearing the Information of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, on the situation that has arisen in connection with the custody of former Interior Minister Yuri Lucenka. Please determine by vote. [[10:53:21]] For 134 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask that the factions' leaders have yet to meet with each other to discuss this issue if there is such an insistence. The factions, please. One moment, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 72, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 49, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 9, People's Party – 0, non-factional – 4. In accordance with the requirement of two factions, and this is in line with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a 30 - minute recess is announced. And there's a proposal for the initiators to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. I ask the faction leaders to gather in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Break until 11 o'clock, 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we will continue our work. At the request of two factions: the Faction "BUT" – "Fathership", "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" held a meeting of the Conciliation Council. The issue involved a known problem regarding the provision of information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the Attorney General's Office on the conditions of detention at the expense of former Interior Minister Yuri Lucenka. In the process of communication, we agreed, in this way, that I will consult with each individual faction and others during today, so that we can see what prospects we have for making the right decision. Mikola Martinenko. Well, one and a half minutes, please. It's a deal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u40	The Honorable Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, was held by the Conciliation Council. On the Conciliation Council, I repeated the position of our faction. We are in favour of inviting the Attorney General, the Human Rights Commissioner, to the situation surrounding Yuri Lucenka. It's a very simple situation. From our point of view, the precautionary action taken by Yuri Lucenka is not even consistent with those charges that have not yet been tried, by the way, in court. He shouldn't be behind bars for five months. Dear colleagues, do you know that those who beat the fishermen, they're on a non-refoulement contract, they don't sit behind bars? That's a comparison with the evaluation of how the prosecutor's office is asking a question. As a result, we conclude that these are political persecutions. They are now at the European Court of Justice on the subject of Yuri Lucenka. Perhaps making a decision that he would qualify as a torturer. How will we be treated in the world? We are with you today in this room, distinguished representatives of the majority, talking a lot about morality, about the moral attitude towards the past. What right do we have to speak about the moral attitude toward the past, if we today are morally concerned with our society, with the events that are taking place: both political and not political. So our position will be absolutely clear, and by no means will we deviate from it, we will require a review of the matter. Another question. You know where Yuri Lucenko is now. That's what we say. As the prosecutor’s office had previously commented, he eats like a sausage and meat blanket, he loses a pound [19.5 kg] and was forced to bring him to the hospital where he is today. His life is in danger, it is for each of you to understand. And today, in protest, we're leaving the conference room. Tomorrow we'll also start with this question in the session room. We understand that the day of opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u41	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u42	The TV channels on this issue, but still no law will be voted out, we know very well about it, and we're leaving the session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u43	Just a minute. Then. There's one more minute. I'll ask you not to leave the session room until we finally make a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! We're in solidarity with our fraternal faction colleagues. Let's add another one to this information. In half an hour, an unprecedented trial against Julia Timoshenko begins. The faction leaves the hall and goes to defend its leader. We see developments with regard to gas contracts and how this bubble ends criminally, how things are going around the rural areas with the help of people as cars that provide medical care, and this bubble ends as soon as it ends. And we understand the third bubble they're blowing up right now, it's Jacobs. is an abuse in the signing of gas contracts. Today, the facts are being made public that it will be another farce of criminal persecution by one of the leading leaders of the opposition not only in Ukraine. We are strongly protesting against such an act. We are definitely against the "day of opposition" starting with such cynical and demonstrative persecution and Yuri Lucenka and Julia Timoshenko. We ask today to move our questions, which we have initiated today to view as Wednesday -- the day of opposition, we know their price, what it will be like to be included in the agenda, what it will be considered. We realize that this too can turn into an empty chat, and then the day will pass again. We, too, leave the hall in protest and go to the courtroom. We don't know how this process can end. We're going to protect our leader and democracy in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear people's deputies, I've been there before. Please don't leave the session room for one minute. Ivan Grigorovitch, Mikola Volodymyrovich, you just don't give me as the presiding field for manoeuvre. I understand that during the Conciliation Board we agreed on one thing. Now you've obviously changed your mind -- this is your absolute right -- about something completely different. Then on Wednesday we will not be holding any meetings, counting those issues that should be dealt with by representatives of the opposition. I understand your situation, but you don't have to repeat what happened in the past: when you've proposed to vote for raising social standards and decide that you won't deny it. We understand well that opposition should take advantage of the opportunity to convey its point of view to people. If you think you're going to ask a question, and you're going to make a decision, well, let's look for arguments when you can. I'm in charge of making decisions, but let's have some opportunity to support the dialogue! So let's, dear fellows, find compromise. And you and I have agreed that there will be consultations, we will return to that question. Well, if you don't, you'll find your hair on the stone. What will this give us? You can come out later, that's the problem. Please, other factions: Ephraim, and Communists, others, if any.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, to be honest, I don't understand what's going on either. When our colleagues asked some questions, we looked with attention and understanding at these issues. We agreed that we just needed a little time to make a definitive determination. Everyone agreed to that, too. Then it takes five minutes, and then there's a completely different demarche. Okay, I get it. I don't need a solution. I just need a scandal. If you need a scandal, you'll say so. At that time, we will not waste our time and your time on empty issues. For our part, we believe that we have held a very constructive meeting, we have responded to requests on the other hand, and we have to settle the marches after a positive decision is made and it takes only a short time to obtain final agreement from all factions, at least an unconstructive approach. Now for the second moment. This is not the first time we have met, Vladimir Mihajlovich, when on Wednesday, the agenda setting out, opposition representatives simply do not want to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u47	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u48	I don't understand what it means that the whole BUT faction is going to trial today. If necessary, representatives should go, but the others should work on the agenda they have proposed to work today. And that's just what it's called. They spit it out, turned around and left. Then, Vladimir Mihajlovich, and with all the consequences, must be calculated from the wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, Mikola Martinenko, and we'll move on to the subject. Then Peter Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u50	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, our action that we're leaving this room right now, we want to draw political attention to this issue, and it can't be an insult to the MPs who are in the room. And you don't have to do hurtful performances. What's going on, especially with Lucenko, you all understand very well, you're just afraid to talk about it. And that's a very clear assessment. I have already given an example: With those who beat people, they are not planted for play. Period. That's the first question. Nor should I speculate on the Day of Opposition, where two percent of the bills are being passed, and I have already presented this statistics in my speech. We're even willing to give this day away, my proposal, for example, that I'm willing to discuss in order to make a day of reform so that you can show what reforms you're doing in the end. And we're leaving today, and we know how to get in very easily: tomorrow morning we're in the hall, and tomorrow morning we're going to start with that. Please don't take this as an insult, it's our political position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, Peter Cibenko. I want to say again before the factions come out, you understand, you're limiting the maneuvering field, because tomorrow the other side will say, they're forcing us to make the right decision. It's going to be what I said again. The hair's coming to the stone. So I would ask you, if we have an understanding. Let's work. Please. You've made your decision. Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u52	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, well, I don't even think anymore, I don't hope, I'm absolutely sure it's not even a requirement anymore, it's blackmail. Because several meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which go under the phrase "day of opposition," are torn down by the very so-called opposition with all the consequences that come out of it. That's the first one. It's different. You know, I would still like our colleagues to be at least consistent. Because from the microphone, their bills state that they are fighting against privileges, and today, even in this matter, we are trying to put the minister in a separate position. If we are concerned about the situation of those behind bars, let us listen to the general picture. So why are we taking someone out of this general trend? I think it's just once again that we're convinced that this is being used as an excuse to blackmail the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and that it's not doing the honors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u53	Chaplain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u54	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you know, I would like to confirm the words that, in fact, today at the Conciliation Council meeting, we have agreed that, during one day, today, we will hold consultations, we will express the only position in which we can get out of this difficult situation in which the Supreme Council and the political community, with the demand of the representatives of "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" for the detention of Mr. Lucenk. But what's happening to me today is completely incomprehensible things when the faction rises and enters. So I think that if a decision is made by a consolidated politician about what is necessary in any way to intervene in this situation, the MP faction will support, the Reforms for the Future will support this thesis. But you can't support an empty room. Therefore, we urge our representatives to return and work for the benefit of our Fatherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! We have no choice but to continue the consideration of the issues set out in the timetable. The reporters will -- we'll look at it, the reporters won't -- I'll put the committee's decision to the vote. All of it. Dear National Deputies! We need to consider a group of bills to include them in the agenda. Draft law on the introduction of urgent amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code, by the bill of Sergei Terjehohin. [[on small business, expiration dates and tax administration optimization]] Is there a Sergey Teryohin? None. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft law on the introduction of urgent changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code, on the introduction into the agenda. [[Registration number 8289]] [[on small business, expiration dates and tax administration optimization]] [[11:40:10]] For 20 The decision is not taken. In accordance with the Rules, the draft law is considered to have been rejected in the next session. Dear colleagues! We were about to consider a draft decree to increase the subsistence minimum to the minimum wage in 2011. [[Registration number 8281]] At the Conciliation Council meeting, we decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine postpone consideration of the matter in view of the absence of a reporter and his appropriate written address and proposal to the committee. So I'd like to ask your solidarity to postpone this matter until the next plenary week. Dear colleagues! I bet. Now 8323, this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the use of VAT privatisation costs by Skretelekom to increase the minimum level of pension insurance]] The authors of the projects by Mikola Tomenko, Natalia Royal and National Deputy Semerak. Are there any reporters? None. I'm betting on the vote to include the draft law in the agenda. [[11:41:45]] For-27 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the increase in the level of the first tariff level of the Single Tariff Network]] [[Registration number 8334]] The authors of the draft Laws of Polochalo, Dáviuk, Orobec and Donaj. Are there any reporters? None. I am voting on the inclusion of the draft Act in the agenda. [[Registration number 8334]] [[11:42:33]] For-30 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Draft Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. [[on the subordination of public health institutions]] [[Registration number 8338]] The authors Andrew Cosemiakin and Roman Zabzaluk Are there any reporters? None. I am voting on the proposal to include the draft Act in the agenda. [[11:43:16]] For-50 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 57 of the Education Act of Ukraine (for the introduction of a 20 per cent salary allowance (remuneration wage) to teachers) (registration number 83333). The authors of Polojolo, Dávemuk, Orobec, Dony. Are there any reporters? None. I bet the vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill 8333 [[11:43:59]] For-48 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving the financial, food and supply of military personnel and their families]] [[Registration number 8339]] The authors are Kožemjakin, Zabzaluk. Are there any reporters? None. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law. [[Registration number 8339]] [[11:44:39]] For-45 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[on additional guarantees for the realization of the rights of Ukrainian national deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 8248]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Areseniy Yatsenuk. Is there a reporter? None. I'm voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of draft law 8248. [[11:45:21]] For 1 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we should now be discussing the inclusion of the day-to-day draft of the World Cultural Forum in the celebration of the 200th anniversary of T. H. Shevchenk's birth. But we agreed with you, Your Honor, on the Conciliation Council that we will postpone consideration of this issue in connection with the President’s appropriate decrees and relevant decisions. And the committee has to learn more about how it's going to fit in, maybe it's just duplication. And that was the committee's request, and we agreed to it on the Conciliation Council. I'd like us to put it away. Next draft of the Order marking the 200th anniversary of John Vagilevitch's birth. The author is Vladimir Yavorowski. I don't think there's any need to tell the biography of John Vagilevitch, the folklore, the ethnographer, the philosopher, one of the members of the Russian Trinity. So I'm going to put to the vote the proposal to include draft regulation 8367 in the agenda, please vote. [[11:47:03]] For 215 The factions? Please. The Party of Regions – 172, "BUT - "The Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 0, faction of Communists – 2, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, National Party – 19, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues, this is a neutral draft of the decree, it is necessary and should be accepted by us. Well, I'm going to put to the vote a motion for a return to the draft ruling. On your return to the draft order, please vote. [[11:47:51]] For 224 The decision is not taken. The draft decision was rejected. Now, dear fellows, I offer your opinion on the 70th anniversary of Bogdar Kotorovich's birth. I think you all know Bogdar Kotorovich, he's recently out of his life. The author of the draft decision is the head of the Yavorowski Committee on Culture and Spirituality. He doesn't have a reporter. I'm voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Order marking the 70th anniversary of Bogdar Kotorovich's birth. [[Registration number 8380]] Please vote. [[11:48:49]] For 244 We've put it into the agenda. I ask the committee to prepare this matter immediately for practical consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, dear colleagues, I propose to you a draft decree marking the 90th anniversary of Peter Jacek's birth. [[Registration number 8381]] The author of the draft decision is the head of the committee, Vladimir Yavorowski. Peter Yatzik is a well-known patronate, the founder of an international competition for Ukrainian language scholars. He has the rewards of Ukraine. There's no report? No questions? I would like to place a motion for inclusion in the agenda of the draft regulation. [[Registration number 8381]] Please vote. [[11:49:58]] For 218. The decision is not taken. The draft decision was rejected. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft decree to mark the 140th anniversary of the birth of Mikli Crowe. [[Registration number 8402]] This is a famous poet, translator, and theatre scholar. Again, it is an initiative from the committee and committee head, national deputy Vladimir Yavorowski. Is there a question for this draft decision? You don't? I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft regulation. [[Registration number 8402]] Please vote. [[11:50:53]] For 218.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u56	The factions? Please. The decision is not taken. The draft decision was rejected. The faction of the Party of the Regions – 175, "BUT - Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 1, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, we now need to consider essentially a number of drafts that are prepared for the first reading. I have a request, given that there are no reporters, that if there is a representative of the committee, let us listen to the committee representative and continue to make appropriate decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u57	What, what? Well, of course it's a discussion. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving housing and utility bills and improving the quality of their provision is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 7099]] The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Correspondent is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy Zinovo Vasilovich Skutjak. I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[11:52:23]] For 219 Decision taken. Head of the Royal Commission. None. Reenactment of the committee. None. Who will report from the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u58	I'm paying attention to the heads of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy on the need for a more responsible approach to the issues under consideration. Please sign up for the discussion. Name, please. Jaroslav Suhi and Caplienko. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose to support this bill. The point is that it refers to one undetermined situation so far on the basis of housing services, when, we know, very often there are some situations on the network, and then people are forced to pay for these expenses with their own pockets, which are completely unrelated to their guilt or not provided for in the contracts. Thus, the bill is written in a clear, objective way. And I'm surprised that neither the co-reporter nor the author will report this bill. Because it would be in the interest of those people today who are very difficult to pay for residential services. And it's become difficult not just because prices have grown, but because there are a lot of things that just don't make sense at the moment. So this bill removes these norms and sets clear standards for the elimination of accidents that have occurred in one system or another, so that people don't pay too much money. I suggest you take the basis of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u60	National Deputy Kaplanko, Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u61	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Of course, we will support this bill in the first reading in view of the following. Indeed, it is suggested that relationships be arranged between entities that provide services on a network of utilities and their consumers. First, an attempt is made to resolve the issue of whether the heating season should begin or end at the same time. Of course, a more transparent way is recommended – to make calculations or to prove the reality of calculations for services that are provided for electricity or gas consumption. In particular, there are problems. This bill, article 16, paragraph 2, stipulates that to start at the same time, whether the heating season has been completed in time, does not take into account those categories of consumers as hospitals, kindergartens, schools that may in principle continue to burn for longer periods. I think in the second reading, we think that in the second reading, we need to reconcile these things. And the second. The content of the new edition of part seven of article 276 of the Ukrainian master code, according to which the consumer of resources pays for the energy released, needs to be reconciled. Article 714 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which requires the consumer or subscriber to pay the cost of only the resources received. In the first reading, the Reforms for the Future group will support this, but we insist that the second reading be corrected accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u62	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, during the May celebrations, when we celebrated the Great Victory, I held dozens of meetings with people in Luhansk, Chernigovishka, and Equinox. The main issue that concerns our voters today is the rise in prices for essential products, goods of general use and residential services. There is no more pressing problem today for millions of citizens of the country if they do not know what they are getting paid for the utility. Even if they want to pay, but they don't have the ability to pay those non-renewable numbers when they get people's pension there for 900 dollars, and the utility needs 600 to 700 dollars to pay and plus food for something to help their grandchildren. So I'm going to the government, obviously this law needs to be supported, it's going to help make people pay less. But I'm going to the government -- put all my other things aside, there's no more pressing question than taking measures to lower prices, to stop price increases. As an agrarian country, we beat world record in rising food prices. We're a civilized country, and millions of people don't know what to make $7 million for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u64	Finish, because for one minute, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u65	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u67	So I'm calling on the government to take immediate action and make decisions that would limit the price of housing services and normalize the cost of tariffs so that people don't pay for services they don't get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u68	Yes, dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? None. We have to take it. And please, Peter Cibenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u69	Thank you, Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will certainly support this bill because it is truly in the interests of the people. The other thing is that the drafters of the bills that passed it, I would like them to be so persistent in implementing these approaches when they were in power. And one more thing I want to say about this bill right now. You know, respectable colleagues, the rise in prices and tariffs that's going on, I don't have any logic, because any one of those community service managers who raise tariffs should understand that after each increase in tariffs, they're going to get less than they get to raise. And it's not because you don't want to pay, it's because you can't pay the tariffs in the amount that they are today. So they just contradict themselves when they raise these tariffs. Once again, I would like to emphasize that the faction will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also thinks that the bill can be adopted as a basis, so the positions here are congruent. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving housing and utility bills and improving the quality of their provision. [[Registration number 7099]] Please vote. [[12:00:06]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the session room. We're continuing the meeting. We're looking at the draft Local Police Act. [[Registration number 4199]] The bill was drafted by the National MP of Ukraine, Mr. Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich. The committee is Moses. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:31:00]] For a hundred and Offer supported. Anatoly Sergiyovich, please, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u72	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Well, first of all, my dear colleagues, I would like to say that I, in solidarity with our faction on the grounds that we are forced to leave the hall objectively, and I would ask to view it not as blackmail, but, indeed, as the political position of Yuri Lucenko is being tortured today. And I don't think anyone should be warned about jail time and money. And we obviously need to uphold the principles of democracy of respect for human rights and freedoms. And whatever faction you're in, we obviously need to be in this room in solidarity. And I'd like to ask and ask my colleagues to reject political ambitions, as far as it can go. Now it's about the bill. The need to adopt this bill is primarily due to the need to make law enforcement more effective. If anyone today says that he is satisfied with the activities of law enforcement agencies, I think he will not be sincere. Obviously, any monopoly leads to reproduction, and if you look at the effective functioning of law enforcement agencies, there is no similar monopoly in the democratic world. There are local police in the world today and there are law enforcement agencies in the world today at the local level, and this bill proposes the establishment of such a political institution. On the other hand, it is our direct action if we are sincere in the administrative reform proposed today by the President, because the quest for effective power is primarily due to decentralization. This bill proposes to start with the decentralization of our militia and thus make law enforcement more effective. On the other hand, we talked a lot about Lviv today. I want to give you a guarantee of almost 100 percent that if we had a local police force today, it would never be like that. As it will never be, for such facts can be repeated, and so this is another argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u73	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u74	The need for the adoption of this law. On the other hand, I would like to say that we remember history, and by doing so, Adam Ivanovich, let me conclude my report. When we passed the Local Police Act, it was a division of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and financed from the local budget that the Constitutional Court found unconstitutional. Today, every megapolis has virtually a financial burden on its militia. For example, Kiev is 2.5 thousand. The question is, can't we see that? We close our eyes. I understand what fate, the more in this room, this bill may come across, but I would like to draw your attention to the need to take steps towards decentralization and the creation of local police. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u75	Thank you. From the committee. I don't see Moses. There's no other committee? Then please sign up. Two for, two against. Please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Paklusenko Alexander Mikolaiovich. From the faction he will say.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u77	I'm explaining. I'm sorry, now, Alexander Mikolayovich. I explain to my colleagues why they didn't sign up. There's only one recorded from the faction. Or plus, or minus. So there's only one faction of the faction. Please, Hellhound Alexander Mikolayovich. Get ready, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u78	I would like first of all to express my attitude towards the drafter of the bill. Anatoly Sergeyevich is one of the few representatives of the opposition, who is always constructive. And in these statements, his bills always contain a very good amount of grain. This bill, Anatoly Sergeevich, is no exception. I personally, as a man of regional politics, support you. We say all power is advice and money is Kiev. And it turns out that the authorities on the ground do not have the tools to exercise their powers. I therefore agree not only with the municipal police on the ground but also with the municipal tax inspection. And that's what we have to come to. Only, Anatoly Sergeyevich, do you understand perfectly that such a serious law cannot be adopted in such a way, conceptually even, that is to say, a law that must be worked out with all departments, ministries, it must certainly be basic and strategic, but it can be adopted in the future, not now with the course and with the summer. So the faction, by sharing your concept, by dividing your approach, still proposes to take this seriously, systematically. And I'm sure we'll be able to go out for six months, really, on a bill that will be supported by all the halls.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u79	Lechenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u80	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Just two days ago, we celebrated exactly the most important holiday: the 66th anniversary of the Great Victory of the Soviet people in the Great Homeland War. The government and the political parties that had nothing to do with this victory were striving to please the veterans: they drank a hundred grams of the front with them, including the President, who has not yet signed the Law on the Flag of Victory to please the nationalists who are already in charge of the Fascist massacres in Lviv. We know of the infamous contribution to delaying the time of the victory of the police, which destroyed all those who fought Hitler’s invaders during the years of the war. That's why the word "police" causes deep resentment in veterans, in the labor community, in all normal people. On the part of the initiators to turn the militia into "police," there's an argument that the word "militia" means labour-rural formation, and it no longer corresponds to reality. Shame on those interpreters. Although today's police are no longer the same, because the police have, in fact, ensured the rule of law in the labor-rural state and protected the rights of ordinary people. And today's authorities are forcing militiamen to defend the interests of rich capitalists, oligarchs, and to trample on the interests of a man's work. And the name of the rule of law will not improve. So the faction of the Ukrainian Company is deeply indignant about the local police bill, and there will never be a vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u81	Yes, the discussion is over. Yeah, from a faction that didn't sign up. Who's there? Budger, one minute, please. Not from the faction, but from the group.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u82	First of all, this bill does not correspond to article 29 of the Constitution. That's the first one. The bill brings disorder to the law enforcement system as a whole in the state. We still missed the local police in Lviv to hit each other’s foreheads — the police and the local police. What's "city police"? This will protect the princes of the local administrations, their houses, their markets, which they took. Next up, local police. The police in this bill alone, the mayor or the head of administration, decide how much the police need. I'm like a practitioner who's been driving for 36 years, definitely against that approach. We need a single police force at this time, but I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u83	Finish up. Thank you. Please, Matvienka's replica, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u84	There are well - known words, if we were to learn the way we should, we probably wouldn't be talking about the kind of nonsense that has just been said. I would like to say only words of gratitude for understanding that this subject should be strengthened by legislation. And one thing I couldn't say in two minutes. Militia is a militarized military force union to drive people into a corridor for a particular purpose. The police are a city, this is a settlement. This is a word that today, if we don't follow dictatorship, is absolutely appropriate. Even if you're referring so often to Russia, I'm talking to my colleagues, look, they're gone. So don't be afraid of money, give up dictatorship. Maintain a democratic perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u85	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of Bill No. 4199, the draft Law on Local Police. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:41:26]] For 1 The findings of the Committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are to be sent to further the subject of the legislative initiative. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:41:56]] For two. The bill was rejected. We are considering the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine. [[on improving legislation in the area of material damage to rehabilitated citizens]] Registration number 7528. There's a short cut. Please vote. [[12:42:32]] For 206 Copy that. The author of the bill is Kulczynski Mikola Georgievic, not available. Taran Victor Vasilovich, not available. Please sign up for the discussion. Please, Cranowil, follow him, Smitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u86	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, national MPs! Our faction, I'm sorry, Adam Ivanovich, for you the MP group has been very serious about this bill from all angles. It has a number of problems that really don't allow it to be accepted as a whole. But there are circumstances: the first circumstance, this is our common, great debt to people who, in their own time, suffered from repression and officially, absolutely officially, part of still the authorities of the Soviet Union, another part of the bodies of the relevant Ukrainian People's State, the Ukrainian independent State, were recognized as being illegally repressed, were rehabilitated. And for them there are in most civilized countries around the world, about these people, certain rules of responsibility of a state that has some legal effect on the actions that have taken place. And so we think that these norms are more or less adequately set out in our colleague Kulchinsky's bill. Some of them lead to some duplication, they need to be removed, but to our conviction we can do so in the second reading procedure, we have considered the possibility of such a revision to the second reading in view of article 116 of the Rules. In fact, by not adding new materials, you can remove things that really cause questionable treatment or duplication. And the bill will meet the standards that have been adopted in many countries, including the Russian Federation, where these norms were introduced in the early 1990s. So we propose to support the bill during the first reading, but when preparing for the second reading procedure with it, really, very seriously work out and remove those moments that may give rise to serious warnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u87	Please, Smitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u88	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Adam Ivanovich, I took the floor not to speak, but to say my vision. If there is no bill author, if there is no bill co-rapporteur, if no one reports, if the law is essentially impossible to ask the question, there can be no argument for the bill. How can we consider these bills? I ask you not to ask these questions, especially since there are procedural issues under the Rules that do not allow this issue to happen. And why do this if the author does not want to stand up for his point of view or the point of view he expressed in the bill, how can he be supported without discussing it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u89	The author doesn't just want to, the author makes a demarche, and we have to decide with you, because today the author left a job that screams about going to work instead of going to work, and tomorrow, if we don't look at it today, he'll come and say, look at my bill. So then we'll be doing a favor to those who do the demorals and don't go to work. I mean, I support you, on the one hand, and I'm in favour of the authors, but if they ignore the work, it's their right, and the Supreme Council's right to decide with the bills. Please, Popescu, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u90	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Great colleagues, if the idea itself deserves attention, it needs to be worked out, and there are two moments. The first point is that the proposal is contrary to the valid norm of article 77 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act, which provides for the establishment of pensions not only for rehabilitated citizens, but also for members of their families who have been forcibly displaced. So you either need to make changes to article 77 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act or to the legislative initiative itself. And second moment. The objection is also a proposal to increase pensions for women, men who have not been repressed, to a greater extent than those who have been repressed and rehabilitated should be considered here. So in order not to overthrow this bill, the Party of Regions will vote in favour of sending it to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u91	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine. [[Registration number 7528]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:47:53]] For 20 Not supported. There's an offer for pre-processing. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:48:14]] For 204 No decision taken. The bill is rejected. We are considering the draft Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u92	The factions? Please use fractions: Region Party - 164, Fatherland – 0, Our Ukraine – 1, Communists – 0, reforms – 19, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 0. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the transfer of disabled cars in the form of humanitarian aid is under consideration. [[children with disabilities]] [[a second first reading]] [[Registration number 6266]] There is a motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[12:49:08]] For 201 Supported. The author of the initiative is National Deputy Kravchuk Vasil Petrovich. None. The committee is chaired by the committee, Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich. None. Yes, please, Cibenka. Please, two minutes. First Deputy Head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u93	Thank you, Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. My fellow Members, I would like to present this bill, the position of the committee on this bill, not to support the author of the bill, but to protect the people whose problems are in the view of the bill. And the point is that this bill was submitted to the author for first reading, it was rejected, and it was designed to be redrafted. Unfortunately, the committee was unable to review it after the re-registration, but I will brief you very briefly on the substance of the bill. The point is that the author of the bill proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine on fundamentals of social protection and on humanitarian assistance in order to determine the right of members of the family of the deceased disabled to leave the car free of charge, including the humanitarian aid granted***, which the deceased disabled had used for less than 10 years. This legislative initiative was supported during the first draft, because the problem is, unfortunately, too. Dear colleagues, you and I are very often convinced that this problem is extremely urgent and must be addressed in a society of disabled people. Sadly, though, today we face a situation that is more specific than the Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities or on Humanitarian Aid. And there's a 999 Order of the Cabinet of Ministers, which, as it were, in quotes, "corrects" the law. Consider the legislative initiative, including Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, to solve the problem. But all the same, the Cabinet of Ministers, by its determination, has reversed this problem so that the de facto disability has no ability to realize it. That's why I think, despite the observation of the Science and Technology Department, and it's really here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u94	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u95	I'm still proposing, despite the fact that the committee has not officially considered, even though the first edition of this bill has been considered, I propose to adopt this bill as a basis in the process of preparing for the second reading to correct the things that are and still take a step towards meeting the disabled, which is I propose to accept it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u96	Thank you. If you would like to participate in the discussion, please sign up. Yes, Gordien Sergey, the Communist faction. Behind him is Smitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u97	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, I would like to say that there are often questions in the MP's mail and people are faced with the problem of dying or any other loved one who has received a car under the law. But the body has not yet cooled down, as they are already running to get this car. You know that all the legislative initiatives that have been initiated by the faction of the Company of Ukraine have been directed by the State to transmit the car free of charge regardless of the term of use. And today, I was personally addressed by a resident of the region of Gadyan, Taran, who heard that the bill would be being considered, and they asked us to make a change to article 38, which would have a clear and unequivocal purpose of handing over the disabled car to the family. I think that would be right and fair. Now the situation is as human as it is. Although it was a faction of the Ukrainian Company, such initiatives are organized, but the order in which the Cabinet of Ministers defines them, and in particular Order 999, makes it absolutely impossible to leave the car in the hands of the family. The faction of the Company of Ukraine proposes to support this bill and resolve it. We'll do good service to the disabled family.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u98	Please, Gregory Smythech, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u99	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Unfortunately, there are few people in the room, and I want to look to the amount that is present with the following understanding of this problem. Well, let's think if a person got a car for free, is that his property or not? Property. Well, someone canceled private property on a car, including. According to the Constitution? No, it's not. Why, then, does this man, God forbid, die or something, for other natural reasons, cause the car to be confiscated? What, his family has no right to this car? What, did we have someone cancel the Constitution? And here comes the services that want to use, pick up, excuse me, often drive some old, old car? She's giving us the budget? What does this procedure give any additional income to national development, national development, economic development? But long ago, this issue needs to be rectified and this car must be abandoned as all the property that is in one person or another. And if death occurs for one reason or another, natural or catastrophic or otherwise, it is property that passes on to successors, to successors. We need to put this issue together and leave this car behind. I think this question is so small for the country and so important for every person who has the right to do so by virtue of their physical and other problems that it is absolutely necessary to vote and today support this idea. Clearly, despite today’s absence of opposition to the law. I will support this law and I propose to my colleagues to support this bill in the first reading. And you don't have to speculate that someone will bring in a Mercedes, and someone will get another one. If we have a Mercedes on the humanitarian side, God give us those humanitarians who will give us Mercedes. I'm going to advertise that they gave one of the disabled Mercedes. And let these people drive while you're at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u101	Clarification. From the factions that didn't act. None. From the non-fractional, give me 13 signatures, get the word. Yes, the honourable colleagues, the honourable colleagues, all those who spoke, are really talking about the fact that you and I have passed the law that the Cabinet of Ministers, unfortunately, copied. Because in the law, we made it clear what we should do. The Cabinet of Ministers, by its decree, wrote how it was necessary not to comply with the law. And unfortunately, the rules of law that you're talking about here are that if you pay for this transport after you've gone out of your life, you'll have to leave what you have to leave behind. I'm afraid that's what you're talking about. Sadly, those words included. I'm voting, I'm voting on a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on transfer. They've already spoken from the committee. It's not profile. Soccer isn't listed here. Here is a committee of veterans, disabled people, disabled people, disabled people, and disabled people. What is it, Sushimu? Please let me see if your committee has been recorded yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the point is that we, in the consideration of this bill, are being replaced. There are two concepts. It's a state-issued car in constant use after 10 years and so on. It's about that humanitarian aid. And learn how this amendment is recorded. Less than 10 years! So this is the same lasagna when, in the form of humanitarian aid, it's said that Gregory here was talking about acquisition of private property. Colleagues! It's the acquisition of private property for a car that's different from the total. No customs, no shipping, no taxes, no nothing! It's just a mere bypass maneuver to bring the technology here for those kids, for those people with disabilities. I want to talk about something else. We are obliged here, in the session room at the end, to adopt and approve a national programme on the provision of our disabled with light special transportation. Ukraine has such a technical potential!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u103	It's all right. Although I did. Because the committee wasn't assigned. In that connection, Lazko asked for one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u104	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich! I have long asked you for the benefit of millions of Ukrainian disabled people who are suffering from this problem. Because the family has been waiting for a car for decades, the disabled person has waited for a year or two later, not even being able to drive that car, and he has been taken away and handed over to another family. Why is this happening? Because this is how the state solves the problems of transporting people with disabilities at the expense of the disabled themselves. And that's why we usually need to uphold this law. One. The other one. I'm calling on the Cabinet of Ministers to revoke a ruling that actually undermines the rules of the Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities Act. And the third. I'm calling on the Cabinet of Ministers to make changes to the 2011 budget and anticipate an increase in the cost of providing people with special needs to provide for disabled persons with the necessary transport. And so we're going to help solve the problem that tens of thousands of people with disabilities can't wait for their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u105	I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the transfer of cars with disabilities in the form of humanitarian aid. [[children with disabilities]] [[Registration number 6266]] Please vote. [[13:01:26]] For-31 Factions: The Party of Regions – 4, "The Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine" – 0, Communists – 25, "The Reforms" – 0, People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 2. Why don't we send him back for work?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u106	I'm putting this motion to a vote: to send a bill under number 6266 to the author of the legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. [[13:02:10]] For-45 Not supported. The bill was rejected. We're discussing the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Casualty Minimum on Consumer Basket Forming. [[Registration number 6536]] There's a short-term proposal, please. [[13:02:41]] For 193 There's been an offer. Here is the author of the Royal Legislative Initiative. None. From the committee head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, of course, are a very important, principled bill. Why? Because the consumer basket determines the range of food and services. According to the consumer basket, the minimum cost is determined. But it is sad that today this party, which opposition, for political reasons, has left the hall instead of coming to social law. It may not be necessary. Don't you need a reason? Because they once introduced it, failed it in 2010, now they want someone to decide for them. But that's on their conscience when they talk about social protection, especially when Pavlovski's here getting high all the time, scaring the numbers, not coming to uphold the law. Now essentially. He can't be accepted. It's a committee decision. Why? Because this law establishes a mechanism that can't be decided, especially the minimum of one person's living needs, different categories of groups need when it's done, when it's time. There's nothing to say. So I want to draw attention to the fact that today the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, the head of our committee present, and the head of the Federation Hara Vasil Georgievovich informed me that, in principle, the Federation of Trade Unions and all trade unions with the government have already identified, and it is the product set that has identified, the basket of living. As soon as this is confirmed on three sides: the government, employers and trade unions, the next step will be to determine the minimum of living, because the minimum of living provides this basket. Today, frankly, the minimum of living has not been reviewed since 2000. In 2005, the then orange government didn't solve the issue, and it's down 30 to 40 percent. It has to be, at least, about a thousand 300, a thousand 500 bucks. As a result, we need to identify this consumer basket. The law doesn't say anything about that. It's a law so populist. He will not solve the issues related to the consumer basket. So we're proposing that this bill be rejected and that the government and employers be invited to speed up the delivery of the consumer basket, and on the basis of it, adopt a new consumer basket and a minimum of living. The committee proposes to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u108	Yes, please sign up for the discussion. Please, Smythech, follow him, Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u109	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Unfortunately, the head of the Royal Committee who introduced this bill, absent from the room, although on all television, she speaks of social justice on all screens and of those people who are not protected by us, and today she does not demonstrate that this is an issue that is very relevant today, in my opinion, considering that by communicating with our electorate, with the Ukrainians, we know that this is the most important, urgent issue in our day. In my opinion, the law itself sounds very demeaning and very tragic, just think about the minimum of living. Who determined the minimum of living? What are his standards? What basket is it weighed with? What's the scale? What is foretold today? Who is investigating this issue, the minimum of living? How did it happen that Ukraine is the richest country even in the world of land and natural resources, yes, per capita, how did it happen that we are talking about a minimum of living today? We don't need to talk about living at least, we need to talk about wealth if we want to go to Europe, or we want to go somewhere. In my mind, living at least is a horror, it's a tragedy. It's got to be talked about today, not standing there at the rally and so on, and here we sit at midnight, day after day, and we've got most of the population in Ukraine today that's beyond the minimum of living, and if we don't do something right now, well, forgive me, I understand that way, to be honest that I understand that they're going to do something with us. We need to do something now. And we really need to talk about this in the committees and put it as a national priority program to overcome this minimum of living. And we have to do something about it. That's why I'm here. I'm saying this and I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers, because when we look at the budget, we have to look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u110	Please, Capplienko will pass on the word of Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u111	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! With regard to this bill. A story with a minimum of living and a consumer basket is a long time ago. I want to remind you that about the year 2000, for the first time in Ukraine, this concept was introduced as one of the norms in budgeting and social policy setting. And then we all said it was a really positive trend, but we immediately noticed that it was implemented by Victor Yushchenk's government at the time in a totally unacceptable way, that we were putting together the composition of the consumer basket, and we were pushing the minimum cost of living. The possibilities that the budget had at the time. In fact, everything should be done in exactly the opposite order. We really need to form a minimum that predicts normal human development. Not least biological survival, but at least for a person who doesn't enjoy pleasure, but who can feel more or less worthy of being in his state. And keep trying to push fiscal and social policies into those standards. That mistake that was made by the government of Viktor Andryovich went on with all the subsequent governments, unfortunately, and today we have the same system in place. We're somewhere trying to connect the two concepts of "budgetary" and "social policy" to a minimum of living that doesn't match its normal adequate even name. And in that case, it would be good to take a step forward to break this misunderstanding. We realize that the law proposed by the Kingdom is not good enough to say that it solves this problem, but it is a step in breaking this bad relationship. And so our group is proposing to vote for it in the first reading, in the second reading, to work actively. If, by that time, we see the position presented jointly by both the Federation of Trades and the government, then we will quietly vote against this law in the second reading and support the new proposal. If it is not there by then, at least accept this document to get out.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u112	Gordien. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u113	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences, respected TVs! I would like to draw attention to the cynicism with which we have been discussing all these 20 years in the state under bourgeois rule. Some in power are passed by laws, they are removed from power, and everything is done to ensure that such bills are never adopted. Again, I support Taras Crnovol, who says that, along with fiscal policy, the minimum of living is also accepted. We haven't done this in years. We cannot cook any longer in the family today, for the disastrous journey of all things on the market does not allow the poorest to survive. I would like to say that the faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote for it, but it speaks of the need to restrict, introduce and moratorium on price increases. I draw attention to the fact that a newspaper was published in Cremencucci in 1942.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u114	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u115	The German occupying "Dniprova wave" was published. And I read in this paper that the German occupying authorities have issued orders to ban the increase in prices at the most necessary, because the poorer Ukrainians can't buy anything. So I ask the question: a bourgeois authority that has been in the country for 20 years, that it is the worst German occupationist? If we don't, then yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u116	Easy. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u117	Thank you very much. My dear colleagues, the tragedy is that the people in Ukraine are doubling from their billions, they're painting on the Forbes pages, and in a year of crisis, they're doubling the wealth, and millions of Ukrainian citizens on the hill that they've made these billions of dollars are barely living on: they don't know what to pay the utility for, what to send the child to school for, what to chew or cook for, what to buy the pill for -- that's what the tragedy of our country is. And this law that we're looking at today is really a mess, it can solve hundreds of problems that are facing poor people today. But even this law will not be able to be passed in the hall, for the majority represented in Parliament today is an advocate of the interests of the oligarchs. The oligarchs are interested in making their own money, and millions of people are interested in walking in bars. That's the philosophy. Therefore, it is necessary to change power, to change the government that does not keep its promises, to bring responsibility to those who have destroyed the country in 20 years that has led to the poverty of millions of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u118	But it would be fair to say that the opposition forces back then advocated corporate interest, far from state interest. Both human and human. I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act, registration number 7536, please vote. [[on the formation of a consumer basket]] [[13:13:45]] For-49 Not accepted. Factions: Region Party 3, Fatherland – 0, Our Ukraine – 0, Communists – 25, reforms – 19, People's Party – did not vote, non-fractional – 2. Perhaps the subject of a legislative initiative for further development? Please vote. [[13:14:27]] For-42 The bill was rejected. Yes, we are considering a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the signing of the Interstate Kharkiv Agreement on the existence of signs of treason in the sphere of economic security of Ukraine and the failure to comply with the requirements of the Constitution by the President, the Government of Ukraine on the proper social protection of the population of Ukraine. [[2010]] [[Registration number 8336]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:15:22]] For-53 We will then follow the full procedure to consider the matter. The author of the bill is Zabzaluk. I can't see. From the committee is Maceinko Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Who from the Rules Committee? Please sign up for the discussion. Who, who, and the Rules Committee need to work. The factions and groups are still coming. Now it's from the people's deputies. Please, Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future. Next up is Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u119	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The subject is very problematic, very difficult. But her decision, in my view, is not appropriate. Our group has been looking into this issue. I looked at all the circumstances in the context of the Kharkiv arrangement. And we see that, today, the lock that was at the time of signing these agreements, that this is the great victory of Ukraine, that this great achievement, has already fallen slightly. Today, too, those who then spoke enthusiastically about these arrangements say that, unfortunately, they did not solve the basic task that was laid out in these agreements, did not resolve the issue of a real gas price drop, did not resolve the issue of the rejection of the formula that was imposed by the previous government, which was simply a killer for Ukraine. And that these arrangements can actually be called a kind of retreat, perhaps even a capitulation of Ukraine against the severe pressure of the Russian government, the Russian Federation in situations where Ukraine was once again faced with a choice, or a colossal problem with gas supply, or a deal that we were not comfortable with. In view of this, it is obvious that we should extend some kind of sympathy to those who had to make decisions in very negative circumstances that they must have understood best, and then they would be very negative for themselves, for the government of Ukraine, for the President of Ukraine. But today, when representatives of the opposition offer harsh statements of condemnation, propose the creation of commissions of inquiry, we come up with, and in our group and in general many deputies, two questions arise: What were the Harkow arrangements, what were they? They were the result of Moscow’s agreements. Unfortunately, they've deepened the situation, they've legitimized the interstate legislative scope of the Moscow deal that was between the host subjects, but they're the result, they're the second step, and they're asking questions today about the creation of a commission of inquiry, the signs of treason, and so on, the Harkow agreements, taking them away from the general context, we find it inappropriate and unacceptable. These two issues are completely shared, one could vote on the integration of these issues with the commission headed by the Other Godsister, and there were other points to be put on, but they could not be put separately, it was a secondary document, a harkow agreement, and it should be treated that way. Thus, we do not support this draft decision by condemning a number of circumstances associated with the Kharkiv arrangement. Moreover, it is not in line with our Ukrainian legislation, which clearly defines what the commission of inquiry should do, they should create certain nuances of standardization. In this case, they don't give a field for standardization.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u120	Please let Stoyan pass on the word of Ephraim. Please, there's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u121	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to continue the topic that the colleague has just spoken. There was no victory after the signing of the Kharkiv Agreements, but there was a hard work to convince our neighbours to agree to consider the topic. They stated from the outset that the formula signed by Timoshenko had fully addressed them, but the problem was that the formula had brought Ukraine to its full knees. And today to say that both are the same thing, it's not exactly the right thing to do. Because if it had not been for the first time, there would not have been a state of oppression in which Ukraine had been forced to sign the agreement in Harkov. And if you remember earlier that, at the time that Viktor Fedorovic was Prime Minister for the first time, an agreement was reached with the Russian Federation and the gas at the time was $57, and the price was until 2012, and then when Yushchenko and Timoshenko came to power, they changed those agreements with the Russian Federation and immediately set the price of another, there were naturally prerequisites when we were in pre-game negotiations with the Russian Federation. Therefore, it is necessary to look at it first in this context, as is now the question, at the signing of the Treaty of Timoshenko in the Russian Federation, because under this formula, if there were no reduction, we would already have a gas price of $500. I believe that the draft currently under consideration has no right at all to be put in such a language. Therefore, the faction of the Party of the Regions will not vote in favour of the document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u122	Oleg Lazko, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u123	It is clear that the draft Decision establishing the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the conditions of the signing of the Harkow Agreement does not solve the problem under several circumstances. First. There is no Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry. The other one. We've had commissions here dozens of times, even though one of us has helped? No, it's not. It is therefore necessary to ask not about the establishment of commissions to investigate the Kharkiv treaties, but about the President's proposal to denounce those treaties and not only the Harkow treaties, but also about the agreements signed by Timoshenko in Moscow in 2009. After all, the 2009 agreements between Timoshenko and Putin and the agreements signed by Yanukovic and Medvedev in Kharkiv are both directed against Ukraine’s national interests. Because when Prime Minister Timoshenko signed a $450 gas price agreement for Ukrainian businesses, for the consumer, it meant that the entire Ukrainian industry would be knee-deep. And it actually became. When President Janukovic and President Medvedev signed an agreement in Kharkiv on how to lower gas prices in exchange for Ukrainian territory and the Black Sea fleet in Crimea, it also did not solve the problem. Because we didn't actually get any discounts, we gave Russia a chance to re-establish it by 2042 in Crimea. And the price of gas will increase for both businesses and consumers. So that's the conclusion. Both the Tymoshenko Agreements and the Kharkiv Agreements are bonded, they are anti-State, they are directed against the national interests of Ukraine. Both Timoshenko and those who signed the Harkow Agreements should be responsible for signing these agreements. So I propose, with President Yanukovic's proposal: to denounce the agreements signed in Kharkiv, to denounce, to terminate agreements between the owners who were signed in Moscow, and to bring to justice all those who signed those agreements in 2009 and in 2010. Because these agreements do not correspond to the national interests of Ukraine. And instead of spending billions of dollars on Russian gas, it is better to invest billions of dollars in energy conservation, in reducing consumption of Russian gas, in billions of dollars in energy supply diversification, in contributing billions of dollars to the development of our own national production, such as peat, such as the Black Sea Shelf, and so on, where we can extract cheaper gas, cheaper energy, not attached to Russia. And it's a disgrace to those who signed agreements in Moscow that gave us such expensive gas. And shame on those who signed agreements in Kharkiv, not being able to defend the national interests of Ukraine. It's a disgrace to all the authorities who stand up for only Russian interests, not national, Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-11-m0.u124	Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. In 2009, you wouldn't be able to do that. And today, that's it. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Here I also want to say two words about what this committee would have had to say. But there are only two names on the committee that is proposed to be made up of nine persons. Selecting the head of the Zabzaluk commission and the deputy of Ariev’s head, there are no more names in this decree. But since it has been more than a month since this bill was submitted, the authors have insisted on a review, so even without a committee, we have a right and a duty, more specifically, to put the proposal to a vote under the Rules. I am voting on the proposal to set up a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the signing of the interstate Kharkiv Agreement on the existence of State treason. Registration number 8336. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:26:43]] For-0 "For" votes no, zero. And that's understandable, because the factionists aren't there either, and they don't vote. Dear colleagues, the order of the day for Tuesday, I'm sorry, we're exhausted on Wednesday. Let's move on to Thursday, well, if it wasn't for the parliamentary hearing. I remind you that there will be parliamentary hearings in the session room at 3 p.m. on the status and prospects of economic relations with the EU and the Customs Union. [[Free Trade Zone]] Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
