ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:52]] The 367 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on June 16, 2011. Thirty-five issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 11 laws and 10 bills were passed, 5 bills were passed on the basis, 2 bills were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, 8 bills and 2 draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 2 laws have been adopted in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go to the Friday schedule, I am obliged to contact you with relevant information. Ladies and gentlemen, you have rightly noted that there are people in the session room who have no relation to the MPs. At the same time, attempts by members of the Department of Public Protection in some national deputies to ask for certificates are exposed to obscene, mildly speaking, expressions. The statement that you chiefs should know everyone in the face, I think it's a nuisance that needs to be stopped immediately. And the mother's words that apply to national MPs, which I don't call names today, leave at this level of parenting for your family and loved ones. And to touch hands, to stretch for the form of a co-worker of the Department of State Protection, I don't think it's as good as a minimum for a national MP. And I'm asking you, and I warn you, if they apply to the National MP, then there will be no problem. It's our kids, you know, our kids are behind us, and we're gonna nail them, and we're gonna beat them in the chest. People's deputies don't have rights. I'm going to take this note to the faction, and you're going to figure it out in factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, 10 o'clock. I call names if you want them. Ivan Stoyko and Bully, behave yourself. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, we have an hour of questions to the Government. According to the factions' proposals today, the Ministry of Energy must be responsible for energy issues, from a fuel-energy complex. In view of the minister’s presence in the traveling work, this is an important reason to report and answer questions from Ukrainian national deputies today will be the prime minister’s deputy. Yeah? Deputy Minister? Czech Sergei Mikhailovich, right? Please. Please, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, frankly, I'm embarrassed to remind myself of that, but I'm going to do it all the time. Regardless of the fact that in accordance with article 35 of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers and article 230 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, in the course of the "hour of questions to the Government" the entire government should be in full stock, except for those who are absent for important reasons, today there is a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, Tihypco. There are no others. Do we have a government that's all that's worth missing for, or what, Vladimir Mikhailovich? What kind of disrespect is that? Is that disrespect for the deputies? Is it because you are unable to organize an event or how? Stop breaking the Rules and the Cabinet of Ministers Act! And today asking questions not to a member of the Cabinet of Ministers banned by law is invalid, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Stop breaking the law! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u3	Thank you for your attention. Thank you for your comments and recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm informing you. Today, with an official visit abroad, the President of Ukraine, with him, is a group of ministers. The Prime Minister of Ukraine is on a mission to Lugansk, with him a group of ministers. Wait a minute! First Vice Prime Minister is on his way to St. Petersburg. You see how the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine works. Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand, but according to you. Dear colleagues, no shouting! But under the Cabinet of Ministers Act, and the Rules of Procedure Act, that's an important reason. Unfortunately, you're right about the fact that we need to agree with the Cabinet of Ministers in advance with you, not on Wednesday at the end of the day to determine who we want to listen to, but in advance, as a minimum on Monday, to tell you which minister should not be on deployment. Yes, I still forgot that a group of ministers are still on their way to the United States. Don't scream! That's why today's vice-premier and ministers -- I have it written that the minister of health is present, and he is present -- those who are Kiev. So we have a choice: Either we listen to the question, or we need to keep our ranks clean and wait. Time's up. Please answer the question. Let's put it this way: written questions in turn from each faction. You have half an hour to answer your questions. The answer to one question is in two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! First, I'm going to answer those questions that were sent to the Cabinet of Ministers by the factions of the Supreme Council. First question. What steps are being taken by the government to increase cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union in the energy field? The energy sector is a key priority for cooperation between Ukraine and the EU. The government is pleased with the progress made in the five strategic directions set out in the Memorandum of Understanding in the Energy Sector. Cooperation priorities include a project to synchronize Ukraine’s combined energy systems and Moldova’s European network of ENSO’s system operators. The Joint Declaration on the Modernization of the Gas Transport System, signed on March 23, 2009, also remains an important priority. This project is the most economically advantageous compared to other projects, will allow for enhanced security of gas supply to Europe, and will significantly increase transit volumes. We're working on the development of a techno-economic basis for a modernization project, and we're counting on this autumn for the support of international financial organizations to come up with concrete projects. Ukraine's membership in energy co-operation is evidenced by its accession to the practical dimension of the further integration of energy markets in Ukraine and the EU and its accession to European policies aimed at enhancing energy stability and security. Ukraine's commitment to energy co-operation has become an integral part of the overall process of reform in the energy sector of Ukraine, both in terms of the adaptation of EU legislation and the modernisation of the fuel and energy complex. Next question. How is the problem of illegal coal mining, such as mining, addressed? By order of April 11, this year, number 60 for the Ministry of Energy. Coal has been created by a working group to develop measures to prevent unauthorized use in the field of carbon economy, with the participation of representatives of the State, the State Department, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service of Ukraine and the Donetské, the Lugansk District Administrations. A proposal has been considered to increase liability for unsanctioned coal production and to simplify the existing procedure for obtaining permits to legalize production. As a result of the meetings, the Ministry developed a draft decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, some of the issues of small mines, which was submitted on 19 May 2001 to the interested central authorities of the executive branch of the Donetské and Lugansk Administration. In addition, what I want to say is that the coal and mining design institutes are developing special mining projects on small mines in the Lugansk region, and the number of such projects is 20. Next question. What steps are being taken by the Ministry to liberalize the coal market? Ministry specialists have developed the concept of introducing a market-based form of coal sales. The main objective of the concept is to justify the economic adequacy of the development of the carbon trade form in order to ensure the competitiveness of the Ukrainian economy by achieving a balance of interests between consumers and producers and increasing the investment attractiveness of the coal sector. In the medium term, the market price-making mechanism for coal production, simplifying and shortening the purchase and sale of coal products for public enterprises will allow the market to be marketed. Taking into account the projected carbon deficit in the world’s markets, this will allow an average of 15-20 percent of coal prices to be raised in a competitive environment, thus reducing the level of carbon footprint and thereby reducing the amount of funds allocated from the State budget to support the coal sector. Exchange trade should also increase the investment attractiveness of coal companies by achieving transparency in the production and pricing mechanism. According to previous estimates, investment growth can be increased by 10 to 15 percent. To date, work is under way on the approval and approval of a draft order by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve the concept of transition to a market-based form of coal sales. Next question. What is the structure of energy generation in Ukraine today, depending on its extraction technology, heat plants, hydropower plants, nuclear power plants, renewable energy sources, including solar power plants, wind power stations, biofuels and thermal installations? But what is the forecast for the development of the national energy system for 2015 and 2030 that the government can make, taking into account the irreversibility of exhausting domestic generating power and increasing electricity consumption each year? I'm informing you that the global energy-generating capacity of Ukraine's energy-generating stations on January 1st of this year was 53 million kilowatts, 51 percent of which belong to thermal block power stations, 26 percent to nuclear power stations, 10 to hydropower stations and hydroaccumulating stations, 14 percent to thermal power plants, blocks of stations and other objects. Along with this capacity, 53 million kilowatts, with the exception of conservative capacity, as well as the power grids that are in the process of reconstructing and modernizing, have a capacity of 47 million kilowatts ready to operate. So I'm going to say, today, the maximum energy consumption is 20.7-21 million. So the number of existing blocks, the capacity doubles today's needs and winters as well. In winter, our needs make up the maximum that was observed, 32 million. I'm reminding you, we have 47 ready to operate. Over the past year, 188 billion kilowatts of hours were produced, including 47 per cent in nuclear power stations, GES and hydroaccumulative plants, 6.9 per cent in thermal power stations, and 41.5 per cent in heat power plants, and 4 per cent in block stations and utility TECs. The total output of wind power stations is 5.4 million kilowatt-hours according to the 2011 National Action Plan for the implementation of the 2010-2011 Economic Reform Programme, the Ministry has been adjusting Ukraine's energy strategy for the period up to 2030, approved by Order 145 of the Cabinet of Ministers since 2006. A basic strategy is to increase energy production by 6 per cent in 2011, and nearly twice in 2030. With this paper on changes to the strategy, it is predicted that a fraction of nuclear electricity will be equal to half of all production in the future, and an increase on the other side will take place at the expense of solar and wind power stations. Our legislation – to stimulate electricity generation from renewable sources and alternative energy – is the most progressive legislation in Europe, according to experts. And we already have a number of investor queries about wind and solar power plants. Today, experimentally, let's say, but industrial production is being done -- the solar power plant in Crimea 7.5 megawatt "Rodnikova" is being built, two more, the total technical conditions that investors from solar and wind power plants have been asked to build on Crimea alone is 4.5 million kilowatt-hours. Mainly, it is a challenge for the state energy sector to build strong networks to ensure the integration of alternative sources into Ukraine’s combined energy system and the appropriate dissipation and reservation of these energy sources. [[It's, first of all, "Ukrenergo."]] Next question. What steps are being taken by the government to regulate the issue of consumer integration into electricity networks? With a view to resolving the question of the integration of consumer electricity into electricity networks and gas facilities, into gas distribution networks, the Mine Coal has developed a draft Ukrainian Law on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the organization of payment of services provided by natural monopolies. The bill was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and was then considered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine by registration number 4420. And on February 2, this year, the bill was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But in view of the fact that the whole Ukrainian Law on Urban Settlements was adopted after that, it was March 12, 2011. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel and Energy has considered the differences and contradictions that have arisen in the proposed project and this project has been removed from consideration for the second reading. Today, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has established a working group with the participation of representatives of Minernergogil, NCRE, Mini infrastructure, consulting companies and public councils. And there's going to be a finalization of the bill, given what was adopted by the City Activities Act. Next question. Is there an assessment of the current state of safety of the active nuclear power grids? What are the government's plans for further exploitation and development of nuclear energy, taking into account the events in Japan at the Fukushima-1 nuclear power station? The nuclear energy of Ukraine is a static sector for the economy of the country, which has been operating steadily, safely and producing about 50 percent of the total electricity production of Ukraine for the last decade to meet the needs of the population and sectors of the economy. Since Ukraine’s independence as a state, recognizing its high responsibility to its people and to the world community for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, it has put in place programmes to improve security in the functioning of the energy cloud. Work on enhancing the safety of the AES is carried out on the basis of a consistent implementation of safety programmes, each of which is based on results, takes into account safety analysis reports and advanced experience in nuclear technology. The main programmes that have already been implemented on nuclear facilities are the Integrated Nuclear Power Cloud Improvement Modernization Program, the Nuclear Power Plants Safety Concept, the Safety Programme after the launch of HAES-2/RAES-4. By the way, this project, in the opinion of the creditors, is the EBRD and Euroat, such a project is implemented and is the most successful project in Europe among those that have been implemented. There is also a Comprehensive Integrated Energy Security Program for Ukrainian Nuclear Power Plants. The level of safety of Ukrainian nuclear power plants has undergone an international assessment, which is determined that if the planned safety measures are completed, they will meet internationally recognized standards. The safety assessment of active nuclear power plants was carried out in 2007-2010 as part of the joint project MAGATE-Ukraine European Commission. The project carried out 15 expert missions covering all four nuclear power stations. 92 foreign experts from 20 countries participated in these missions. As well as 32 full - time associates of MAGATE. In 2010, a comprehensive four-way program was completed, according to the working standards of MAGATE. These are the directions: AES project security, AES operational security, third, radioactive waste management and AES out of operation, and fourth, nuclear and radiation safety regulatory issues. A final report on the implementation of a joint project on nuclear safety assessment of Ukrainian nuclear power plants was submitted to Ukraine and the European Commission in Brussels on May 28 of last year. At present, a comprehensive program to increase the safety of nuclear power plants in Ukraine is being reviewed to complement it with corrective measures to prevent accidents, similar to those at the Focusima-1 nuclear power station. This week, the President of the National Atomic Energy Company, Nedashkovsky, is on his way to Japan, where this is the very subject of a scientific and practical conference. And with the generalization of this experience, there will be additions, changes to the programs that work. I would also like to inform the National Deputies that a comprehensive anti-accident nuclear safety training was conducted at the Zaporez nuclear power station in May. In September of this year, there are plans to conduct interbranch, with the participation of other ministries, nuclear safety training on all sites. Next question. How are coal plans being implemented for household needs? Today, according to article 43 of Ukraine’s Mining Law, the number of people entitled to coal is 138,800, and the amount of coal consumed is 771,8,000 tons. In fact, in 5 months 2011, 98,000 people in the category were provided with domestic fuel, which was exported to 387,000,700 tons of coal, accounting for 112.5 percent. Well, the actual majority was exported in May -- 81.7 thousand. So more than half a year, more than half a year's work is done. We're confident that by the heating season, all the steamers and active workers will be provided with domestic fuel. Next question. What are the prospects for increasing natural gas production in Ukraine, particularly on the Azov and Black Sea shelf? With a view to sustaining Ukraine’s economy and increasing the state’s energy security, we need to speed up the solution to the country’s sustainable supply of hydrocarbon resources. It is quite obvious that today this is an increase in the production of hydrocarbons, especially the development of the Black Sea and Asian Seas aquaculture sector under the rational use of available exploration stocks of hydrocarbons and the growth of geological exploration activities and the continued support of domestic enterprises that do work in seawater, both in the sense of improving the active system of spraying and legislative acts that define investment policy and, accordingly, attractiveness. There is a potential for a significant increase in oil and gas production in the Black Sea and the Azov Seas. Clearly, significant capital investments are needed to carry out tasks and plans to increase the production of gas and oil alone, which are difficult to provide only on the basis of its own resources. This is not the focus of interested central executives, such as increasing the volume and efficiency of investments. Today, negotiations are well under way with the Lukoil stock company on the exploration and extraction of oil and gas on the Black Sea shelf. The Ministry has negotiated and prepared a project for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to agree to a joint agreement between Naftogazu's daughter and Shell's daughter. This arrangement will soon be considered by the government, and the work will be completed in practical terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u5	Let's do it this way, dear fellows. It turns out that this is a question for the deputy minister, he answers himself and everything. If you have a question for the Cabinet of Ministers and a representative of the Ministry present, please sign up for a question. Half an hour. Please. Sign up for questions. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Black Sea, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u6	Please give the floor to the Deputy Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u7	Who, who? Ah, Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u8	I have a question. Repeatedly in this session hall, we tried to adopt laws that would order coal-based populations of those areas that live in the mines. This may be the case, for example. The shaft ceased to exist, the mine didn't work, and the veterans stayed, the pensioners stayed, their widows stayed. That's one social problem. And your question is professional. It's not like Ukraine's entire territory is gassed. There's a big problem with solid fuel, coal. Please tell your department, the ministry, how it tries, will solve this problem, plan and supply of coal to the population, and supply coal to the population. How is it decided, and what is the price? Is this price policy changing or not changing? Because it's a very acute problem for villages, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u9	Thank you. On the first part of the question, Your Honor, you yourself said that we are only doing what the law requires, and we are doing conscientiously, and we are confident that this year we will. Yes, it is in Donbas that many of the population are not gassed. Today, there is not a very effective system for selling coal to the population on a commercial basis beyond what is prescribed by law. But coal production, its quality, its class composition, its availability in the state balance, allows for the supply of a population and quality coal, and a sufficient quantity. So I don't think the prices are going to be higher than the ones that buy and supply coal under 43 articles of the Mining Law. I think we need to step up our work with administrations, that is, areas, cities and district administrations of the areas that need it. But coal is in balance and beyond what is provided by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u10	Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u11	Please give the word to a colleague at the Chapel Volodymyr faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u12	Vladimir Kapliyenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u13	Thank you very much. Dear reporter! The parliamentary group of Reforms for the Future asked you in writing about the energy strategy available to protect Ukraine's national interests, is it or is it not? And second. What is the structure of the electric generation in the distribution between the atom, wind, gas, hydro, sun and energy. The branches? Or perhaps exotic fields, such as the use of the earth’s heat. I'd like to remind you that there's a 500 percent benefit. And the second question. Specifically. Why is exportable electricity, which goes abroad from Ukraine, twice as cheap as in Ukraine’s internal market? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u14	Thank you. In terms of the structure of the power production, I reported. That's 26 percent of the nuclear power set, 51 at the heat plant, 10 at the hydropower plant. In our country, there is no geothermal potential that can be used in the industrial process for industrial production. the production and production of electricity. But the work is going very quickly and quickly and quickly and according to European standards for the evaluation of wind potential. Monitoring is done at 90 meters high, temperature is fixed, wind speed, air pay, and so forth. An investment project, or hydropotential, is being developed. An estimate of the amount of electricity that can be produced, and investors choose the best conditions for themselves in terms of getting high-tariff benefits. As far as electricity exports are concerned. Electricity is being sold today in the direction of Western Europe with a maximum capacity of 550 megawatts from the "urban island" of what is called synchronous labor. This electricity is sold in Europe by national operators who buy electricity on a general basis, and not cheaper. But she's something.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u15	The People's Deputy is Mankovsky, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Alexander Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u17	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u18	Dear rapporteur, there is little energy in your responses. You add it, please. I am also interested in my voters, what prospects for gas stocks in the light of the 2011 and 2012 winters, what is the situation with gas tariffs today. My constituents are interested in the cost and holiday price of enterprises, utilities, the population; what guarantee of tariff stability. The next issue that is always present at receptions is the visibility of rural areas. What's the problem: two streets, one hundred yards, three lights, and a project to do is worth 50,000. Can't the Ministry of Finance and I solve this simple question with you today? Ilyich's Lamp. No light bulbs, no Ilyich. Therefore, I very much ask you to take this matter for special control.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u19	Thank you. It's about lighting. This is really a social demand for such, let's say, a service that improves the quality of life. And to level the quality of life in cities, in villages, is a shared task of government, of all branches of government. But when it comes to lighting, it's not an energy supply function, it's a usage function. Today, there's a kilowatt-hour tax that's used for lighting, and it allows, at the expense of a kilowatt-hour economy, to make an investment-intensive project on lighting itself. If you do this on the basis of energy saving devices for automated lighting, it will, well, effectively, serve people for a long time. Today, there is no expenditure on lighting in the investment programs of district energy companies. But if local communities are talking about allowing the use of electricity lines that already exist on the streets to share, share and use these lighting supports, these issues can be resolved and also contribute to lowering the costs of lighting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u20	Yes, the People's Deputy Korge, the BUT faction, the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u21	Please give the floor to my colleague, Mr. Dmitrovich Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u22	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u23	The Timoshenko Block, the Reform and Order Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly addressed the Prime Minister at the end, and first to the Minister, and then to Kyivoblanergo earlier, with one very relevant question. Today, in a rural area where electricity is shut down, especially with the arrival of new power, there is, well, too regularly. For example, in February 22, there were 22 shut-offs, a little less in March, and sometimes more. Well, in particular, I get answers that you're okay, you're the third category, the village, you can be disconnected. So the incubators got cold, and many of the heats were just knocked out and so forth. Can you please state the order or not? The last incident, literally on Monday, the weekend, the repair crews shut down at 8:30 p.m. and turned on at 6: 00 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u24	Complete the question. Bondarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u25	After that, by the way, double the rate. Because on the weekend plus the fieldwork. But they made double tariffs, and people were tormented all day from 8:30 to 6:00, for no reason at all. What must be done to sustain the rural population’s electricity supply?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u27	Thank you. This is, indeed, a very important problem, and the main thing is, the distinguished national MP, you said, without warning, people get annoyed by what they don't. The National Commission, the Ministry, very strict demands will continue to increase responsibility. We have state energy inspection, and it can and should provide regulations on infringements of consumer rights. The third category allows, in an emergency, an end to energy supply up to the age and a suspension to the repair plan only if the previous announcement is made, a warning to consumers. In cities this is easier to do: there is a JECK, there is an approach, there is an announcement, and so on. I also saw these announcements in Kiev. In rural areas, our energies are more complex, but I believe that the observation and criticism is fair, we should not lynch, work with the heads of the country, the population, the announcement, the media in general, and we have much less complaints. I count that people, if they see that there's network damage, but there's people working there, they understand and they complain about it, they complain that there's no power outage left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u28	Oleg Easy, non-faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u29	Thank you. To my firm conviction, the main threat to the state's energy security is the cable gas agreements Ukraine has today. I want to remind you that the first agreements were signed in 2009 by Timoshenko, Putinim, the second agreements in Kharkiv Medvedev Yanukovic. I have a question for the government, obviously not to the Deputy Minister of Finance, but to the government. What is the government doing to break these cable gas agreements that are smothering Ukraine’s energy, economic and national independence? What does the authorities do to bring responsibility to those who actually put Ukraine’s national independence at risk? Because the $500 gas price per thousand cubes is inconceivable to consumers or to industry or to private consumers. Why are these agreements still open today, or are they in court, or are they in unilateral order? Why is it still not the answer of those who put the smudge on the neck of the Ukrainian people?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u30	Thank you. Your Honor, it is difficult for me to answer the question of how the negotiations are going, how progress is being made. But I agree with you that difficult conditions. But those contracts that are there need to be made to secure the gas economy as a commodity. Secondly, even if we don't like it, we have to do it differently, but today, we have to make arrangements to be seen as reliable partners and the Russian Gazprom Federation and the European Society. As for responsibility, let me not answer, because I have no reliable information, and I do not want to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u31	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u32	Yuri Carmazin. Your Honor, I have two questions. First. I'm convinced that Ukraine's most important energy security is being done by Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, because he's helping us jump off an energy Russian gas needle. That's my question. First. What is the difference between the cost of own-generation gas and the cost of public holidays? That's the first question. It's more, really, for the DA's office and the Security Service if we had it, but for now. That's the first question. And the second question. Our potential for solar energy is colossal. You know, the average amount of total solar radiation that goes up one metre of surface into Ukraine is 1.5 kilowatt-hour squared in the south of Ukraine. And we're not doing anything to introduce solar energy, but thanks to Putin, we have to implement this -- we have huge reserves there. What is being done by the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u33	It was the government that started the work last year to update the network development scheme first of all in the South of Ukraine: Zaporezka, Hersonska, Mikolayivska, Odessa, and Crimea were understood. In order to absorb the electricity produced by solar power plants, we need to develop not only the network of 110 kilovolts with the connection of the station itself, but the highway networks of 330 over Crimea can be defined by the project and the line of 750. Because on the one hand, you have to take electricity at a time when it's being produced. But then there was darkness, consumption is, and it's peaking. And you have to go on these networks from the Crimea Peninsula, let's say electricity went on a day, let's say.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u34	Well, in Kiev, it takes more land and harder. And when you don't have this electricity, you have to give that region electricity that's produced in heat, atoms and hydropower plants. So this construction is pretty big. But we already have previous recommendations, technical and economic justifications. Today, investment programs have a separate license, such as Crimenergo, Odessaoblenergo, and Mikolaiwoblanergo. All of the solar power plants that are now working projects are built on the basis of investments by host entities. They will be members of the energy industry, but they will not be part of the state energy sector. The price difference for gas, it's imaginary, it doesn't have it in its formation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u35	Wolitz, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u36	Dear Deputy, please tell me how many lavas have been put into service since the beginning of the year and how many metres have been put into service. How long do you plan to cut down a lion by the end of the year and turn meters into operation? That's the first question. And the second question. And the second question is how long they've closed and how long we're planning to shut down the mine, we know that time is not Soviet. However, there are new mines in the government's plans this year, where, when and how many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u37	Thank you. Well, first of all, on the bench. As at the beginning of last week, I have 35 new lavas in the industry, and 29. Productivity, or lava load, as professional miners say, is more than 1,000 tons. And not only by the quantity, but by increasing productivity, this increase is now more than 2,000 tons per day. In fact, this is the reason that coal mining in Ukraine today, regardless of its forms of ownership, has increased from 9.7 per cent last year. The needs of steel energy and good export positions are fully met. But we talked about domestic fuel, we can sell it under the law, and we can sell it on commercial terms. On the walk. The 1200-foot walk was for May, and we went 150 meters ahead of the plan. In May, due to a lack of funding, a few paces have fallen, because in April we had to adopt an increase in the miners' tariff rate rates, which is what we did. However, the price of coal for energy has not been fully offset by the increase. So energy reserves are temporary lending, and coal has been applied. And here's the rest of the problem lying on. But the annual tour plan, the pace, has been implemented in five months today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u38	Novovolinsky, I'm not now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u39	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u40	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. A great reporter, all aware of the consequences of the disaster at the Focusima-1 AES in Japan. In view of that, I have two questions. First. Is there an assessment of the current state of security of all without excluding the existing nuclear power grids in Ukraine? And the second. What are the government's plans for the further exploitation and development of nuclear energy in Ukraine in view of the world's nuclear energy trends? I mean what's happening in Europe right now: Germany, other countries that are making decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, I've reported that nuclear safety controls happen all the time. Work was started in 2007, completed in 2010 for a comprehensive evaluation. We got a positive conclusion, but that's not the end of the job. This job is going to be happening, new stages, and they're going to take into account the nuclear community's so-called stress tests. There's work to do. We are in time for the fact that since this event in Fukushima, the Ukrainian side, experts have not missed any international action that has been discussed, to make security decisions. And I said that today, the president of a company in Fukushima, there's a science conference or something like that. So it is planned that, according to the plans of the Supreme Council Committee of Fuel Energy Issues in our country, public hearings will be held, and will be discussed, and then prepared in the plenary. And the committee discusses, sets the date, let's say, the agenda and the reports. This hearing, according to the MPs I've heard, is worth doing after the programs, the stress tests, and we'll be determined over time, the volume and the funding for these measures. And I want to add that the issue of nuclear safety is also being resolved during the course of work after the deadline for guaranteed exploitation. We got a certificate of compliance for the continuation of the operation, including we understand what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u42	Ivan Hare, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u43	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear reporter! The legitimate truth is that the primary task of any authority is to ensure the security of the country, particularly the energy one. I dare say that the government has no energy strategy for Ukraine. There's nothing wrong with safety in the nuclear field. Just one example to illustrate my statement. Over the course of three years, the planned number of building energy blocks on the AES ranged from 22 to 6 blocks. The government wants it, and the majority of parliaments support it, to build the Hmelnicka nuclear station at the second generation reactors, the Russians, who are not safe enough to withstand any criticism. Yesterday, the parliamentary majority at the hands of Mr. Chechtov refused to hold parliamentary hearings on energy strategy and safety at nuclear stations. How do you appreciate this step by the parliamentary majority? If you can't answer that, let the Deputy Prime Minister or someone else. But how can I tell you that the parliaments of many Europeans.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u44	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u45	But what I'm going to say is that the parliaments of many democratic countries have considered security in the nuclear field, the issue of energy strategy, precisely in view of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u46	Thank you, thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u47	Dear National Deputies! I've mentioned in previous answers to questions that have come, that a nuclear safety project has been implemented, the so-called missile program, it's the HA-2 blocks, and Rowensky-4, it's the Russian faiths. [[Helicopter No. 2 Atomic]] This work programme was estimated to be the most successful project in Europe to improve the safety of nuclear stations, recognized by experts. I'm saying there were 22 international organizations. Well, if I can't convince you, I'm just.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u48	Yes, please, a bilateral dialogue. Did you answer the questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u49	Answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u50	Yeah. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u51	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Horoshevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u52	Goroskevitch, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u53	Good afternoon! I completely disagree with the previous speaker on energy security. What's more, today's government, and the ministry, including, have taken a lot of steps to equip a tech firm called BlackMornaftogas. Please tell me, what prospects do we have for oil production, especially on the Black Sea and the Azov Sea shelf?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u54	Well, the main focus there will be on the development of the Nameless and Saturday's gas and oil deposits. By 2015, oil production is expected to be 2.9 million tonnes, accounting for condensate gas, and the increase in the production of BlackMornaftogas gas will be 1 billion per year. But to support that kind of dynamic, we need, well, the general rule -- to extract at a very good rate, we need to have two or three more scouts, and by drilling, we have the next reserves, we need gas. We have a bit of a backlog, but this year we've already adopted a 20 to 25 percent increase in individual drilling sites with the aim of introducing additional drills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u55	Valerius Kamchatny, group of Reforms for the Future. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please give the floor to the colleague of the Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u57	National Deputy Caplienne, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u58	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The next question. In their reply to my previous question on behalf of the group, they said that there are no energy security strategies for Ukraine to date. I'd like to get an answer. That working group that is currently working at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, have you found a term that will work out the long-term prospects for the security of the state? And the second question. I wanted to draw your attention to the advice that, today, the Institute of Social Projects has presented in the territory of Ukraine the so-called "future building" is a new building that generates green tariffs and is able to transmit green tariffs to electricity grids and is completely autonomous. Note this. And on a heat pump. I would like to remind you once again that we are not using existing powers in Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u59	Honorable National MP in terms of strategy. The strategy is, it's an active document and it's pretty good, I'll say, because since the adoption of this strategy, except that you couldn't predict the economic and financial crisis and the decrease in electricity consumption, everything else in the forecasting part was very close to the values of defined strategies was happening in the state. But today's task is not just actual data to restore and place emphasis, but the main thing is to identify not only what can be forecasting, but to emphasize what needs to be done with regard to prioritization. Because first of all, we have to change the pattern of production by source, this is to increase significantly, up to 5 percent at least, the volume of electricity production from renewable sources; second of all, we have a question at the time, Ukraine has made certain commitments to adapt to the requirements of the European Union, and we have to take this into account in the strategy. And that's the second reason we need to update the strategy. And about energy conservation. Yes, I think it's a very significant reserve, or energy supply locally on objects and energy conservation in general. It's not going to give any significant advantages with regard to the balance of the state, but it's important both in terms of the economy and in terms of the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u60	Thank you. We're done here, dear colleagues, an hour of questions to the government. I thank the Czechs, Sergey Mihajlovich, thank you to the Cabinet of Ministers, who participated in the "hour of questions to the Government" today. I think it's the honourable colleagues that I'm going to address the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with a proposal to respond to the interaction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is positive for government legislative initiatives, and on Friday to plan the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in such a way that the entire Cabinet of Ministers will be on the Supreme Council for an hour and there will be communication. Otherwise, what I've already said is that the government bill will not be considered. I think we'll have some cooperation then. Ivan Stojko, microphone, please. John Stoick's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u61	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, radio listeners! Indeed, yesterday, for example, we were checked with our national deputies for a certificate. And by coming in here, let's say, through the door, he was standing on a line, as always. When I approached him, he suggested that I show him my identification. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I didn't mean as you said, I didn't push anything like that. So I ask in front of all of Ukraine, in front of all the journalists, in front of my colleagues, to correct what was said and my last name is called, as if I were hitting someone or saying bad things. So I'm asking from this rostrum right now that it's probably being refuted because it wasn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u62	I'm asking the regulatory committee to consider this issue, get the videos. We have video surveillance going on. And, dear colleagues, I think these are the cases that the Supreme Council should conclude. I want to do it again. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to tell you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Honourable National MPs, two factions -- "BUT" factions -- "Fatherland", "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" faction -- require interruptions or announcements. Who will make the statement? Yuri Prokopchuk? Please, Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u63	Dear Head, colleagues, voters! Today, a joint press conference will be held at the National Press Club of the United States of America on Friday, which will be held, literally, on the occasion of the famous international legal firm Cavington & Berling and BDO, which will quote: "the detection of political motives behind the criminal persecution of Yulia Timoshenko, in particular the representatives of the companies mentioned, will discuss the results of their investigation of charges against the former Prime Minister of Ukraine, previously reported by Plato Kacheriz, who was generously paid from the pockets of Ukrainian taxpayers." [[United ……]] [[Let me remind you, that's 70 million dollars.]] Cummington and Berling is one of America's most authoritative law firms. The former partner of this firm, Eric Holder, now holds the office of Attorney General of the United States of America, a senior official in the U.S. legal system of Barack Obama. In turn, BDO is the fifth largest company in the world. BDO works in 119 countries around the world and has 1,000 82 representations. The publicity has already been obtained by a letter addressed to Bruce Baird, president of Cawington and Berling, to Plato Kacheriz, in the framework of the investigation, requesting, quote, "some documents and evidence to which Kacheriz is voiced in his reports. Cummington and Berling asked for a direct language: "to provide additional materials for which a request has been sent, either directly or by way of getting them from your client. If you can't do that -- writes Cawington -- we demand that you exclude from your report the chapters relating to the Kyoto Protocol and the Opel Combo cars, which, without supporting evidence, do not cost the paper on which they are printed. We all work in a system of justice that appreciates transparency and expects conclusions to be backed up by evidence or logical reasons. If you refuse to provide these materials or to withdraw your report, I can only conclude that your report is a lie, and the biased opinion of your client is in the letter. – The press conference will provide convincing evidence that the so-called Timoshenko case was totally falsified by the current Ukrainian authorities and is nothing more than the political persecution of the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko. Again and again, we claim: No political persecution, no glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u64	Honorable national MPs, according to the Rules, have 30 minutes on Friday to make a request. Allow me to make the parliamentary inquiries that have come and are registered in the proper order. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Gennady Zadirk to the President of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the All-U.S. Radio "Melodia" on the issue of disqualification of the use of language channels. I'm betting on a motion to support the request. [[11:09:14]] For-40 Request not supported. Alexander Pecklusenka to the President of Ukraine to resolve the issue of the further operation of the mining company Mineral, located in the Pologov region of Zaporozhye. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:09:45]] For 249 Request supported. I'm voting on a motion to refer a request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:10:05]] For 247 Request accepted. Irina Herashchenko to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on repayment before the National Radio Company of Ukraine of debts for contracts made to explain the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vasila Wondernova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the incomplete payment of budgetary subsidies for farmed and sold livestock during 2008-2011. Victoria Demionczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inadmissibility of the closure of the special public education institution I-II. degrees No. 4 of Michael Olefirenko of the City Council of Kirovograd. Vladimir Leshchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the terms of the current repair of the Coryukowka-Holma-Seminovka road in Chernigiv region. Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of the activities of the State Mining Company in the area of money management. Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for enhanced control over the disposal of weapons, military equipment and ammunition, with a view to reducing the threat of technological disasters. Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney-General of Ukraine, on gross violations of Ukrainian legislation by the Director-General of the National Historical and Ethnographic Reserve "Prejaslav" by Paul Longshia, whose actions may soon lead to the loss of Ukraine's unique acquisition of our "Pereaslav" history. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to strengthen control over the comprehensive disposal of unfavourable and banned chemicals, with a view to protecting the life and health of the country's population, ensuring environmental safety and protecting the environment. Catherine Vaschuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the sharp deterioration of the food security of the country and the need for urgent development at the highest national level of a comprehensive food security programme for Ukrainian citizens. Lilia Grigorovich to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the report on the implementation of the National Programme for the Development and Functioning of Ukrainian for 2004-2010. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the capture of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Michael Church and the Council of Saint-Vosnesen in the town of Prejaslav-Hmelnicki, from which two museums were thrown out – the Museum of Clothing and the Museum of Architecture of the times of Kiev Russia; the next victim could be the Museum of Diorama "The Battle for Dnipro in October 1943". Lilia Grigorovich to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on bribery at the National University of Food Technology. Mikoli Derkach to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the complex of laboratory and postgraduate and student dormitory at the Dnipropetrov National University of Olesia Potter. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the public education school I-II graduated in the village of the city type Chernykhs of the Žitomir region. Mikoli Derkac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of the socio-economic issues of the city of Petihatka in the Dnipropetrovsk region with the aim of ensuring proper preparation for the marking of 125 years from the date of its establishment. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the effectiveness of State security control over food products sold in domestic supermarkets. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the health of citizens and for the prejudice of the development of diseases associated with the adverse effects of summer heat. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the issue of the allocation of housing funds to the Ukrainian citizen Sergey Sweden in connection with the sinking of his parents' house during the construction of Dniprodjnski GES. Alexander Shepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the construction of the bridge in the village of Terel Zacarpatsk. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Kyiv City Head for the construction of the left-hand line of the city of Kiev with the aim of improving transport connections between the people of the Right-wing region and other areas of Kiev. Peter Pisarczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the work from the Stry River fortification in the district of Lviv. The Group of Greenewecko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the economic activity of the State Enterprise Kuchurganski and its privatisation. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide in the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2011 for Ukraine for the allocation of the funds necessary for the payment of compensation to the heirs of the deceased investors in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for the Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the inaction of the higher and central executive authorities, law enforcement authorities on the issue of the payment of arrears on the payroll of employees of the National Shareholder Company Nadra Ukraine, Poltavanaftogasgeology, and on the need to take radical measures to deal with former and current members of the labour community. Sergija Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the reconstruction of the route through the railway line on the street of the Skuri road in the city of Bila Church of Kyiv region in 2011. [[Mushroom Bridge]] Sergei Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on passenger transport by river in the city of Herson. Sergia Tereshuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State Budget to improve the water supply of residents of the town of Žasków Cherkas region. Sergey Chrapova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the absence of land allocated to the Public Shareholders' Association of Orzhenikidev Mining and Enrichables, which has resulted in a partial halt to mining equipment and threatens to stop working and de facto abandonment of 5.5 thousand combined workers and 48,000 Ordjonikidze residents respectively. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of immunological drugs for preventive vaccination in the Chernigian region. [[Komar, Mankovsky and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the payment of the budget grant to agricultural societies. [[Komar, Mankovsky and others]] Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the appeal of members of the Yaroslavi Rural Council of the Mlinov Region of Rivena to suspend the Lutsk-Baboloka and Lutsk-Boremec route. Jury Karmazin's decision to work as Prime Minister of Labour of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Director-General of the State Administration of Rail Transport of Ukraine, Head of the Federation of Professional Communities of Ukraine, Head of the Council of Railways and Transport Engineers of Ukraine for the creation of an integrated commission for the settlement of labour disputes between the administration of the State-owned enterprise, and the labour units of the travel brigades, which resulted from the illegal withdrawal of the law governing the use of the general director of the State-owned administration of the railway transport system of Ukraine, Vladimir Kozak from 11 May 2011. [[only 14,000 workers]] Vladimir Leschchenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the provision of wheelchairs with electric power in 2011. Mikoli Shershun to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the conservation of the activities of the Ravenna District Foundation for the Support of Individual Housing in the Village. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of modern X-rays by the Vladarsko-Volinsky Central District Hospital in Žitomirsk. Alexander Schepeleva to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the urgent use of measures to provide medical facilities in western Ukraine with an orphan against snake venom. Grenevetsky’s to Ukraine’s minister of health for the transfer of corneas to Ukraine Jury Karmazin to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the non-admission of violations of the ecological, cultural, health and other rights of Odessa residents, other citizens expressed in the destruction of the natural-indictment fund as a result of the planned construction and operation of the closed transformational substation 110/6 kilovolt Marzaliivska in the Central Park of Culture and the rest of the name Taras Grigorovich Shevchenka in the city of Odessa. Vladimir Vizewski to the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the provision of information Anatolia Yagoferova to the head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service regarding the application of the Ukrainian Tax Code. Anatoly Yagoferov to the head of the Open Shareholders' Association for providing information on the receipt of advance payments for telecommunications services. Vladimir Tolstenka to the head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission on the collective appeal of residents of Vinnica regarding possible violations of current legislation in the setting of heat tariffs. Jurija Gnatkević to the head of the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters for obstructing the execution of the Order of the Supreme Special Court for the defences of the defendant in Simferopol Mikoli Larionova, a National Deputy of Ukraine, because of the unlawful refusal of Judge Mikhail Billousov to allow them to know the materials of the criminal case. Viacheslav Koval and Alexander Cnervolenka to the Supreme Council of Justice, the Supreme Qualification of Judges of Ukraine on the use of measures and verifications of the circumstances set out in the address of the resident of Dniprodrzeńské Oleg Yasenczuk, with the aim of eliminating violations of the current legislation, bringing to justice the disciplinary responsibility of the judge, the head of the Dniprovsky District Court of Dniprodryńsk Valerija Gniezdzilova, and initiating, on grounds of availability, the question of the release of the appointed judge from office in connection with the breach of an oath. Andrija Pavlovsky and Yuri Karmazin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine for the organization of a review of the gross violation of the constitutional right of property of more than 500 inhabitants of the village of Novoleksandrovka Odessa Region, the illegal occupation by officials of the Society with limited liability of "Iskra-South" by the property of the specified citizens for the promotion of officials of the internal affairs bodies of the Ananiy district, the avoidance of taxes by specified persons and other violations, the use of appropriate measures. Groups of National Deputies to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, the State Agency for Water Resources of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the collective appeal of the Oasis community organization and the deputies of the Nizhin district council of the Chernigiv region on the comprehensive verification of the sale procedure of the water fund of the Karlova pond and the regime for the use of land adjacent to the rate of the territory, thus preventing residents of the village of Talalayevka and the surrounding population from using this water resource to rest or run the household. [[Bondik, Plannics, and Others]] Anatolia Matvienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the illegal criminal offence. Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General’s Office of Ukraine, Kyiv City State Administration, for not allowing illegal construction of the coastal zone of Lake Telbin in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Boris Shiyanov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the abuse and corruption of the leadership of the State Architectural Building Control Inspectorate in the Lviv region. Valentina Matvieva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legal basis of the refusal of law enforcement authorities by residents of the Žitomir district of Raisi Sidorov in the violation of a criminal case involving the death of her son. Vasil Krawczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of systematic dissemination by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Victor Pshonka, of unreliable information regarding the leader of the political party of Yulia Timoshenko and the use of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine to politically prosecute the opposition. Victoria Demyanczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to execute the decisions of the Kirov district court of Kirovgrad by private firm Sagita. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegality of Odessa’s decision to change the status of all the general education and preschool institutions of Odessa in a bilingual manner, as opposed to the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation, resulting in the final destruction of education in Ukrainian in the city of Odessa. Eugene Wolinz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the results of the audit of the financial and economic activities of the city education department of the Kirov region of the Donetsk region. Eugene Zarkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service in Odessa, on the violation of the constitutional rights of residents of a town-type Sarat, Saratsk district of Odessa by local authorities. Vasila Wondernova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the non-application by the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities of actions concerning improper conduct of the credit union's management of the Christian Accord. John Hajc to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the delay in the investigation of criminal cases No. 50-4468 by the Dniprovsky District Authority of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in Kiev. Mikoli Schmidt to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the right of a deputy of the Yaszkow Village Council of the Preval region of the Luhansk region of Viktor the Infirmant to obtain the information necessary for the exercise of parliamentary powers. Irina Herashchenko and Olga Gerasimük to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of searching the apartment of Odessa Internet journalist Bogdan Osinski. Paul Silent to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal closure of Ukrainian School No. 27 in the city of Torez Donetsk. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the numerous violations of the current Ukrainian legislation by providing the citizens of the land for the construction and management of the private agriculture in the village of Sofia Borszagivka Kyivo-Svetoshinsky region of Kiev with the former head of the Sofia Borstagian Rural Council, Sergey Kremetz, his deputy to Les Kudrik and the Secretary of the Rural Council, Larisa Orotyuk, during 2006-2010, presented in the Report of the interim committee of the Sofia-Borstagian Council of the Sixth Council on the Legality of Providing Decisions for the Selection of Lands for the period 2006-2010. Sergey Tereshuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the full, comprehensive and objective investigation of the circumstances of the accident, which took place on 21 June 2008 in the city of Boyarka, resulting in the deaths of two persons and injuries of four persons. [[of which one child]] [[They're two kids.]] Ulysses Mistpane to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate consideration of the parliamentary appeal for the destruction of the Dnipro children's health complex located in the Obukhiv district of Kiev. Jurya Litvina to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Kyiv District Council, the Kyiv District State Administration, regarding the appeal of residents of hostels located on the street of Central, houses 14, 16, 20 in the village of Gora, the Borispil district of Kiev, asking them to help resolve the painful questions of privatization of their homes. Jaroslav Kendzior to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of a justification for spending by the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco, 918 000 dollars of budget for the production of a three-minute video and the definition of the performance of the "Mission of Ukraine - Known" company without applying the tender. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the involvement of the Prosecutor’s Office in the agricultural relations between the owners of the land rations of the village of New Lakes of the Zitomir region and the users of the landowners. [[Moses, Grigorovich, and others. Total 10 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the number of violations of current legislation by senior officials of Ukraine. [[Kožemakin, Pavlovsky Total 37 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the examination of the illegal actions of the executive authorities, the oppression and illegal persecution of the investor, the producer and the exporter of agricultural products, the Society with limited responsibility of the NIBULON Agricultural Enterprise. [[Jacinek, Zvarich. Total 12 deputies]] Olga Gerasimük and Irina Herashchenko are represented by the Attorney General of Ukraine, the prosecutor of Kyiv's city for the non-admission of the raiding and destruction of the pottery workshop in Kiev, 44th Street. Olga Gerasimük and Irina Heraszczenko are headed by the Kyiv City State Administration for the preservation of a pottery workshop in Kiev, 44th Street. Alexia Plotnikov to Kyiv City State Administration, General Directorate of Public Administration for the Management of the City of Kiev on the need for a comprehensive review of the collective appeal of residents of House No. 9A on the street of the Academic Tupoljevo District of Kiev on the need to equip the children's playground for summer rest in accordance with the Ukrainian Laws on the Welfare of Popular Locations and the "On the capital of Ukraine is the city of Kiev". Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine on the delay in payment of wages and other violations in the activities of the Gorill Company Zlatogor, Złotonosza. [[Drizzenka, Helmet, Prokopčuka]] Jaroslav Suhogo to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to verify the failure of the congregation to pay for the operation of the alienation of the Mercedes Bens 500 car to the Pension Fund by a citizen of Yatsenuk. Thus, honourable national deputies, 101 MPs have been asked. Dear colleagues, we only have the right to hear no more than two requests from one MP at a time. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing the question: a report by the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of censorship in the media, pressure on freedom of speech in Ukraine, and obstacles to the legitimate professional activities of journalists. Dear colleagues, the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna, will report. We need to set an order. In the same way as we listened to the reports, and the regulations were set for the previous reports, including on yesterday's report, the rules are proposed: for Irina Heratchenko's head report, up to 20 minutes, answers to questions, up to 10 minutes, and if necessary, statements from factions, in two minutes. No objections? So that's how we get into the rules. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, distinguished journalists! The Censorship Investigation TSC was created on July 1, 2010, primarily as a response to numerous press complaints about attempts to pressure the media. During the year, about 100 calls were made to the TSK from public organizations, journalists, trade unions, and about 50 requests were sent to the competent authorities by the TSK. During the entire work period, there were 10 meetings, including a joint TSC meeting with the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, with which we cooperated fruitfully. We invited about 50 people to our meeting. In part, I want to thank all the colleagues who worked on the Interim Investigation Commission, because despite our party differences, we all tried together to study every complaint and appeal, help the journalists, work together on drafts and initiatives. The TSK report was approved at a meeting of the commission on June 14. In doing so, the party of the regions signed this report with observations and objections, particularly, I will read them immediately that our colleagues in the Party of Regions think that in today's assessment of the situation of freedom of speech, there is often an emotional and political element, not a fact. It is emphasized that many complaints from journalists who came to the TSC have not been confirmed. The opposition is said to have free access to the air and that the Gongadze case is being investigated more effectively than today’s authorities. The opposition is much more critical of the situation with freedom of speech in Ukraine, and this is what I focus on in my report. I want to say what the outcome is. In general, the questions at the TSK meeting were registered and submitted to the Supreme Council six drafts of legislation, two of which have already been adopted, two of which are considered, two of us have just registered, and I think that these bills are an important summary of our joint work aimed at strengthening the protection of journalists. Similarly, we took an active part in the promotion of the Public Information Access Act and insisted on the agenda of the Nacrada Day Report on Television and Radio Broadcasting, which, by the way, reported in the Supreme Council for the first time in five years. As we analyze appeals and complaints, we express concern about the following trends. First. This is an increase in the number of obstacles to journalistic activity by the power structures. Nine similar cases, respected colleagues, occurred over the course of the year. The other one. In practice, it is impossible to protect journalists who have suffered professional duties that law enforcement authorities and courts are essentially refusing to open. Article 171 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which protects journalists from barriers to professional activity, is unfortunately not applied in Ukraine. According to the Attorney General’s Office, only one such fact was brought to trial during the year, and compensation was paid for beating up a journalist of 850 dollars. All other similar cases have been requalified and have not been brought to justice. The third, very resonant thing that concerns not only Ukrainian society, but also the world, is the lack of progress in investigating Vasil Klementiev's case. Four. And I, colleagues, would like to pay particular attention to this. Many complaints about the opacity of the National Council’s activities on television and radio. Fifth. This is an increase in economic pressure on the part of owners and management. And first of all, it's about community media and commercial media, which leads to conflict between groups. Six. Unmotivated release of critical journalists under reduction. Seven. This is a very important problem and a complex one: the full dependence of the municipal press on local authorities, which often simply sees these texts as property and tries to interfere with the work of the editors. And the problem that's already so loud is that there's no response of authority to media criticism. Of course, it would be unfair to say that all of these events occurred only in the last year, but today the number of conflict situations has increased. I give a lot of examples in our report, and you can get to know them. You've been given a report with similar signals that came, first of all, from the Hmelnicki, Cherkaske, Odesske, Donetskei, Kharkiv regions. Yes, the governor of the Hmelnicka district is teaching publicly, reading journalists for critical materials; the head of the Odessa government has been fighting the municipal media for a year and, in particular, the one in the Ukrainian-speaking area, one of the oldest newspapers published since 1917, the Black Sea News. Many complaints come from the Donetsk region, where the governor blames journalists for the negative image of the region, intervenes in the work of the editors. In general, I agreed that he accused journalists of infecting the Turkish boarding school with a windmill. The number of humiliations of journalists, unmotivated insults, and invalid statements to the press, including national MPs, is increasing. And unfortunately, respected colleagues have never received a proper response and condemnation from one party. But especially now is the case with journalists. Because the report will be unobjective and lopsided if we do not say that not only are politicians today and not just authorities, in fact, sometimes destroy journalism. Similarly, in journalism, respectable colleagues have been severely beaten by problems such as purchase materials, self - censorship, tabloidization of our media when they are turned into solid tabloids. Of course, authorities and politicians must protect journalists ’ right to information. But in the same way, the Constitution protects, honourable colleagues, today the right of every human being and the policy of private life, and we have to talk about it, because when such things happen, it simply leads to the ulgarization of Ukrainian media and humiliation and of Ukrainian journalists and the fall of the profession. But as I go back to the problems that the authorities and politicians are bringing into the profession today, I want to say that there are a lot of complaints that we have going on with the employees of the Department of Public Protection. I have already said that about nine cases have been recorded in such an incorrect relationship between the forces and the cranemen. And there was an incident with journalist Andruszk. In Donetsk, on a visit by the President of Ukraine to a newspaper correspondent, Mrs. Svetnick's guards removed the photographs from the camera. Security prevents journalists from recording high - crew traffic, although not motivated by any act of law at all. This was not the case for the beating of Herrsonian journalist Dementia the White Mayor. And there are, unfortunately, many of these cases. On June 6, 2011, during a meeting with the President of Ukraine’s leading Ukrainian media, journalists handed over a list of obstacles to journalistic activity, including more than 20 cases of obstacles to journalists and 35 cases of economic and indirect pressure on the press. The president assigned the Attorney General Victor Pshonce to set up a special commission. But I want to point out that most of these facts we've been looking at in our Tsk and there's just, unfortunately, no response necessary. Here come the receipts that they've been checked, and there's no facts to react to. I have already stressed that our particular concern is the lack of progress in investigating the disappearance of Vasil Klementiev. We heard this story twice in our sessions, the witnesses complained, that they thought they were going to remove the technology that they were able to recover only after the TSC intervened. And there remains a request to refer the matter to the Attorney General's Office to ensure the impartiality of the investigation, but unfortunately we are not heard, and here we are by our law enforcement authorities. The TSC is closely monitoring the Gongadze case. We certainly support the authorities ’ desire to expose the murder of a journalist and punish the guilty, but we insist on an objective, comprehensive and impartial investigation into the crime that would answer the question of the role of all figures in the case. Including those who have released films from the office of the President of Ukraine in the fate of Gongadze, their possible involvement in this crime, or their involvement in this crime. The Gongadze family appealed to the TSK with a complaint about violations of the rights of victims to study materials after the completion of the trial and also has serious warnings about the closure of the future process, which is what we want to pay attention to in the same way as the law enforcement authorities. According to influential Ukrainian and international NGOs, the situation of freedom of speech and Ukraine has deteriorated in the past year. Your concern, you know, has also been expressed by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, the European Commission, a series of international legal organizations. National MPs from the TSC Party of Regions view such a free - speech assessment as unobjective and biased, but opposition factions joining the TSC share this concern. Because our analysis of the references that come to us shows that there is a problem and that these observations need to be held accountable, studied, and the negative trends are simply isolated from our lives. The main factor of the pressure on the regional press today is the economic factor, the local authority, if it sees the lack of loyalty of local media simply ceases to finance unruly newspapers, emerges from the founders, alienates property and premises. And I just want to give you a few facts. For two and a half years, I've told you, the Black Sea News newspaper in Odeschen is simply trying to resist the head of the Matthewshuk administration, who issued a one-man order without the proper decision to leave the co-founders of this newspaper. We also heard TSK complaints from hop journalists about pressure from the head of the government. This scandalous story has been solved, including by such an active position of journalists and because the head of the district has acknowledged his wrong position. And such examples, when journalists publicly announce the problem, and the authorities hear and acknowledge that it was wrong, they always work positively both to solve the problem, and to the reputation, in this case, and the authorities, and journalists, who defend the profession. In Poltavsk district, the Hades group complains of illegal, they think, dismissal from editorial work, pressure from the new director. Which, by the way, respectable colleagues from overpowered factions, I'm paying attention to, according to journalists, forcing workers to write an application for entry into the Party of the Regions. Is that how you want to increase your ranks and your multiplicity? TSK also heard the testimony of journalists who complained that they had been physically affected by communication with regional authorities or police. Especially Ludmila Luna, editor-in-chief of the newspaper "My newspaper" from Hmelnicki, once again, complained of obstruction by the police. After the TSC intervened, local law enforcement officials apologized to the journalist and gave her her technique. There are very many complaints from regional journalists, and all you have to do is say hello when they have that courage, and I think it's very important here not to look formally at their questions, because it also takes a lot of courage to talk to a small town about the problem of losing their jobs. The head of the Association of Journalists of National Igor Lubchenko in his letters raised a very important, colleagues, topic, would like you to hear here not only the political component, but it is also so professional, it is excluded from cable networks for loyal speakers. If we have the attention of society to the TV channels and it is very easy to monitor the objectivity or involvement of news, the operators of the language are working in another field and are able to turn off the disloyal language on purely intended grounds, thus simply stopping it. So, for example, in May 2011, the "Willa Cable" was shut down by the Cherkas independent television channel "Antena Plus". Although their license was until 2016. Likewise, the TV channel complains that its partners in the regions have received inconclusive warnings about removing them from the cable network if they continue to cooperate with a capital independent television channel. Colleagues, I'd like to draw your particular attention to the number of complaints and to the work of the National Council on Television and Radio. It's very good that for the first time in five years, we heard the Nakrad at a meeting of the Supreme Council. But you know, I just want to pay attention to the leadership of the Supreme Council, and we have dedicated two sessions of the TSC to Nacradi. And they were not represented by the National Council. Although we are with you, as the Supreme Council of Ukraine is their employer, we appoint four Nacradis. And in fact, we have our responsibility for the work of the regulator. It is not only the Supreme Council but also all of our electorates that we should not show respect for such meetings. We've been looking at, in fact, complaints about, you remember canceling the 5 Channel and TV licenses and the second was dedicated to other complaints that had accumulated over the year. So, if it was said last year that you and the 5 Channel got these licenses for breaking the law, that's fine. I'm giving the following example, over the course of the year, TV didn't get any license at all. Although I applied for all the announced competitions, we're all not just deputies, we're viewers, and we see it's a really interesting channel. What's worse than the other TV channels that get licenses with the packets? Of course, only such an objective, prejudiced attitude can be spoken of. And today the fate of these two channels, it's in a suspended state -- three courts passed the TV channels. Since February, however, there has been an appeal before the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the matter. Although there must be an answer within 15 days – there is no answer, they do not know whether they will take the case into account, obviously by dragging the question that makes it impossible to turn channels to the European Court of Human Rights. The year is the conflict between Nakrad and the Black Sea. By her latest decision, Nacrad refused to extend the TRK license in May at frequencies where she worked for seven years, particularly in the villages of Nova Petrovka, Soviet, Black Sea Crimea. Today, the honourable Mr. Speaker read several references to the Attorney General's Office in the same way as to complaints of a violation of the licenses of the all-U.S. radio network Melody. We've been looking at the same thing, colleagues. "Melody" ran out of license today. They took away a packet of these licenses and passed it on to a new language that was given 55 frequencies in two sessions. At the same time, the Nakrad motivates that this new New Aubrey language has given us a very original concept. The originality of the concept is as follows: 20 percent informational, 80 percent musical. It's extremely original. Who's behind the "New Ages" is not even known to Nakradi himself, not to mention our TSK. We couldn't find the answer. And I think all of these things today, they require us to listen to Nacradu in a special way at our meeting of the Supreme Council on the subject of the opacity of licensing. And the second such problem is very important, it's a test of non-planned speakers. Consider: Last year, 300 scheduled tests, 107 out - of - order tests. In doing so, they refer to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The TSK received a complaint from the Independent Association of Broadcasters about illegal channel checks, and Nacrad and the Attorney General’s Office appeared. In doing so, she gave a formal response, referring to the recommendations of parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine, "Youth for a healthy lifestyle." Although in fact, our hearings do not give additional authority to the prosecutor’s office and at the same time refer to the Supreme Council. The linguists themselves view these off - schedule raids as one of the forms of editorial pressure. And very opaque, dear colleagues, is the process of introducing digital language. This is a problem that will be faced by every Ukrainian speaker and viewer in 2015 when Ukraine becomes digital. A decision of the National Council today identifies a structure that is still unknown in the market, which has immediately set unwarrantedly high prices for its services to television companies. So far, we have such a very large package of non-public complaints, and so do the linguists. But we suggest, firstly, and the Freedom of Speech Committee to hold such special hearings devoted to the publicity of the work of our operator, the regulator, excuse me, and the introduction of digital language, and listen to this at the Supreme Council meeting. Similarly, members of the TSK from opposition factions again appeal to the head of the state to listen to the opinion of nongovernmental organizations and to appoint a presidential quota to the National Council on Television and Broadcasting a professional, open-minded, unattractive expert from public non-governmental organizations. Because, nonsense, but for the first time in all the years of Nakrad’s activities, there is no representative of either opposition or public organizations. Of course, this does not contribute to the operator's transparency, oh, regulator, sorry, please. The problem remains the application of article 171 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, and I talked about it, and our colleague Pavlovski and a group of other national deputies have now registered an interesting bill that proposes to strengthen the protection of journalists who have the right not to disclose their sources of information. It is important that we listen and support this bill. During the year, TSK received many complaints about unmotivated, journalists say, searches in reporters ’ rooms. For example, Helen Bilozerska, the editor-in-chief of the Information Agency, complains that she has been removed from her computer, photo, video technology after she posted on her website a video of the burning of one of the parties' offices. During interrogations, she was forced to name her sources of information, although legislation protects journalists ’ rights not to reveal their sources. And I think in this context we need to legally resolve the legal conflict between the laws that protect journalists and the Criminal Procedure Code. I want to say that we have tried very hard, colleagues, to make our report comprehensive, well-founded, so unbiased that we put out all the problematic points that exist today in the area of freedom of speech and in terms of government relations from the media, from the point of view of the problems that journalists themselves often bring to the profession. Because this is the same way that a serious discussion in the journalistic environment is to take place with regard to the standards of the profession. And in the recommendations we have made, first of all, a request to adopt appropriate legislation that would strengthen the protection of journalists, which would be heard, we propose to hear as well as the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs in the matter of Klementiev, Gongadze, as the investigation is ongoing. Listen to Nakrad representatives about important issues for every Ukrainian and every language, digital language.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u66	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. Yeah, 10 minutes. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u67	Yuri Carmazin. I thank the entire commission very much for their work. You've raised a serious layer of problems. I'd like to point out one thing right now. To my profound belief, the National Council has become a corrupt path in the case of a digital television transfer that aims to take away, that is, to bring about the raider's admiration and clean up the entire radio space until the next election. You've drawn it, just like that, carefully. I'd like you to keep checking this out, first. And second. I have a big question for you from the "Melody" radio fans. I got acquainted with the documentation, more faithfully, with the falsification that was granted by the National Council. The National Council made no judgments, no civilisations. How do you think you're going to deal with this further? You are now on the highest court of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And you've seen that Melody's radio is effectively captured, with consent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues! As far as digital television is concerned, this is not Nakrad’s decision. We need to realize that Ukraine signed the Convention on the Transition to Digital Television in Geneva in 2006. The question is the transparency of this process and the professionality of how it is done. And of course, it's very important for us that the speakers who are going to go to the number, first, to be able to pay reasonable tariffs, and secondly, that all the speakers be allowed to digital television. Because you're right, dear colleague, because now the Nacrad has defined such rules that only 3 TV channels in each region have the right to be included in this digital package, which is a violation of the right of speakers to equal access to digital packets, and that, of course, can be used to unmotivate interference of certain channels here just to work in numbers. As for "Melody," once again, objectively. There were violations on Melody's radio about paying certain licenses and stuff. But I think this question needs to be settled in court with the radio, pay off all these things, but leave Melody in the language field.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u69	Mikola Catherinechuk, behind him – Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u70	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the European Party of Ukraine. Dear Mrs. Heratchenko, you've done a great job. As a member of the TSC, I can confirm that work has been done seriously enough on all complaints that have taken place, whether it's the central media or the regional media. But why do you think the Attorney General is reacting like that? Because most of the time, we got the receipts along with you. What needs to be improved in this regard? The second question is, it's still "Melody" radio. Do you see the possibility, because of the continuing work of the TSC, that this phenomenon of the new Ukrainian authorities is what is happening to the speakers? And the fate of today's TV, "5 channels" in terms of frequency? These are three questions, please. And, Mrs. Heratschenko, do you not think it is necessary to go to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the TSC to continue their work for another six months?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u71	Thank you. I'll start with the last question about "Melody" and other speakers. In fact, both Melody and TV and Channel 5 are going to file complaints with the European Court of Human Rights. I would like to point out that there is already such a precedent when this year one of the investors, as well as the radicals who lost their investments in Ukraine, won several million dollars in the state of Ukraine for the fact that the previous Nakrad, which worked there before 2005, violated its rights. On all these rights, you see, the state of Ukraine will then get a negative image in the world, sooner or later they'll have to pay compensation from taxpayers' money. So it's very important that both the Nazrad and the courts really get to the stories of these people where there were some, for example, under-licensed payments, and people paid them, but Melody and TV and the 5 channel stayed in the language field, because it beats very much in the reputation of Ukraine, if we have the languages that occupy such a, let's say, opposition-neutral position, to throw them out of the media space. As far as your others are concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u72	Andrew Shevchenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u73	My colleagues, I think we've heard a very thoughtful report. And any MP who understands the value of freedom of speech, who feels that the country in sight is sliding into the darkness of non-liberation, will today vote precisely in favour of this report. As head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, I would also like to thank you for the bills that have been drafted, which is a rare case where the TSC gives us that outcome. The fact that the TSC's head has just published, I think it's amazing, it's shocking, it's huge. And I understand that it was hard for you to say the source of this pressure. I might be able to help, because the news that has now turned into a curved mirror in Ukraine clearly shows that this mirror is distorted in the interests of the President and directly his immediate surroundings and his team. We know that the UT-1 has disappeared from the opposition that is a closed subject of the Inter-Igoria. Could you say more about the source of this pressure so that we do not part with the conclusion that this pressure is abstract?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u74	I want to say that I see several sources of this pressure. And back to the question of Mikolika Catherinechuk, why didn't the Attorney General often see, perhaps, such absolutely obvious cases where we still have to break cases and deal with them. We were told that they were not confirmed. Of course, it's such a feeling that sometimes with power, the opposition with power, we put a completely different meaning in the same words as freedom of speech, what democracy is. I want to say that our commission couldn't put it into work anymore, but there are some very disturbing facts, for example, from the Donetsk region, where journalists in the Donetsk district of TRK complain that they've started getting dungeons, where, for example, they're being offered instead of taking cholera in Mariupola, they say there's no gasoline, they're being offered to take it off at this time, and the gasoline is to get to the board meeting, and take the twin briefing, actually. Every day, mandatory speakers are called high - level regional officials. It's unacceptable things, and I think today the central authority, the regional authority somehow feels differently about freedom of speech. But, Andrew, we will be unobjective if we do not speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u75	Yes, National Deputy Kurpill, Faction "BUT" is the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u76	Dear Mrs. Irina! The commission has done a tremendous amount of work, and I would like first of all to express my gratitude to the journalist community as the head of the commission, because the most difficult, the greatest burden you have placed on your delicate shoulders. Sadly, many have failed to do so, although it is certainly one of the most effective temporary commissions that existed in the Supreme Council. The question is. Those problems that we've been looking at are still relevant. Complaints are on the rise. There is a tendency to increase. Do you think that the work of such a temporary commission should be continued?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u77	Thank you for asking. We have an appropriate request from public non-governmental news organizations, who feel the same way that in the electoral year, which is essentially starting in September 2011 in Ukraine, the number of pressure attempts on journalists is generally increasing, and it would be right to monitor the situation. Turning back to the question of Andrew Shevchenka, I want to say that, of course, there is, I think, a difference between what the President said when he says he is for freedom of speech, and what they then show when they say that, and where the fact is. In fact, a lot, and journalists, I would like to point out, when they met with the President on June 6, 2011, they handed over this whole package of documents to the President, who we were essentially looking at at TSK. According to Medjugorje, the President himself found the court’s decision to prohibit the conduct of peaceful acts by journalists absurd. It is only incomprehensible whether the subjects really want to frame him as such, or whether it is a game in a good and bad investigator. Indeed, the question is. But I want to go back to the journalism community. And we're with you, Andria, as journalists in the field, we won't be honest if we don't talk about the number of order materials at very, very low professional levels.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u78	Ivan Popescu. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u79	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Irina Volodymyrovna, did your commission conduct a content analysis of the official bodies of the Supreme Council, the Voice of Ukraine, the Council Channel, the More, on the proportional disclosure of the faction's work? And the second question. Whether censoring has been observed, for example, when information is provided about participation in certain activities of some national MPs and silence, such as the silent ignoring of others. Because sometimes representatives, including opposition, raise questions about other bodies. I'd like to know if there's such a thing at the level of the Supreme Council. Have you done this content analysis? And if you don't, maybe in the future you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u80	I want to say what I said in our report, I don't know how else the TSC is, and we, our commission, even though the Rules require it, haven't even been allocated two workers a year to help us work in this TSC. [[didn't read it.]] And all the work was on the shoulders of our assistants and national deputies, who were also loaded. So, first of all, we looked at the complaints from the journalists who came to us. We considered, first of all, not the complaints of politicians who were released or not released, but the complaints of journalists about what was going on there. If you and I are going to create a TSC for the protection of politicians, maybe that's what the TSC needs, and I think it has, first of all, these things to monitor. We used the monitoring of those who gave us the IIBI, for example, that monitor the presence of power or opposition, first of all, the national channel and the news. If. I'm saying that if we have as many monitors as we can, you're right. But this requires appropriate technical capabilities. Once again, I want to thank all the colleagues who worked in the TSC, all the journalists who had the courage to address, write, and the politicians who stood up for this subject, because together we are very protective.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u81	Thank you, Irina Volodymyrno. Dear colleagues, the answers to the questions raised in this regard have been completed. You have the materials of the commission. The commission worked, judging by everything, on a solid basis, so we have the opportunity to now express our position on the work of the commission, on the evaluation of the people's deputies, namely, the factions. As we agreed, two minutes. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. And, dear colleagues, the proposition is, let's not take a break. Let's finish this discussion, we have a series of urgents there, and at 1:00, we'll move on to the Miscellaneous. That's wise, isn't it? As always. Thank you. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Korge, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Mikola Tomenko. Then Landik will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the importance of today's consideration of the issue, because, unfortunately, in humanitarian policy -- I am here with the President, who said that there is no humanitarian policy in Ukraine, there are no people responsible for humanitarian policy, and there is no understanding of what humanitarian policy should be -- so unfortunately, there are no public information policies in the Ukrainian State in 2011 and there are no people to be asked. Well, based on the idea that when this question is being considered, whether the newly appointed head of the Derteradio should sit here, there should be people who are responsible for the authority, the representatives of the Nacradu must have been. It's like everyone's solving their questions in one position or another, and no one's responsible for anything. When yesterday we were discussing the question of the appointment of the head of the Derteleradio, well, by idea, he would have to at least come forward, tell us what program he would do with the state, the municipal. He was so happy to vote for him, and he's going to go on. That is why I think that Parliament should return to its function. And if the government can't do that, let's let Parliament control, influence information policy. This is the first thesis. Another thesis. I don't want to talk about the situation in commercial media. We have to control them, they have to follow the laws, but the most important thing for us is state media and municipal media. They get government funds, taxpayers' costs. And it was so impressive that soon the heads of district and district administrations would think that they were their own media, even though we all are, the Ukrainian people are paying for them. I'd like to ask the committee to take a special look at how we have nationals, the First National Radio Company, and the National Radio Company, who are already telling such legends that we now have many citizens of other states who are directing that they already have Russian in the First National, because they know Russian with errors, and they don't know Ukrainian at all. We will soon translate the First National into a foreign language, for we have employed foreigners who do not read either Ukrainian or Russian. Here I am reading a letter from the Luhansk Regional Broadcasting Company to the President, the Supreme Council. Asking the authority to release the producer: a citizen of Russia has arrived in Lugansk, a city that does not know what the name is in Lugansk region, runs a district television company. Dear friends, so let's say we don't have people in Ukraine who can run regional television companies or do anything. And third position, I'm done. I also asked the committee to pay attention to a number of illegal layoffs that took place. Today, the illegally liberated head of the National Radio Company Victor Nabruska, head of the Cherka Regional Radio Company, Mikhailo Kalinichenko, and a number of others. I also believe that such things must be taken into consideration and that professionals should work in these positions, not with the heads of district administrations to come along and become media executives. I think the committee should pay attention to these issues. I think the commission should continue its work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u83	Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Michael Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u84	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Just as it didn't come to me and ask, even though I am the first deputy to this temporary commission, I would like to make my remarks on the work that I have done and the conclusions that I have reached before me, Irina. Those words that were used there, for example, "numbers," well, they're invalid, nobody counted anything, nobody came up with anything. When they tell us your application and channel 5 they don't get any licenses, like the TV channel, so I can call another hundred or maybe more channels that haven't received anything from this National Council all year. It's not that they don't give a particular channel, it's what we do with the National Council. When we say that reporters without borders met and talked, they only spoke to one part of the committee, the other no one invited, no one listened, so its conclusions are one-sided. And when we say that they're becoming a norm, they're not responding to the authorities, and it's becoming a norm, please tell me that not so long ago was the Act on Access to Public Information, which was not accepted by your authority three years earlier, it was now accepted, it can be asked, it can be asked in power, not in power, and not only by a journalist, but by any citizen of Ukraine. And the changes that have been made to the information law, where it's all written down, haven't been done in years, and you're saying it's not a response. There is a response. And when Klementiev was invited to the Attorney General's Office and a high-ranking official came along, and the IMF.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u85	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u86	We've figured it out, it's all in control, we're all in control. We show where to look, they listen to us, they answer us, it may take a long time, but the job is going. So I don't think these are more and more political conclusions. And the conclusions need to be made, which are true and harmful to such conclusions, I think is a political component. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u87	Mikola Catherinechuk refers the right to speak to Oles Donya, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u88	During the term of the previous presidency, there were many problems in various areas. But often these politicians, journalists, ordinary citizens said that the only, the greatest gain is freedom of speech. And how quickly we lose this gain, how quickly this last bastion falls. Regrettably, there are many clear, concrete examples in the report of the loss of freedom of speech. On the one hand, monopolization of the organs of mass media. And we see that those who are not opposition channels, but more or less objective, who are trying to explain and enable both representatives of the government and the opposition, the TV channel and the 5 channel are dislicensed. Now they're saying that these were just mistakes from the previous authorities. Dear friends, it was recently submitted by the colleagues of the TV channel, and a request was made that only requires registration for satellite language. This fact has not yet been reported because it has only happened recently. But even satellite language is already considered dangerous for an independent channel. And the application was rejected, no license. I say again, even though the law requires her to register. This is a fact of specific political censorship. We don't just have to talk about representation on channel UT-1. Again, no specific number has been entered. According to the monitoring of the Media Institute, which has been on the site of Telecriticals, more than 80 percent of news coverage is from officials and less than 10 from opposition factions. This is how freedom of speech is lost. The beating of journalists, the failure to expose the murder of journalist Clementiev in Kharkiv, is a particular political pressure. Unfortunately, once again, the discussion is now becoming a formality. Please take a look at the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u89	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u90	There's always mass media. Unfortunately, mass media, journalists don't think we can influence the situation. So, dear friends, we need to think. First, obviously we need to approve the report and continue the work of this commission. And talking to journalists. If you do not expect, you will obviously have to organize yourself more. Structures, trade unions, and self-defense if the state is unable to defend itself at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. Let me have the draft decision. Oh, from the draft decrees. Dear colleagues! The draft ruling that I think is so balanced, it's designed by the members of the TSC, there's a note. Along with how you agree to make a decision as a basis and then as a whole. What do you mean? Something. Please, Paul Zebrowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u92	I'm proposing a base. Because it ended up saying, "Stop the work of the Interim Investigation Commission," and there were a lot of suggestions from colleagues on how to proceed. And that's why we can accept it in addition.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u93	So let's take that as a base. And then, if so, the Supreme Council will support it. Then we'll delete the termination point and then we'll have to determine if, if we support the Supreme Council, how much longer to continue the work of the commission. This way. That's it. No, that's what I'm saying, it's the logic of going along, my dear fellows, and you make the decision. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Decree No. 8691 as a basis. Please be sure. [[12:16:22]] For-89 The decision is not taken. And then it goes like this, dear colleagues. So we can do that if there's a new draft decision to continue the work of the commission -- then let's see, I don't see another way out here. Then I have one thing to thank the head of the commission and the members of the commission for the work that was done. And obviously the results of the commission's work should be made public and we'll continue to work. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! I want to go to the hall right now, actually, considering that we have a very politicized hearing of any kind, we've been trying to make a very objective and impartial report of this TSC and take all the comments, suggestions and so on. And again, I think the ruling majority is coming at the same rake. When there's a problem as an appendicitis, instead of admitting this appendicitis and treating it together, not only to politicians, but also to journalists to raise these important subjects. You just pretend there's no problem. This will not diminish the assessment of the situation in Ukraine with journalists, nongovernmental international organizations, and other institutions. And I think it's kind of a "path to nowhere" that, first of all, suffers today as if by all society. And really, I think I have other little bits of vision about why the press is looking so inactive at all these things. In fact, the press may similarly be forbidden to speak at all about freedom of speech. We remember what the Dark Ones used to be. From the fact that it was forbidden to talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I say once again, we will report to the commission for publication. I thank once again the members of the commission, personally the head of the commission. And now I ask the committee to monitor more actively the implementation of those recommendations and proposals that have been identified and identified in the report of the interim commission of inquiry. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Law amending article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on conditions for stimulating the production of electricity from alternative sources]] Registration number 8231. The proposal to consider this issue by a simplified procedure. [[12:19:10]] For 221 Decision taken. The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Głushchenko Igor Mikolayovich. And from the committee then, four minutes you have time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u96	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I have been introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity (as regards the conditions for stimulating electricity production from alternative sources). The current edition of the Law on Electricity for Green Tariffs requires licensees producing electricity from alternative sources to provide at least 30 per cent of electricity from 1 January 2012 and not less than 50 per cent of Ukrainian electricity from 1 January 2014. To date, however, the Ukrainian market for the production of equipment for powerful alternative energy objects of the world class is only in the formation stage. In addition, legal regulations that determine how to calculate the drinking weight of raw materials, materials, basic funds, jobs, and services of Ukrainian origin are not accepted and are at the stage of development. Legally defined criteria and procedures for placing goods, jobs, or services on Ukrainians do not exist today. Under these circumstances, the investment attractiveness of projects in the construction of green electricity objects is decreasing, and the risk of return on investment investments is increasing. With a view to removing circumstances that hinder investment revenues for the development of alternative energy, it is proposed that conditions be put in place to stimulate the development of production and the use of renewable energy sources by establishing a more flexible schedule for the introduction of requirements for the use of raw materials, materials, basic funds, jobs and services of Ukrainian origin in the cost of building green generations. The draft law proposes that these requirements be divided into three stages. As of 1 January 2012, not less than 15 percent, from 1 January 2013 at least 30 percent, and from 1 January 2014 at least 50 percent, and from 1 January 2014 at least 50 percent, for solar power producers, to divide the requirements for drinking raw materials, materials, essentials, jobs and services of Ukrainian origin into 2 stages for the construction of solar modules. Since January 1, 2013, part of the component of Ukrainian origin should be at least 30 percent. And starting in 2014, at least 50 percent. The proposed periods will allow investors to progressively meet the requirements for the volume of goods, jobs and services of domestic origin in the context of the Ukrainian economy. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security at its meeting on 15 January 2011 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 17.1 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity and proposed the adoption of a bill as a basis and as a whole. [[on the promotion of power generation from alternative sources]] For the outcome of the discussion, I ask you to support the committee's proposal and to adopt the bill mainly and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u97	Thank you, Igor Mikolaiovich. Is there a need to discuss? Is that clear? Dear colleagues! Yeah, from a group of who? Hashuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u98	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future draws your attention to Bill No. 8231 on the conditions for stimulating the production of alternative electricity, which, in our view, is insufficiently justified. The project is proposed to apply as an incentive factor for alternative electricity production a condition in which the value of raw materials, labor, and services of Ukrainian origin is at least 15 percent of the value of building an alternative electricity plant on January 1, 2012. From 1 January 2013 to 30 percent. Including the energy of the sun. And since January 1, 2014, 50 percent. Including the energy of the sun. An immediate economic incentive for alternative energy development is already introduced by a green tariff, whereby alternative energy produced is delivered to consumers at a higher rate. Therefore, the implementation of this legislative initiative nullifies the proposed bill to stimulate its own production and other resources needed for the development of alternative energy. However, it is unconvincing to argue that the Ukrainian economy is unable to offer enough materials, raw materials, equipment for the construction of alternative world - level energy objects because of lack of funding and almost complete absence of credit from Ukrainian banks. Thus, the project actually reduces existing percentages of Ukrainian materials for the construction of alternative energy objects. In view of what has been said, we do not consider it sufficient to justify the need to adopt the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you've heard the speech of the profile committee. And I think there's no doubt in our minds that there are people on the subject in the profile committee who understand the subject and question the decision we have with you. So I'm voting on a proposal for a profile committee to adopt the Amendment Act to Article 17 Prime. The Ukrainian Electricity Act. [[on conditions for stimulating the production of electricity from alternative sources]] [[Registration number 8231]] Please vote. [[12:26:33]] For 288 Thank you, the law has been passed. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market. [[on gas undertakings]] [[Registration number 8657]] There's a cut-off proposal. Please make up your mind. [[12:27:09]] For 212 Copy that. Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Czech Sergei Mihajlovich
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u100	Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! Ukraine's Amendment to the Natural Gas Market Principles Act is designed to optimize the costs of gas-producing enterprises that produce natural gas to form a natural gas resource, which is used for population needs and to meet contractual obligations for natural gas exports under existing contracts under intergovernmental agreements. In particular, the bill provides for changes to article 1, which gives a new interpretation of "good natural gas", it defines: such a natural gas that is supplied to a general network that forms a balance, that is, except for gas used for its own needs by a gas company, so-called, technological gas, and with the exception of that natural gas produced by a manufacturing company, a scrapped gas, which, in turn, is also supplied at a fixed price to a settlement at special auctions. Thus, the adoption of such a law would improve the economic situation of an enterprise, provided that the existing state gas balance is maintained. The bill is in agreement with the central authorities concerned. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u101	From the profile committee, Mikola Martinenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! At its meeting on 15 June this year, the Committee considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on gas undertakings]] [[No. 8657]] The bill is aimed at resolving two problems: first, it removes the injustice that arises from the obligations of domestic gas undertakings to sell all the product gas to an entity designated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in accordance with the requirements of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market. But enterprises have their own needs in the production, preparation, and transportation of natural gas, oil, and gas condensate. And they are forced to purchase the necessary quantities of natural gas at prices set by NCRE, as for industrial consumers and other operators. The second issue is the fulfilment by state-owned enterprises of their external obligations. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market to be adopted on a basis and as a whole. [[on gas undertakings]] [[No. 8657]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u103	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Yes, then I put to the vote a proposal for a profile committee to adopt the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market. [[on gas undertakings]] [[Registration number 8657]] [[12:31:25]] For 274 The law is passed. We're talking about the bill of the Sanitation Bank. [[Registration number 8586]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:31:53]] For the 220. Offer supported. Reported by the author of the legislative initiative Yuri Vasilovich Karakai. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u104	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The formation of a powerful banking system is an essential prerequisite for the continued economic development of our nation’s national security. Yet, we are far from reaching that goal. Today, the amount of assets classified negatively in the banking system is more than 177 billion dollars, accounting for about 15 percent of the total. Over the past 3.5 years, this indicator has increased almost 11 times. Sadly, the measures taken since the beginning of the financial crisis have not changed the situation in principle. Despite the four-year endless theoretical and practical discussions, the study of world experience, neither the National Bank nor other authorities of the state have submitted relevant bills for consideration by the Supreme Council. That's why we, the members of the Supreme Council's committee of profile, were forced to prepare and bring to your attention a draft of the relevant bill, which, in our opinion, creates the conditions for resolving this extremely problematic situation for our State. The experience of other countries in the world shows the existence of international analogous experiences, the creation of specialized financial institutions, sanitation banks, funds, companies, and so on, government funds, including central banks. As authors, we are well aware that the law needs to be redrafted for the second reading. A proper discussion was also taking place at our committee meeting. The National Bank, the representatives of the central authorities, the national MPs made many reasonable suggestions on how to work on the bill. So we ask you to accept it on the first reading, and we will work it out completely for the second, and with the assurance that neither bank investors nor banks will suffer from it, but only benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u105	Thank you. Hometicist Vitaly Yuriovich, head of the Committee on Banking. finance, sorry, banking, tax and customs policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u106	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The committee at its meeting reviewed the draft Sanitation Bank Act, which defines the legal status, functions and authority of the Sanitation Bank. It is also placed in the special status of this bank by virtue of its specificities. Today, there is a general need for proper regulation. The committee, after hearing the authors ’ position and examining the experience of European countries, concluded that it was really necessary to create such a bank today. What it's going to be called: a sanitizer or, there, a toxic bank, that's another question. In fact, this bank is designed to clean up those banking assets that today do not allow the banking system to develop and carry the corresponding individual banks to the bottom. The author reported that today the questionable bank debt is about 177 billion dollars, 15 percent of the total portfolio. And we analyzed what is the experience in Europe, in the United States. There are different approaches. In some cases it creates, in some cases it creates a national bank of such banks, in some cases it is a joint property of the state and business. The approach proposed by the authors is generally supported by the committee. The committee suggests that the law be adopted in the first reading. Before the second reading, we made a number of suggestions and some warnings, including a matter that concerns a more clearly defined procedure for the bank’s activities, so that they can be as direct as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u107	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u108	In order to ensure that the law contains the direct rules of procedure and definitions of all necessary and as few appropriate links as possible to the legal acts to be developed by the National Bank accordingly. So before the second reading, we agreed to set up a working group of authors -- national MPs, committee members; to invite experts from the National Bank and relevant representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to adopt the amended draft Law on Sanitation Bank as a whole at this session. Therefore, the recommendation for today is in the first reading to be accepted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u109	Thank you. Yes, if you would like to participate in the discussion, please sign in. It's a pretzel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u110	Please pass the word "Peklushenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u111	Please, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I may be mistaken, but I think that no European country or country in post-Soviet space has suffered as Ukraine has suffered from problems in banks and troubled banks. We should therefore take this matter very seriously. Of course, one thing is to scream, return the population's contributions, and the other is really trying to do it. I don't know how to describe it, I was lucky, I was honored, but I had to be a member of the commission of inquiry for the Bank of Ukraine, a member of the interdepartmental commission for the Slav Bank and a member of the interdepartmental commission for the return of our bank. I know what it's like to return assets when a representative of the Attorney General's Office sits, you say to him, "Here's the guy who stole from people, here's his car and his food, take it away." There is no court decision. The following day, "There's a court decision, take it away." There's no way, through executive services. There is no centre today to systematically address this issue. It is this bill that seeks to address the problems of troubled banks from a public perspective at the outset, not when they become a disaster for the whole country. There may be a variety of ways to view the proposed bill, and it must be improved, but I ask you, dear colleagues, to see that it lays the foundation in the investor protection system. And I ask you, distinguished colleagues, to approach this, not from the position of a doctor of proctology, but from the position of public figures, from the position of our constituents.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u113	He's a smoker.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u114	I ask you to pass the word to the Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u115	Please, Caplienne's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u116	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Of course, the problem raised in this bill is relevant to today's state, to any investor, to every citizen today who has a personal relationship within the framework of contracts concluded with banking institutions. Of course, that is the problem because citizens cannot return their savings for a few years. I'd like to explain why the MP's reform group for the future didn't support the introduction of this bill twice last day. We referred to the first article of the first project on the sanitization bank, where the creation of the bank was envisaged in the form of a private stockholder society, when this rule as we heard yesterday was cleared we would support this bill and on the first or second reading, if the mistakes that are there are taken away. And I'd like to put some emphasis on them. First, the project is essentially of a declarative nature and does not offer a clear mechanism for the operation of the sanitation bank. In order for us to implement this draft, the NBA will have to adopt a series of sub-legislative acts that, unfortunately, are not marked by this bill today. The other one. This law regulates the relationship that arises during the establishment of, literally, the registration of activities and the reorganization of banks. But since the rehabilitation bank is a separate type of bank, it would be logical to introduce these relations to the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine. I would like to draw attention to that second reading. Next. Part 4 of article 1 indicates that the rehabilitation bank is a bank with special status that operates on the basis of a license issued by the National Bank of Ukraine. However, the law does not specify exactly what this special status is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u117	The Moses of Arjovethin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u118	Dear national deputies, I listened attentively to those who spoke. But you didn't hear the main thing. The Sanitation Bank is a state-owned bank that, at the expense of government funds, has to buy out problematic assets, i.e. fraudulent assets. [[Listen, please.]] I would like to emphasize this in particular. Such luxury among other things was afforded by individuals, individual countries, to purchase fraudulent assets at the expense of taxpayers. I'd like to emphasize that. And to create such a state bank, you need at least 120 million to form statutory capital and a few billion dollars, tens of dollars to buy these problematic assets, please think about it. Next. We've already decided on how to deal with them, and today, at the expense of cost, at gross cost, we've formed 120 billion reserves of problematic assets, and we've allowed him not to pay taxes to banks, to the state, but to make reserves in connection with this problem, we've already solved this problem for these assets. So I'd like to bring up now what the text says to make you understand what these special status banks are. First. The acquisition of alienation by a recovery bank of assets is carried out without the consent of shareholders, debtors, creditors, bank depositors, once. In estrangement, such property is not subject to any restrictions established by law. The other one. The Sanitation Bank is exempt from paying any payments related to the payment of government duties and so forth. Takes over assets, including free of charge, according to its estimate. Please tell me if this is a sign of corruption, if it is not a sign of solidifying stately raiding principles. We have to go the other way, not fight the problem assets, we have to protect the investors through the transition bank, along with the Deposit Guarantee Fund. And that's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u119	Thank you. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, please don't support me when, for government money, taxpayers' money buys out problematic loans. It's immoral.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u121	The discussion is over, we'll make a decision. Before making a decision, I would like to emphasise, on another occasion, yesterday, when we included this bill in the agenda of the bill, the drafter stated that throughout the text the words relating to private property are being removed from this bill. So please, then, once again, we put it in the order of the day yesterday with that understanding. So if we now vote and the committee prepares for second reading, I ask you to consider this position that we are voting for the adoption of the Sanitation Bank Act to remove private property mentions throughout the text of this bill. [[Registration number 8586]] Please vote. [[12:45:46]] For 258. Adopted in the first reading. And let's, dear fellows, take a quick look at the next draft of the decree marking the state-level 360th anniversary of the Battle of Berestek. [[Registration number 8475]] Can we vote? I'm voting on the State-level Determining Order 360 years since the Battle of Berestek. [[Registration number 8475]] Please vote. [[12:46:35.]] For 282 Thank you. It's been decided. We are discussing the second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution. [[on State guarantee]] [[Registration number 7402]] The committee reports to the committee head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Plitnicków Alexy Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u122	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting on 16 June 2011 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution of Produce in a second reading. [[on State guarantees]] In particular, the project proposes to establish that the State guarantees the rights and obligations of the investor determined by the distribution agreement, during its period of operation, the legislation of Ukraine, which is in force at the time of its conclusion, is applied. In addition to legislation that reduces or cancels taxes and congregations, it softens the responsibility of an investor who should be applied to make such legislation effective. The second reading received four amendments from the national deputies, two amendments being taken into account. The committee proposes to adopt this bill and, of course, accept it as a whole. And I'm ready to consider the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u123	Yeah, let's get some repairs. 2nd Amendment. Is Fatty insisting? 3rd Amendment. Carmazine, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin. Honorable National MPs. I would like, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, to draw your attention to the conclusion of the General Legal Authority, which concluded that this law is subject to rejection as one that is contrary to the Constitution. I suggest in article 27 of the first part that we put in the following wording: "The terms of the distribution agreement included in it, in accordance with the act of legislation which was in force at the time of the conclusion of the agreement, shall remain valid throughout the period of validity of the contract, except in the cases provided for in this article. In cases where the relevant act of legislation has become invalid, if the parties to the agreement have failed to agree to change conditions in accordance with the applicable legislation, the terms of the distribution agreement shall remain valid for two years from the date of the loss of validity of the legislative act. In cases where the relevant act of legislation has ceased to be valid, the extension of the term of the contract under the terms of the contract for the distribution of products incorporated into it in accordance with this act of legislation, which is contrary to the law in force, shall be prohibited."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u125	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u126	In fact, this is an alternative view. This is contrary to the suggestions made by the national deputy. Therefore, the committee decided to reject the offer of colleague Karmazin and to concentrate on the original proposals made by the national deputy Horoshevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u127	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of three colleagues in Carmazin. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:50:05]] For-21 Not supported. 4th Amendment, Kruc.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u128	Well, it's counted. It's a very hearing correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u129	Counted. No one insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u130	We are grateful, by the way, to my colleague Crutz for this amendment, she is legally irreprehensible.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u131	Yes. Thus, honourable colleagues, we have reason to put to the vote a proposal for a profile committee on acceptance in the second reading and in the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Product Allocation Agreements. [[on State guarantees]] [[Registration number 7402]] Please vote. [[12:50:51]] For 254 Thank you. The law is passed. We are discussing the draft law on the State Flag of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4782]] Ivan Aleksandrovich Hare was somewhere recently. There is a motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[12:51:30]] For-195 Offer supported. So while there's no Hare, let's start with the reverse: listen to the profile committee information. Demcishen Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mihajlovich Litvina, reviewed at its meeting on 6 April 2011 the draft Law on the State Flag of Ukraine, submitted to Parliament by the people's deputies of Ukraine Costenko, Zaym, Jojik. [[Registration number 4782]] The bill proposes to meet the requirements of article 20, part 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine, to establish the description and order of the use of the State flag of Ukraine in relation to the need for legislative regulation of social relations in the field of the use of national symbols of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, having examined the proposed bill to comply with its requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, concluded that the bill had been registered in accordance with the requirements of articles 90, 92 of the Rules. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues concluded that the bill had no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget. And it's also for implementation in the current budget period. Thus, if the law is enacted, its standards may take effect from the date of its publication. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine generally agrees with the need for a legislative settlement of social relations in the field of the use of Ukrainian State symbols established by the Constitution. However, as a result of his consideration of the bill, he made a number of comments and suggestions. And the general conclusion of the administration, as a result of the first reading of the bill, is to return its subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. During the discussion at the meeting of the National Deputies, members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, it was unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the State Flag of Ukraine,
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u133	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u134	Kostenek, Zaym, and Jojik, as a result of the first reading of this article, have the right to re-establish the legal initiative. Please support the decision of our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u135	Yeah, we'll talk about it? Sign up. Please, Be quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich, of course, the question raised today must be resolved in a positive and exclusive way. And there can't be two thoughts here, because these are the constitutional principles of ours and these are the basic principles of our national and national. So I'm going to urge all of you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u137	Kenzir Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u138	I beg your pardon, Oleg Laschko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u139	Light microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u140	Thank you. Oleg Lazko. I think this bill needs to be supported, because Flag, Herb, Himmn are the main symbols of the state, of any state, including ours. And so not only do we need to support this bill, but we need Ukraine to finally get the Great Herb, which we have been celebrating for 20 years this year, we still don't have the Great National Herb. I think we need to activate the work so that we can have all of those symbols, and that no one, including the part of the people in the hall who are still walking with red flags today, is allowed to abuse and trample on our national symbols. [[on the yellow and blue flag, on Herb and on the Ukrainian Hymn]] Not yet, they say, they're turning their heads back and they want the Soviet Union, something else. How can a country be built if people do not love it when they receive wages for government money, sit in the Supreme Council for 20 years and trample on Ukrainian symbols, and despise them? So I think that the electorate should give these poor people an assessment so that in the future the Supreme Council will not be convened. And the Supreme Council, instead of doing politics, has to finally legitimize the national symbols of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u141	One minute is Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u142	Vladimir Yavorowski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Perhaps not everyone knows that a very good event has taken place today. The Constitutional Court considered the submission of national deputies for the use of the red flag during celebrations and victories, and in some areas even during other events. The Constitutional Court has made a very precise decision that the symbols of the Ukrainian State are Herb, the Trident, the Flag is blue and yellow, and the Hymn is "Not yet dead Ukraine". Because of this, Yuri Kostenko's bill is important because it regulates the use, refinement and use of the only State flag in Ukraine. Yulia Tymoshenko's block will support it. Once again, after the Constitutional Court has committed so many sins to its soul, today it has begun such a rehabilitation process, for which we are of course grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u143	Two minutes of the initiative's author and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u144	Dear National Deputies! John the Rabbit is. I and the National MP, Jojik and Yuri Kostenko, have proposed to you the adoption of the Law on National Symbols of Ukraine, particularly the State Flag of Ukraine. We come from the fact that the National Flag of Ukraine identifies not only the nation but also identifies power in the social relations system, both within Ukraine and abroad. The 20th article of the Constitution directs us to adopt a law that describes the State Flag, and where are the positions that regulate its use. Article 65 of the Constitution states that respect for State symbols is an obligation for Ukrainian citizens. And that's why we're taking the initiative to fill that empty space in the actual legislation that should have been filled long ago. Moreover, the Constitutional Court today will likewise address the Supreme Council for its decision to adopt such a law. In our law there are several articles on the description of the flag, in our law there are articles that regulate its use, there are articles that prohibit the flag from being used as a basis for heraldic activity or some other symbolic activity. There are many other positions in our flag. And I think we need to accept this flag, and in view of the practice we have in Ukraine. It is not a secret that we can find the premises of local self-government authorities, where flags of other nations are hanged instead of the State flag. It's not a secret that we're stuck with, I'm sorry, with this red flag on Chrystec when we carried the red flag in front of the State Flag of Ukraine, and there was the President. So to avoid such things, we must accept this flag today. Here the Ukrainian People's Party has opened this flag in front of the Supreme Council, and you can see it, the hugest, largest flag in the world of blue and yellow state to remind us that we have state symbols, and we have to protect it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u145	Yes, 1 minute, Chechchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, today the Constitutional Court has ruled that the Law on the Names of Victory, adopted by us, is unconstitutional. Now I have journalists calling me and saying, "Michail Vasilevich, why didn't the President order the Constitutional Court to legitimize Parliament's decision?" And I say, "Yes, we did have a judicial reform. We have the third independent branch of power. We don't even have the President to tell the court whether or not to vote. The Constitutional Court shall vote on the Constitution and on the law.” They say, "We are building a democratic Power." In my soul, I remain committed to that law. If I voted again, I would vote again. But I respect the third independent branch of power. I respect the judiciary, the Constitutional Court, and we recognize that decision. As for today's law, it will have to be adopted, but in a different way. We're going to do the work, we're going to do the work, we're going to do the work, we're going to do the work, we're going to do the work, we're going to do the work, we're going to do the work, we're going Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u147	Question completed. I'm voting on the adoption as the basis for the draft Law on the State Flag of Ukraine. The Professional Committee and the Chief Scientific and Legal Office recommend that it be sent for further processing. A proposal for acceptance is put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:01:48]] For-80 Not supported. For processing. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:02:10]] For 263 It's going to work. Dear colleagues! 13 hours. I'd like you to sign up for "Virgin." Yes, please, we have an hour on Razna. Naydenov, the Communist faction. Get ready, Buttercup. He's handing over the queen. Please, Eugene Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u148	Respectable voters! Distinguished Telezers, People's Deputies, Adam Ivanovich! Well, you know that today a cynical act has been committed by the Constitutional Court, which prohibits the use of red flags in accordance with our laws. In addition, this law has been signed, as you know, by representatives of all factions other than nationalists. I want to stop at three points. Well, what was meant to provoke was, in principle, we were expecting, because when one of the representatives of the President's Administration was running here, we saw in his book when he passed the law the minuses in the line of the President's Administration and the Government. And because Mr. Chechchev's hand did not touch and support most then, the law was passed, because otherwise our colleagues understood that neither the electorate nor the family nor the grandparents who fought in this Holy War would understand that. It is cynical that the Constitutional Court took this decision on 22 June and largely spit into the face of all veterans, all without exception, who fought in the Soviet Army for soldiers, such as grandfathers and ancestors. The only thing you can see is that on the right side of the hall, this gangsta dog is making a fight because their grandfathers were at war with Hitler, and today they're celebrating a victory. Thus, the third cynicism is in the promises made by the party to the electorate: to protect the truth in history. On the one hand, Tobacco is today signing legislation and duplicating all textbooks in Russian, and on the other hand today, the Constitutional Court, and, I am sure, not without the support and guidance of a party of authorities, because only a naive person can believe it, accepts such a cynical act. I took cards for myself, I found them in the car: and Azarov of 9 May, and the superior authorities. And, you know, I have one idea: and now I want to know from the judges of the Constitutional Court where the armies were fought by grandfathers and ancestors, and if they hadn't turned around, if their hand hadn't touched and raised them, and voted in favour of recognizing the red flag outside the law. I will tell you right away: no one will ban the flag of Victory from using any citizen of Ukraine, not only a communist, but also those who appreciate this great feat. From a historical point of view, you all remember that under the banderovo color of the yellow and blue flag, in 1941-1945, no city of Ukraine, no settlement of Ukraine, no brotherly country, nor any object was the color of that mark. Over all the sites of victory, over the cities of Ukraine, over the countries: both Poland, brotherly and Czechoslovakia, including the Reichstag, hanged the Red Flag. They'll never be able to drain this feat out of our hearts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u149	Mutz has the word. Prepare Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u150	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. Dear Ternopolians, Ukraine's future is a modern, deprived state, stresses the President by carrying out systematic reforms in the country. Thus, the efforts of parliament and local authorities to eradicate the negative phenomena left behind by corrupt predecessors. As Ukrainian national deputy, I have repeatedly raised questions about the activity of the agrohholding "Mrija", which was created by the orange authorities to rob peasants and the community of Ternopolska. Agroholding, which includes 59 business entities, has established control over most of Ternopolska’s sown areas. A large part of these companies were created exclusively for machination. Yes, the group of "Mria" companies consists of six thermal power plants, which were registered as 27 business entities with a view to minimizing payment. In the agrohholding plant during the crisis, there was a catastrophic decline in the sugaryness of the beetroot. Taking between 850 and 900 tons of beetroot and underestimating sugar to three percent, factories received more than 30,000 tons of "left" sugar, almost half-budgeted by the city of Ternopol, 250 million dollars that did not reach the social sphere of Ternopolska, in the hospital, in schools, in the roads. At the same time, factories have declared more than 155 million dollars in damages. Tests from the U.S.A., the U.S. Attorney's Office, the state-of-the-arts have confirmed gross violations of legislation, tax minimization, abuse, including the quality of food. About the scale of the abuse at the sugar plant!" The dream is also evidenced by the criminal offences alleged in part two of article 364 and article 218 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. In general, agriculture has to compensate for an amount almost equivalent to that of the city of Ternopol, which is about half a billion dollars. The restoration of the agricultural sector is one of the priorities for the Ternopil region and is important for the state. The population of Ternopilska has found that the untouched rich, the swindlers who profit from the mobs of peasants without doing anything for their country, will not exist today for the new authorities that have declared the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u151	I'd like to invite Jaroslav Kendzior. To this he gave the word of Vladimir Moses. It will be followed by Stephen Kurpil, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u152	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine!".. Dear head! Dear fellow national MPs! I repeat, I inform the whole country of, at last, a reasonable and fair decision by the Constitutional Court to recognize this against the vocal, anti-Ukrainian law on the red flag that was adopted here in the Supreme Council and there has been a violation of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional. Today we saw an outbreak, as it were, of the hysterias of the representatives, as Vasil Simonenko wrote, of the "bastards, cats of the Ottomans," which protect the red flag -- the flag under which millions of Ukrainians were destroyed. When we compare the crimes of fascism, Hitler’s, and the crime of Stalin’s Red Fascism, which these communist bastards here protect, the Stalinic concentration camps have destroyed several times their own people more than in the concentration camps of the Fascists. And if today the Communists promise to come to our house on June 22nd to Lviv, we will, if they come and with us to order a prayer at the places of mass destruction of the Galicians, in Lviv, in every district center and put flowers on the graves of the victims of the Stalinese, Communist-Fashistic repressions, let them come. If they come to us, teach us to love the red flag and respect the red flag that is not constitutional today, they will go to their families in their cities without pants. You will have full pants of joy from the reception that the Galicians will give you. So, the venerable Ukrainian people! After all, it's true, no matter what the hell this red communist, fascist mosquito that's been destroying, destroying, and today wants to get, destroying Ukraine and its citizens, it's still going up there. Communism will be destroyed, as will fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u153	Stepan Kurpil is referring the word to Vladimir Yavorowski, the faction of "BUT is "The Fatherland". He will be followed by Vitaly Terentiyovich Korge. Please, Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u154	Good afternoon, Ukraine! This rostrum, society, and this hall that she just didn't hear, it just didn't sound from this rostrum. There were, of course, both epochal and historical things when we proclaimed the Ukrainian state, but from this same rostrum, there were rewards for a lot of nonsense, and if you want, provocations. I took the floor, I've talked about it once before, we're barely talking about literature. I once suggested to you from this rostrum that you read Vasil Sklar's novel "Black Crow," and then I can tell you that this novel became the best seller, it won the Chewchen Prize, and the winner of this award made a demand, it won't be received until the Smoker leaves office. I went up to this rostrum today to use it to present to you today and to those who will watch this program of ours, my new novel, a little novel called "The Longest Night of the President." This is a novel about you, too, my dear colleagues. It's an art novel, but it's easy to guess the foregleams of the night the presidential election took place. This is the only documentary moment -- the presidential election. There are three main characters here, this is usually an active president, surrounded by icons, and who is convinced that he did all he could for Ukraine -- all the benefits that he had done, he did, and therefore the people are obliged to vote for him for the second time. It's one line of romance, but the other is already completely, so to speak, fictional. She's a schoolgirl who's fallen in love with her student neighbor, who's older than hers, and she's giving birth to a child from him, and in fact he never mentions her again. And when he's president, she's going to see him to pardon her husband, who's been sent to prison for absolutely no reason -- he doesn't even accept her. When an active president learns that he's losing the election, he's conspiring with his opponent yesterday, giving up national interests. The novel ends when the President calls and wants to know how his village voted, and he's finally told that he has one voice there -- that's the voice of this girl he's actually spent his whole life with. I'm talking to the people's deputies, I know you're mostly reading. And especially the "most" you read your savings books or checkbooks is your favorite. But I think this book came out, it's going to sell now, it's a soft cover here -- buy it, read it, and you'll understand a lot. Who directs us at the highest levels of Ukrainian authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u155	I invite Korja Vitali Terentiyovich to speak with two national deputies: Antonin Bolour and Sergey Koshin. Six minutes, please. He will be followed by Peter Hassuk, a group of Reforms for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u156	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Yesterday there were two important events, which were strangely coincidental in time. The first event. The Supreme Council of Ukraine discussed the issue of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to hold parliamentary hearings on "Stand and prospects for the development of State-faith relations in Ukraine". You know the result. The second event. An international conference was launched in Kiev-Pecher Lavre on the theme: "The Orthodoxy is a civilised haircut of the Slavic peoples.".. In fact, it is one topic that is considered from two points of view, but in this case they are both complementary. It's only in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we operate on concepts like State-faith, or State-church relations. While the organizers of the conference in Lavre are immediately giving the Moscow version in their title: Orthodoxy as a civilizational haircut of the imperial type. So in both ours and in the Lavrish case, everyone knows that according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the church is separate from the state and that relations like the State-faith, we can't, at the moment, have, and so there can't be any development. So, as we can see, certain circles, from both political and clerical sides, are trying to tie our state's policies to the interests of the Moscow Orthodoxy, pre-imposed by these destructive intentions of "civilisation," in quotes, arguments. If we're talking about a State-faith relationship, we have to admit that there is a church in Ukraine that is still in practice a great state and, in fact, an imperial ideology that goes far beyond the apostolic, spiritual and enlightening, that is, the pastoral mission of the church. Because it is obvious that the activities of the Russian UPC of the MP, the Church of Moscow’s Patriarchate, which wickedly claims to be Ukrainian, are accompanied by numerous facts of openly interfering with Ukraine’s economic and political life and contrary to the Ukrainian people’s aspirations for independence. Moreover, Moscow’s religious form of Orthodoxy has never promoted and is not now conducive to the democratization of social life and thus to the realization of civilizational principles in the lives of the peoples, even in Russia. Therefore, in support of the idea of dealing with this disqualification that persists in the territory of our country and based on our Constitution, we should put Parliamentary hearings to the title, "Determining the role of the State in relation to religious religions in Ukraine." In addition, not all Slavonic nations adhere to the Orthodox spirit that the organizers of the Lavra conference consider to be the civil center of the Slavonic peoples. It is evident that the Polish, Czech, Slovak, Croats, who practice Christianity in the Western, Latin ritual, are far ahead of Ukrainians, Russians, and Belarusians at the level of civilization. Poles, Czechs, Slovaks, Croats did not organize famineeers and gulags in their countries, not persecute priests, not destroy temples, not prosecute intelligence, and the hierarchy of their churches did not become ministers of power and instrument in the hands of politicians. Because Western Christianity, Catholicism, has long been an integral part of European culture and has actually contributed to civilizational processes in European history. It is very good that we declare our desire for active cooperation with the countries of the European Union and developed civilization. But then we should pay attention to the fact that none of the presidents of the European civilised countries is demeaning themselves by worshiping the church hierarchy of another country, which is fighting for its own interests. And so far it's quite obvious that of all the religions that exist in Ukraine, not only the claims of political power, but also the practical political-ideological and economic activity in the territory of our homeland has long been carried out by the Church, whose leadership is in the capital of another state. At least look at how much land and building the MPI has received in Ukraine for the support of the authorities who worship Moscow. It must therefore be recognized that there is real clericalism in Ukraine as a legal form of church participation, with the foreign church in the political government of the State. This is already a matter of national security. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u157	I invite Gennady Zadirka, a group of Reforms for the Future, to whom Haszuk Peter gave the word. He will be followed by Nicholas Shershun, a faction of the People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u158	Gennady Zadirko, MP of Reforms for the Future, People's Authority. Dear National Deputies! The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future is concerned about Ukrainian-Romanian relations, which have always been unforgivable. In recent years, they have come to a rather stressful level. Everyone remembers our nation’s unpleasant history of the Shelf of Snakes. There is a problem with the Ukrainian project of restoration of the Danube Black Sea deep-sea course. There is another important question. The possibility of losing part, much of Ukrainian territory. In the media, only the territorial claims of Romania on the island of Mikan have been reported. But Mikan is actually the smallest island, a few square miles away, from a chain of islands like Yarmak, the Great and the Little Daler, Limba and others that Romania can claim, taking into account the principle of the main navigational forward. As a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications, I have been focused in recent years on the implementation of the Ukrainian project on the restoration of the Danube Black Sea deep-sea course. The main objective is Ukraine’s transport integration into the European Union. In addition, it aims at optimizing and socio-economic development of the same depressed region, the Ukrainian Danube region. At the same time, there is another important aspect to be addressed by this project. This is a question of preserving Ukraine's territorial integrity. And I want to make sure that Romania's position in this respect is very unconstructive. In particular, I directed a series of official references to the working bodies of the Espoo, Aarhus, Bernski Convention, where I emphasized that the voter influence of Romania on the ecology of the Ukrainian delta of the Danube. And here the Romanian side is once again using its own political lobby, trying to reach a negative decision for Ukraine during the Fifth Meeting of the Parties under the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context, called the Espoo Convention, which will take place in June 2011. The main purpose of Romania in this matter is to make the Ukrainian project HSH "The Black Sea" and all those works in this project on the Danube River environmentally hazardous during the meeting of the Convention. If Romania receives a positive decision from the International Convention, it will be the only powerful legal argument to block all Ukraine's projects in the Danube Delta. The implementation of the HSH will be blocked, which, in turn, will place the cross on the national project "The Danube Corridor". All projects for the development of the port infrastructure of Ukraine in the Danube will be blocked. All the works on the Danube River will be blocked in order to restore the hydrological balance that Romania has artificially altered. Ukraine’s fight against a further change in the hydrological balance will be impossible, which will clearly lead to further territorial claims. The MP's Reform for the Future insists on more active activities of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources in the protection of national Ukrainian interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u159	I'd like to introduce you to Michael Sherschun, the faction of the People's Party. He will be followed by Julia Kovalevska, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u160	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! We often declare that a child with special needs should become a full member of society in the future, but it is only when he receives a quality education that he will acquire a specialty. However, not all children have the means to do so. We are well aware of the problem of providing textbooks for students in public schools, but it is much sharper in front of visually impaired students. Unfortunately, most of the institutions where these children are taught have huge gaps in scientific and technological security. There is no need to go far for real examples. Today, nearly 4,000 visually impaired school - age children are in the Plains region. For them, there is a special boarding school, where there are about 120 children each year. To date, they lack 320 textbooks, but this is also half of the overall need. For each general education class, 12 sets are required. A total of 170,000 copies of special textbooks are needed in Ukraine. It takes only 11 million dollars to print it, but it does not spend much money on it, although government programs have been in place for children with impaired eyesight since 1995, which are constantly being reviewed and improved. However, the issue of printing such textbooks, I'm not talking about art literature, fell out of the state's perspective. Clearly, these books are much more expensive because they are larger and need special paintings. Since institutions for visually impaired children are or are not in every region, problems for all are typical. True, some try to solve these problems by buying such children textbooks for ordinary schools, although doctors strongly forbid it. But is it possible to compare the lack of funds with the importance of a book to a child’s education? For this reason, only in the Plain region of 750 preschoolers are unable to get a quality start. Personal computers are capable of facilitating the lives of visually impaired children. It has expanded the professions that visually impaired people can work, yet it is necessary to have proper skills at school. Much more can be said, but teachers point out that 70 percent of the world’s perceptions are through sight. And by restricting their access to books, textbooks, computers, we close their windows into the world, taking away the opportunity to live a full life. So now from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, I urge the government to pay attention to this problem. I personally ask the Minister of Education of Tobacco to find the opportunity to publish textbooks for visually impaired children and to provide them with computers to create a normal environment for quality education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u161	I invite Julia Kovalevsky, faction of the Party of the Regions. It will be followed by Victor Taran, "BUT is the Fatherland." [[Terra]] Closer to the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u162	Honorable Chairman, Honorable TV and Radio Hearers! Our country is confidently taking the path of transformation into political, economic, and social spheres. Reforms introduced by the active authorities are aimed at solving many painful issues that have accumulated for many years. Yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted in its first reading the draft Law on Legislative Measures to Reform the Pension System, which was long overdue. Dear fellow citizens, it should be noted that the population is constantly getting older around the world. Retirement benefits are becoming increasingly difficult for governments in many countries. In the last 10 years, pension reform has been introduced or initiated in most countries of SND and Europe, even in those where the ratio of workers and pensioners is much better than in Ukraine. Experts are forecast to have 100 pensioners for 100 working citizens in Ukraine by 2014. Under these circumstances, there are not many options: either total unpaid pensions, or economic defaults. Back in the early 1990s, a solid pension system, the only one operating in Ukraine, came back together. Since she has no alternative yet, there is an increasing deficit in the Pension Fund. In 2009, the shortfall in pension payments was 31 billion dollars, in 2010 it was 34.4 billion dollars. In the current year, according to the most optimistic projections, the pension deficit is expected to be 17.8 billion dollars. As you can see, with each year, the situation is getting worse and worse because the pension deficit is covered by the government budget, which is covered by all of us taxpayers. So pension reform is not being implemented on the IMF's demand for loans, as many of our opponents claim, in order to secure the guaranteed pension payments to millions of Ukrainians. Reforms are always painful. Nevertheless, the government invented a softer way of transformation, giving up a shocking option, such as in Poland. Reform has only one goal: to make the distribution of pension funds socially equitable, since in recent years the minimum pension has been 75 times lower than the maximum. The average of pension payments is totally unacceptable. The teacher’s pension, which has worked hard to obtain higher education, has worked his entire life on self - improvement, a higher professional level, should not be equal to that of the technical worker of the same school. It's socially unfair. As we discussed the bill, you and I heard a lot of horrors and outright nonsense about reform being implemented for the purpose of cost savings. I mean, not everyone's gonna live to get their pensions and stuff. Respectable compatriots! Do not trust empty slogans or outright lies! There is no way to introduce pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u163	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u164	The introduction of pension reform will in no way touch current pensioners. Absolutely all existing pensions will remain, as a minimum, unchanged, and as a maximum, will only increase. I am confident that the reform of the pension system will finally ensure a decent standard of living for Ukrainian citizens who have spent their entire lives paying pensions and increasing social justice in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u165	I'd like to invite Taran-Terreen Victoror. He will be followed by Vladimir Danilenko, a faction of Communists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u166	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. Indeed, a pension reform was adopted yesterday in the first reading by the parliamentary majority in this room. In a figurative sense, this is a trip to a cemetery for older people. Why? Thesis first. When we are told that the extension of retirement age is the practice of all of Europe, I want to say that in Ukraine there is the highest mortality rate in Europe, which Tihypko did not talk about here yesterday. And continuing retirement for people means that most pensioners just won't live to see it. Thesis two. This pension reform will only lead to a reduction in pensions. Why? And why does the authorities say that? An increase of 10 years of insurance will result in a reduction in the pension account base, as the excess allowance will decrease. In other words, many pensioners will be paid less. And this is the main ideology of pension reform. Thesis two. The government plays it hypocritically with people, and to please people, it says, well, we're going to cut high pensions -- and everything will be fine. I am the representative of the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. We've always voted, we've been initiators of cancelling any benefits, whether it's pension or vice versa. But that ideology: if it reduces high pensions -- and everything gets good -- it's a false ideology. This means that pensioners are stuck in their foreheads, this is Bolshevik ideology: to sow dissension among pensioners. Why? The decline in high pensions will result in an increase of about 400 million to the Pension Fund. This means that each pensioner will receive an allowance of between 17 and 1 in 1 in 1 in 2 20 copies as a result of the cancellation of high pensions. The fourth thesis. We are told that as a result of the adoption of this pension reform, people will receive higher pensions. And Tihypco said yesterday that they're going to get more than 10 percent. If you take an average pension today, 700 dollars, the result is that you get more than 70 dollars, at best. That's what the government says. Thesis five. We're being told, and you just heard that you have to do this because there's no funds to fill the Pension Fund. This is another government lie. These are the specific sources of the pension fund’s replenishment: the cancellation of the pension fund from currency transactions, which gave billions of dollars a year, in other words, to the Pension Fund, and to the financial oligarchs. Only one Livela company didn't pay 3 billion dollars to the Pension Fund. Because of the weak tax code adopted in this room, wages in the shadow sector amount to 120-130 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u167	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u168	Please, yes. And it's clear that counting into the Pension Fund is zero. Thesis Six. [[I'm just finishing up.]] Until then, there will be corruption in this country, no normal pensions can be talked about. Even our prosecutor's office has opened dozens of criminal cases about shutting down schools, where there will now be the offices of the Party of Regions, restaurants, bars and so forth. Colossal retorts, colossal bribes, Tobacco remains in place, that's the pawn that runs the ferret, governs the king, and Timoshenko, who pays people's pensions today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, there are many other people who would like to make an appointment. Vladimir Danilenko, Communist faction. It will be followed by Yuri Sameilenko, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u170	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine! I want to focus on the social protection of citizens in our country and the enforcement of legislation in this area. As a national deputy of Ukraine, as early as 2009, an internal affairs veteran, Anatoly Ustimenko, asked me to help him resolve the issue of the realization of the right to payment, provided for in paragraph 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Military Veterans, the veterans of internal affairs, some others, and their social protection. In his statement, the complainant noted that in 2009, he was treated at the Ministry of Internal Affairs sanatorium on a journey at his own expense. After his treatment, he went to the head office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Sumskia for reimbursement of expenses spent on the way to the sanatorium. Despite the right of a veteran of internal affairs to compensate for lost travel expenses, he was refused. And that's where the fun started. In order to resolve this issue, I have sent a parliamentary appeal to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, requiring that the issue of compensation for the citizen of the township be resolved as a veteran of the internal affairs bodies of the visit to the sanatorium. At my request to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I was informed that the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2010 did not provide for expenditure for the IMF to pay compensation for the travel of retirees. Therefore, there is no legal basis for the Ministry of Internal Affairs to pay compensation to retirees, veterans of internal affairs. After receiving this reply, I sent a delegation letter to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine requesting clarification to address the situation. The Ministry of Finance explained. According to article 63 of the State Budget Act 2010 it was determined that the cost of sanatorium treatment and rest for recovery as well as the free passage of pensioners from the primary lineup. including veterans of internal affairs. is carried out within the Ministry of Internal Affairs accordingly. In view of the foregoing, I was repeatedly sent to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for payment of travel compensation, to which I was denied his legal requirements. Then I decided to use the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine committees, and in January of this year, I sent a parliamentary appeal to the Committee on Law Enforcement, to consider this issue at the meeting. After considering my request for a term violation, four months later, I emphasize that the committee had recommended that I contact the Committee on Veterans and Pensioners. After addressing the committee, I received a further refusal and a recommendation to contact the Committee on National Security and Defence. Funny thing is, after I said so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u171	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u172	Okay. He did not use control functions, and again my address was sent to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In view of what I have said, I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take steps to properly and at the right time react to the committee's call for deputies and to entrust the Committee on National Security and Defence to consider at its meeting the issues of non-compliance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War veterans, veterans of internal affairs and some other persons and social protection by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u173	Thank you. I am instructing you to prepare an appropriate address so that the committee will consider the matter. Welcome to Yuri Sameilenka, faction of the Party of the Regions. It will be followed by a faction of Communists by Vladimir Lechchenko in two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u174	Respectable tellers! Working in the 39 constituency of the Dnepropetrov region, I have received several references to the misuse of commercial banks in the area of debt laundering for loans issued. I stress that it is illegal, since the Ukrainian Act of 22 November 1996 on liability for late payment of monetary obligations provides for a reduction in the pension rate of twofold the National Bank of Ukraine, which is currently 7.75 per cent. In practice, banks involve collectors who do not notify debtors in a timely manner, but self-spent fines in a form that reaches 5 per cent per day, followed by intimidation by day-to-day calls, threats of taking property, apartments and the like. The consequences of such activities are often highlighted in the media. A few examples. In Dnepropetrov region, the family couple committed suicide because of the failure to account with the bank for loans and fines. In Montenegro, for the same reason, a 60-year-old woman jumped into a well. Here's an example. The resident of Sinelnik Panushev, with a small loan debt of 800 grevens, was attacked by a collector's company, which imposed fines of 5 per cent per day, turning 800 bracelets into 11,000 bracelets. And when the claimant received State aid for the birth of a child in the same bank, the bank simply withdrew the money it received without a court decision and notification to the debtor. And there are many such examples. That's enough. Mariupol tried to commit suicide because of a loan. In Ukraine, a family of farmers killed themselves because of a loan. Unpaid credit was the cause of suicide. And there's a lot of these. I am in favour of repaying debts for loans, including by individuals. But here is no place for a winged phrase: "the purpose justifies the means." Banks are more likely to work systematically with debtors who, for objective reasons, cannot pay off the loan in a timely manner. Help find a way out, not choke on financial sanctions. At the same time, they should act exclusively in the legislative field. I have therefore drafted Bill 8621, which provides for the responsibility of commercial banks for violating the provisions of the above-mentioned Act (543), strengthening the supervisory functions of the National Bank of Ukraine for their activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u175	I would like to invite Vladimir Leschenko, who has also been given the floor by the National Deputy Perestenko Marina. Six minutes. He will be followed by Michael Volintz, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u176	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! First of all, there were separate MPs scattered here, without a reason, spilling the dirt of the communists on another occasion, saying that we were going to bury communism. I say, "You can't wait," because Communists always work only for the sake of the working people, and you do the damage. So the diagnosis for savage nationalists is "a severe incurable mental illness -- foam from the mouth and all that. " The other one. June 22 in Ukraine is a sad date – 70 years from the start of the Great Homeland War. On Tuesday, June 14, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed the draft of the 2011 Ukrainian Proclamation Order – The Year of Death in the Great War of 1941-1945. Which could be more sacred than the memory of those who at the cost of their lives have protected our Fatherland from the enslavement of German-fascist invaders of those who have innocently fallen victim to the brown plague of beasts in human form. And even though the memory of those who died in the Great Homeland War is constantly in our hearts, it would be right to announce 2011, a year of 70 years with the beginning of the war, a year of memory of the dead. But in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there were many national deputies who did not care about our predecessors who lost the most precious of all in this bloodbath — life. Only 221 national deputies voted in favour of the decision, including a faction of 181, Communists 25, NS-4, Reforms for the Future 7, non-fractional-4. No vote was given by the faction "BUT-"Batyshkina" and the People's Party, headed by the Supreme Council of Lithuania. Shame on those deputies! Montenegro became the center of the guerrilla movement in 1941-1943. Fascist invaders were unable to destroy organized resistance. In a rage of rage and powerlessness, the Nazis resorted to shameful terror against civilians. In the area of 2 years of occupation, 127 thousand old people, women, and children were destroyed. The village of Koryukowka was particularly affected. The punitive action of the Nazis on March 1, 2, and 9, 1943, is unprecedented, even on a worldwide scale. If 149 people were killed in the world-renowned Belarusian Huttin by Hitlerites, 320 in the Czech Lidice, 642 in the French Oradur-sur-Glan, Koryukowka lost about 7,000 in March 1943. On the morning of March 1, 1943, an Essene punitive squad arrived from the city of Coryukowka. The town was surrounded. Locals, as documented, were evicted from their homes on the outskirts. And in the center, 50, 100 people were in the theater, the restaurant, the land department, and they were shot. At the same time, the Nazi executioners combed all the homes so as not to leave any living witnesses. The sound of the fire was seen in St., Sosnica, and Holmach. The corulers were ferocious for two days. On March 9, the survivors and those who returned home from neighboring villages and forests returned. In view of this and the magnitude of the tragedy, I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine prepare proposals for a legislative proclamation on March 2, the Day of Remembering the City of Koryukowka, as well as all the Nazi-destroyed population sites of Ukraine, all those killed in the occupied territory during the Great War. Please consider my statement in this section as a request to Prime Minister Mikoli Janović Azarov of Ukraine. Third. Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted in its first reading a shameful, antinational project on pension reform. To continue to abuse the people of Ukraine, representatives of the major capital from the factions of the Party of the Regions, the People’s Party, and the Reforms for the Future are united. We have witnessed 20 years of such reforms. But they were all to the detriment of the common people. Consider the reform of the form of ownership. All the property was in the hands of the oligarchs. The reform of the agro-industrial complex has been destroyed. The 2004 pension reform was a balance. Or today’s reforms. Health - it is the people of rural areas who will die from the fact that they will not be cured. A labor code is being prepared for a simple man, a worker, to become a slave. The Housing Codex is to throw all the common people out on the street. And pension reform is a reduction in the level of pensions for ordinary people. Let's just take one for example. The average salary in Ukraine as a basis for retirement at the age of 1 year. It has been proposed in this bill for the past three years. Loss of pension for a simple person 100 bucks a month. How Can I Fill the Pension Fund? The Communists proposed the nationalization of strategic industries and businesses, the withdrawal from the shadow of pay in envelopes, the state monopoly on foreign trade, the state monopoly on liquor and tobacco products. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will never support such a shameful anti-national, so-called pension reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u177	Please prepare an appropriate request for the Prime Minister, who was mentioned by the National MP. I'd like to invite Michael Wolintz, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." It will be followed by John Popescu, a faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u178	Dignified TV setters, respected radio audiences, respected citizens of the city of Mariupola! I was addressed in writing by representatives of the Ukrainian Union of Women's Women's Union for the future of children. They are concerned that the session of the City Council of Mariupol decided to organize a special music school and, in fact, to close the school. The authors of the talk point out, so talented, so capable of living, people, children in Donbas, they point out that among the graduates of this school are aspirants, soloists, performers, artists of the leading world orchestras, and so forth. And the authorities today do not take these circumstances into account, these achievements of the school. The authors point out that the musical schools in the center of the city, which belong to the music school and where the music school is located, are interested in certain local oligarchs. For my part, given that I do not have enough time right now to finally highlight this subject, I will make a written appeal to all the institutions and we will, along with you, the distinguished mariopolitans, fight to preserve this music school. And the next. The most harrowing issue that has been discussed in Parliament over the years is the issue of pension reform yesterday. What I'm saying is that the authorities have done these things today when there's an extra 2 to 2.5 people in the workplace who just won't be able to work productively. At the same time, one and a half million young people, young people, graduates of schools, institutions, and vocational schools will be out of work. At the same time, I'm stressing that we have 60 percent of the economy working today in the shadows. We could have an additional tax collection of 100 billion! Of these, more than 40 billion will go to the Pension Fund. But the authorities are not going to fight corruption today because it is in this corruption. And the people who are in power today, the people who have set up our oligarchs, have done nothing to gain Ukraine's independence. They fought against Ukraine’s independence. And I urge, I call upon all the inhabitants, all the people, the working people today to boycott the behavior, the actions of this authority. I propose on a mental level that we include all our actions, all my thoughts in order for the authorities to realize that it has made very big mistakes! That we can't all support this power together! That the authorities would take such action simply to take off. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u179	I invite John Popescu, the faction of the Party of the Regions. It will be followed by Vladimir Kaplienko, the Reform Group for the Future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u180	Thank you. The sand. The faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to inform the voters of the Stražinetské, Glubické and Novoselické districts who addressed me on the strengthening of the banks of the Prut, Siret and Siritzel rivers and the restoration of the destroyed bridges in the villages: Sucheveni, Ježivci, Krasnoylski, and others. I report that, as a result of my appeals, including from the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s rostrum, the Law on Change to Ukraine’s 2011 State Budget to Overcome Floods in the Dniester, Prute and Siret River Basins has added 100 million dollars. As a result, I turn to Minfin, Minecology, Ukraine, the Chernobyl District Administration to allocate appropriate funding, including the restoration of bridges in the villages of Suchevena, Ježivci, Krasnoylski and the strengthening of the banks of the Prut River in Magali, the Siret River in Jordanesti, the Siritzel River in Lower and Upper Petrovice. Dear colleagues, I also report that in the Chernobyl area, on 12-13 June, measures were taken to honor the 70th anniversary of the beginning of the mass deportation of a part of the civilian population from the territories of the modern Hertzian region, the Glubeck, the Novoselic region, the Stóžinetsky region and other areas. I'll just give you a few digits. Only a thousand 996 persons were deported from the territory of the Hertzai district on June 13, 1941, and 569 persons were deported from the village of Magala on that day. In my hometown is a monument to those who did not return from deportation and suffered during and after the war. And there were more than 300 such innocent villagers. Following the insistence of the inter-regional association of the "Romanian Community of Ukraine" I made this message in order to honor the memory of those who did not return from deportation to their homelands. And the last. Since the amendments to the State Budget Act 2011 have already been adopted, and in view of my repeated previous appeals, including from the Supreme Council's rostrum, I refer to the Ministry of Culture of the Montenegrin District State Administration, to the Watch Tower State District Administration to consider allocating funds for the celebration of the 600th anniversary of the first written mention of the village of Lower Petrovci under the previous name of the village. Siritzel, scheduled to be celebrated on the day of the village on August 28, 2011. Thank you, and please consider my speech a question of the MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u181	Please prepare an appropriate parliamentary request. I'd like to invite Vladimir Kaplienka, a group of Reforms for the Future. He will be followed by Yuri Gnatkewa, "BUT is "The Fatherland". Please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, do you know that there is a unique sanatorium in Saki called Burdenka, which, starting in 1974, has treated spinach disabled people. And at the same time, these people come here not only from Ukraine, but from all the post-Radians space. This is the only sanatorium that has the appropriate infrastructure to treat first - group and disabled persons with disabilities. Each year, more than 10,000 patients are expected to receive treatment in this sanatorium. This sanatorium is well - known not only in Ukraine but also abroad, and it is a brand of Ukraine in this direction. This may have been the reason for the decision of the management of the FPU to transfer the name of Mikola Burdenka to the Social Insurance Fund for industrial accidents and occupational diseases. But the relevance of this step is argued by the management of the FPA as if financial resources were needed for the development of the sanatorium. Yet, that is not the case. The sanatorium today, to date, has not suffered, has not suffered and has increased by 15 per cent in 2010, and to the local budget is paid just this year for 1 million dollars more than in 2009, i.e. the trend exists, and it is increasing. By the end of 2010, the company's balance sheet profit was almost 1.4 million dollars, 700,000 more than in 2009. On June 2, 2011, a working group of the Burdenk sanatorium was held with the participation of representatives of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, public organizations, spinach disabled persons and the Government of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In the congregations, representatives of the labour group of the Burdenk sanatorium and the organization of spinner disabled expressed indignation and fear that in the event of the transfer of the sanatorium of the Social Insurance Fund there is a real threat to its sale, such as earlier with such sanatoriums as "Golden Beach", "Sacropolis", "Energy" which have ceased to exist today, and the territories are privately owned. In summary, the labour force and representatives of the organization of spinners with disabilities expressed support from the government of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the need to preserve Burdenk's sanatorium as a professional medical institution. To that end, he appealed to the leadership of the State. Given the real threat of losing Burdenk's sanatorium, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" group. they request the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikli Azarov, to take comprehensive measures to preserve the Burdenko sanatorium, including by changing its form of ownership to state property. Please consider my statement as a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, for which I ask you, High Commissioner Milo Volodymyrovich, as presiding officer, to present the relevant orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u183	Please prepare an appropriate request. I'd like to invite Yuri Gnatkiewich, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." And he's gonna finish the hour of "Virgin" Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u184	Dear compatriots! I was present and there were 33 Ukrainian national deputies at the last court in the Kyiv Court of Appeal, where the complaint against Yulia Timoshenko was heard. I thought there was no one in this state to judge? Are there not those who have ripped the whole state apart? Stealing factories and factories by fraud? They don't touch them. They're judging Julia Timoshenko and Lucenka. But that's not what I'm talking about. I took note of one situation. If Julia Volodymyrna, her lawyer, was very detailed, told in detail and reasoned on her position, the prosecutor said only two sentences: she could not see the reasons. Two sentences were said by the judge: he sees no reason. Please tell us, if Julia Timoshenko, behind whom a huge party, is a huge faction behind whose decision the European Parliament has made, a huge number. millions of voters who feel sorry for her, if she cannot protect herself, how can she defend herself in our court of law as a mere human being? And here in Simferopol, he was convicted of the murder of a drug dealer in Simferopol, who he allegedly committed 13 years ago. 13 years ago! Mikola Yuriovich did not confess or confess his guilt. Now it's as if the Supreme Special Court has accepted a cassation complaint, despite what I know, against the side of the Simferopol District Court of Lenin, where Judge Billowsov has not allowed lawyers to look into the case to see what pages the violation is on. I'm not going to talk about it in essence, so I'm not being accused of exerting pressure. The essence of the matter is expressed by lawyers and experts in public for days. But as a witness, I want to be heard: Two times my wife, Mikli Yuriovich, asked me to borrow 15,000 euros. And she said it was a guarantee that Santa would come out. And I know that before that, as she asked, she was already giving bribes, and in court, Nicholas himself finally said, "So you gave me 10 years for not giving you 15,000 euros?" The judge was indignant. "I," he says, "will figure out who's making that point." And the indignation of the matter did not go away. The court only printed what the police had written. The Court did not enforce our Criminal Code, which obliges it to take all legal measures for a comprehensive, complete and objective study. No procedural request and no procedural request.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u185	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u186	On the other hand, the court did not hear them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u187	Thank you. Before you know it, I invite Yuri Carmazin and we'll be done with that. One. Yuri Anatolyevich, ask you to join us in two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, on June 3, in the session, I was asked to check the illegal rental of the private VAT Lemtrans, which has been headed by Kozak since March 2011, the same one that was appointed by the Director General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine's Cruise Station, please consider the freight wagons of the Koper class for the transport of grain, which costs hundreds of millions of dollars to the State, the artificial price increase for transportation, the winding up of measures for the return of wagons to the property of the state and the resolution of the question of the appropriateness of the occupied position of Kozak. What do you think is a criminal case committed by the Attorney General's Office or the Security Service? No, nothing's done. As soon as the request was made, I was approached by dozens of leaders and chiefs of trains, traveling brigades, and asked to help with the creation of a comprehensive commission for the settlement of labour disputes between the DP "Ukrzalznica" administration and the labour teams of the travel brigades, which resulted from the withdrawal of the order of Director "Ukrzlizaznica" No. 185 from 11 May 2011, which is called "To approve the procedure for the use of automated selection system for vacant jobs of travel crews and the procedure for the use of the automated system for the formation of travel brigades." This directive grossly violates the labour rights of members of the travel brigades, inflicts significant material damage on the State and addresses the issue of bringing the order into line with the interests of the labour force. The point is that people are obliged to produce foreign passports and completely all the leaders and supervisors, some 14,000 people. And then, by chance, they're going to choose to do it to fight corruption. Dear National Deputies! Respectable citizens! Over the course of a hundred years, all the travel brigades that drive so-called hares will not bring as much damage to the state as the corruption schemes that I've been talking about today. Because of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u189	Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u190	To sum up, Your Honor Milo Volodymyrovich, please consider my statement to the Attorney-General, the head of the Government of Mikli Azarov, the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council. And I ask you to take steps to lift the illegal order and to stop the corruption on the railway that leads to the price hike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-17-m0.u191	Thank you. Please prepare appropriate queries. Dear colleagues and respected TV viewers, I would like to brief you. Because the media does not adequately explain the situation at our meeting. After a speech by a representative of the Communist Party, who, in a mild sense, did not adequately comment on the state symbolism, the national MP Lazko spoke in defense of the fact that state symbols cannot be insulted or appreciated by members of any faction. It was a matter of protecting the nation’s national representative, Lášk, of symbolism. By the way, as the author of the bill with Vladimir Moysik, and the Supreme Council voted in favour of this bill, we found that the abuse of Ukraine's State symbols was punishable, including criminal responsibility. So I wanted the journalists here to be valid, to protect state symbols. At the same time, I stress that the next plenary session will take place on Tuesday, July 5, at 10 a.m. The day before, July 4 at 11 p.m., Conciliation Council. The "Variance" hour is over. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
